Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The reader should carefully review and consider the risk factors discussed below. Any and all of these risk factors could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows and possibly lead to a decline in Lydall’s stock price. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below constitute all material risk factors known to management as of the date of this report. Uncertainty in the global economy may continue to negatively impact Lydall’s business – Uncertainty in the global economy has, and could continue to adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and impact profitability. Among other factors, disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, swings in consumer confidence and spending, unstable economic growth and fluctuations in unemployment rates has caused economic instability that had, and could continue to have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and make it difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. The global economy is volatile, affected in part by the risk of debt default by certain European countries. The Company’s foreign and export sales were 49.9% of net sales in 2011, 50.7% in 2010 and 50.8% in 2009. If the global economy were to take a significant downturn, depending on the length, duration and severity of such downturn, the Company’s business and financial statements could be adversely affected. The Company’s Thermal/Acoustical segment is tied to general economic and automotive industry conditions – The Company’s Thermal/Acoustical segment, a supplier in the automotive market, accounted for approximately 62% of consolidated net sales in 2011. Approximately 56% of segment net sales were from products manufactured in North America and 44% were manufactured in Europe. This segment is tied to general economic and automotive industry conditions as demand for vehicles depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit and the cost of fuel. These factors have had and could continue to have a substantial impact on the business. Adverse developments could reduce demand for new vehicles, causing Lydall’s customers to reduce their vehicle production in North America and Europe and, as a result, demand for Company products would be adversely affected. The Company’s quarterly operating results may fluctuate. As a result, the Company may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline – The Company’s quarterly results are subject to significant fluctuations. Operating results have fluctuated as a result of many factors, including size and timing of orders and shipments, loss of significant customers, product mix, technological change, operational efficiencies and inefficiencies, competition, changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and general economic conditions. In addition, lower revenues may cause asset utilization to decrease, resulting in the under absorption of the Company’s fixed costs, which could negatively impact gross margins. Additionally, the Company’s gross margins vary among its product groups and have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of shifts in product mix. Any and all of these factors could affect the Company’s business, financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows and possibly lead to a decline in Lydall’s stock price. Implementation of our strategic initiatives may not be successful – As part of Lydall’s business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and to assess the profitability and growth potential for each of its existing businesses. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any recent or future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Future performance could be impacted by the Company’s ability to: ·Identify and effectively complete strategic transactions; ·Obtain adequate financing to fund strategic initiatives, which could be difficult to obtain; and ·Successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses that involve numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, managing assets in multiple geographic regions and potential loss of key employees and key customers of acquired operations. Future performance may also be impacted by the Company’s ability to improve operating margins under its Lean Six Sigma initiatives. The Lean Six Sigma program is intended to improve processes and work flow, improve customer service, reduce costs and leverage synergies across the Company to improve operating margins. 7 In order to meet its strategic objectives, the Company may also divest assets and/or businesses. Successfully executing such a strategy depends on various factors, including effectively transferring assets, liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, identifying and separating the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that the Company wishes to retain, reducing or eliminating fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and collecting the proceeds from any divestitures. Raw material pricing and supply issues could affect all of the Company’s businesses – The Thermal/Acoustical segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most of its automotive heat shields. The Thermal/Acoustical and Performance Materials segments use various fibers in manufacturing products. If the prices of these raw materials, or any other raw materials, increase, the Company may not have the ability to pass incremental cost increases on to its customers. In addition, an interruption in the ability of the Company to source materials could negatively impact operations and sales. If the Company’s goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, it may be required to record a significant charge to earnings – The Company reviews its intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is also tested by the Company for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include, but are not limited to, a decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates. The Company’s most recent review of goodwill for potential impairment determined that the Life Sciences Vital Fluids reporting unit, with $4.7 million of goodwill, had excess fair value over its carrying value of approximately 4%. Lydall’s results of operations could be adversely affected if the Company is required to record a charge to earnings in its Consolidated Financial Statements because of impairment of its goodwill or other intangible assets. The Company’s ability to accurately report its financial results may be adversely affected by the lack of effective internal controls and procedures – At December 31, 2011, the Company had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation and filing of the third quarter 2011 Form 10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of September 30, 2011 because of a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting related to the accounting for income taxes associated with a foreign subsidiary. This matter is more fully described in Item 4 of the Form 10-Q filed on November 8, 2011. As described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management believes that at December 31, 2011, enhancements have been made to strengthen the disclosure controls and procedures. Because the reliability of the internal control process requires repeatable execution, the successful remediation of this material weakness will require review and evidence of effectiveness prior to management concluding that the controls are now effective. Some of the enhancements that have been implemented by management in the fourth quarter of 2011 have not been in place for a sufficient period of time to demonstrate that their effectiveness is sustainable. Until management is able to ensure the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, the material weakness may materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to report accurately its financial information in a timely and reliable manner. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase Lydall’s costs and funding for its domestic defined benefit pension plan – The Company’s domestic defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets may affect the funded status and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements. A significant increase in benefit plan liabilities or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial statements. The Company is involved with certain legal proceedings and may become involved in future legal proceedings all of which could give rise to liability – The Company is involved in legal proceedings that, from time to time, may be material. These proceedings may include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, shareholder claims, and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. 8 Changes in tax rates and exposure to additional income tax liabilities – The Company is subject to risks with respect to changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that may be in process in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. Changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on Lydall’s overall effective tax rate. Realization of deferred tax assets is not assured – The Company maintains valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not reasonably assured. The Company evaluates the likelihood of the realization of all deferred tax assets and reduces the carrying amount to the extent it believes a portion will not be realized. Changes in these assessments can result in an increase or reduction to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and could have a significant impact on the Company’s overall effective tax rate. The Company’s future success depends upon its ability to continue to innovate, improve its products, develop and market new products, and identify and enter new markets – Improved performance and growth are partially dependent on new product introductions planned for the future. Delays in developing products and long customer qualification cycles may impact the success of new product programs. The degree of success of new product programs could impact the Company’s future results. The Company’s international operations expose it to business, economic, political, legal and other risks – The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant international operations. Foreign sales were $144.5 million, $119.5 million and $94.8 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. International operations are subject to inherent risks including political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the Company’s results of operations – The Company’s primary currency exposure is to the Euro. The Company’s foreign and domestic operations seek to limit foreign currency exchange transaction risk by completing transactions in functional currencies whenever practical or through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts when deemed appropriate. If the Company does not successfully hedge its currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between these currencies and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the Company. Additionally, translation of the results of operations and financial condition of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. The Company receives a material portion of its revenue from foreign operations. The Company’s manufacturing processes are subject to inherent risk – The Company operates a number of manufacturing facilities and relies upon an effective workforce and properly performing machinery and equipment. The workforce may experience a relatively high turnover rate, causing inefficiencies associated with retraining and rehiring. The equipment and systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, possibly causing higher manufacturing costs. Manufacturing processes affect the Company’s ability to deliver quality products on a timely basis, and delays in delivering products to customers could result in the Company incurring penalties from customers. Increases in energy pricing can affect all of the Company’s businesses – Higher energy costs at the Company’s manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company’s vendors could impact the Company’s profitability. The Company’s resources are limited and may impair its ability to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing – The industries in which Lydall sells its products are highly competitive and many of the competitors are affiliated with entities that are substantially larger and that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. The Company’s more limited resources and relatively diverse product mix may limit or impair its ability to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing. The Company’s products may fail to perform as expected, subjecting it to warranty or other claims from its customers – If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, FDA product recalls and other claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows. If Lydall does not retain its key employees, the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy could be adversely affected – The Company’s success, in part, depends on key managerial, engineering, sales and marketing and technical personnel and its ability to continue to attract and retain additional personnel. The loss of certain key personnel could have a material, adverse effect upon the Company's business and results of operations. There is no assurance that Lydall can retain its key employees or that it can attract competent and effective new or replacement personnel in the future. 9 The Company’s current reserve levels may not be adequate to cover potential exposures – Estimates and assumptions may affect the reserves that the Company has established to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, income tax valuation and fair market value write downs of certain assets and various liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations, that could increase its expense and affect operating results – The Company is subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that affect operations. New and changing environmental laws and regulations may impact the products manufactured by Lydall and sold to customers. In order to maintain compliance with such laws and regulations, Lydall must devote significant resources and maintain and administer adequate policies, procedures and oversight. Should the Company fail to do these things, it could be negatively impacted by lower net sales, fines, legal costs, and clean-up requirements. The Company may be unable to adequately protect its intellectual property, which may limit its ability to compete effectively – Lydall owns intellectual property, including patents and trademarks, which play an important role in helping the Company to maintain its competitive position in a number of markets. The Company is subject to risks with respect to (i) changes in the intellectual property landscape of markets in which it competes; (ii) the potential assertion of intellectual property-related claims against Lydall; (iii) the failure to maximize or successfully assert its intellectual property rights; and (iv) significant technological developments by others. Disruptions may occur to the Company’s operations relating to information technology – The capacity, reliability and security of the Company’s information technology hardware and software infrastructure and the ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to the Company’s changing needs are important to the operation of the businesses. In response to a review of its IT infrastructure, the Company has undertaken a project to upgrade its ERP system. The deployment, implementation and integration to a new version of its ERP system may not be managed in an efficient, timely and cost effective manner resulting in greater than anticipated costs and other operating difficulties. Also, any inadequacy, interruption, loss of data, integration failure or security failure of the Company’s technology could harm Lydall’s ability to effectively operate its business, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. The Company could be subject to work stoppages or other business interruptions as a result of its unionized work force – A portion of the Company’s hourly employees are represented by various union locals and covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements contain various expiration dates and must be renegotiated upon expiration. Specifically, four union contracts expiring on March 31, 2012 represent approximately 70 employees in the United States. If the Company is unable to negotiate any of its collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms prior to expiration, the Company could experience disruptions in its operations which could have a material adverse effect on operations. The Company may not have adequate cash to fund its operating requirements – The principal source of the Company’s liquidity is operating cash flows. In addition to operating cash flows, other significant factors that affect the overall management of liquidity include capital expenditures, investments in businesses, acquisitions, income tax payments, pension funding, outcomes of contingencies and availability of lines of credit and long-term financing. The Company’s liquidity can be impacted by the Company’s ability to: ·Manage working capital and the level of future profitability. The consolidated cash balance is impacted by capital equipment and inventory investments that may be made in response to changing market conditions; ·Satisfy covenants and other obligations under its Domestic Credit Facility, which could limit or prohibit Lydall’s ability to borrow funds. Additionally, these debt covenants and other obligations could limit the Company’s ability to make acquisitions, incur additional debt, make investments, or consummate asset sales; and ·Obtain additional financing from other sources. 10 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 