Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and a loss of all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The current severe worldwide economic slowdown may negatively affect our sales and the business of our suppliers, which would materially adversely affect our profitability and revenue growth. Our revenue and profitability depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for the electronic components in which our products are used. Economic weakness and constrained spending in the electronics industry may result in severe business downturns or interruptions for our customers. As a result, we may experience decreased revenue and extraordinary price pressure from our customers, negatively affecting our margins and profitability. Our revenue and profitability also depend on the business of our suppliers. Economic weakness affecting our suppliers may make them unable or unwilling to continue supplying us with components and materials at reasonable prices or at all, requiring us to use additional resources to find alternative sources of components and materials. As a result, we may experience increased expenses, negatively affecting our margins and profitability. 9 We had operating losses in 2008 and 2007 and are uncertain as to our ability to return to profitability. We had a loss from continuing operations of $1,303,000 in 2008 and a loss of $1,713,000 in 2007. We are uncertain when or if we will generate sufficient revenues to return to operating profitability. We will need to renew or replace our existing credit facilities and may need to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations which may be especially difficult in the current economic environment. Our credit facilities include a revolving credit facility that currently terminates on June 30, 2009 and a term loan with a October 1, 2010 maturity date. At March 27, 2009, there was $1,529,000 of indebtedness outstanding under the revolving credit facility and $2,796,000 principal amount of indebtedness under the term loan. We will need to renew or replace such credit facilities as they expire or if they otherwise become unavailable, and we may require additional financing in order to fund our operations. We may be unable to renew our existing credit facilities, find replacement facilities, or obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, which may result in delays in payments to our vendors and in our ordinary measures to repair, replace or improve upon existing infrastructure, and may cause our customers to lose confidence in our ability to supply high-quality products in a timely manner. Recently, the capital and credit markets have become increasingly tight as a result of adverse economic conditions. If such conditions persist and funds are not readily available, it is likely that our ability to access capital and credit markets will remain limited. In addition, if current global economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen substantially, our business may suffer in a manner that could cause us to fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing credit facilities. Under certain of our existing credit facilities, we are required to obtain the lenders’ consent for most additional debt financing, potentially making it more difficult for us to obtain such financing. As a holding company, we depend on the operations of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company that transacts business through our operating subsidiaries. Our primary assets are the shares of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our operating requirements and to make other payments depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds. Payments of dividends and advances and repayments of inter-company debt by our subsidiaries are restricted by our credit agreements. We are dependent on a single line of business. We are currently dedicated to manufacturing and marketing custom designed highly engineered electronic components that are used primarily to control the frequency or timing of signals in electronic circuits, and we do not offer any other products. Given our reliance on this single line of business, unfavorable market conditions affecting that line of business would likely have a disproportionate impact on us in comparison with certain competitors, who have more diversified operations and multiple lines of business. Should this line of business fail to generate sufficient sales to support ongoing operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop alternate business lines. As was the case in 2007, virtually all of MtronPTI’s 2008 revenues from continuing operations came from sales of frequency control devices, which consist of packaged quartz crystals, oscillator modules and electronic filters. We expect that this product line will continue to account for substantially all of MtronPTI’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Any decline in demand for this product line or failure to achieve continued market acceptance of existing and new versions of this product line may harm MtronPTI’s business and our financial condition. We may make acquisitions that are not successful or fail to properly integrate acquired businesses into our operations. To the extent we are able to secure the necessary financing, we intend to explore opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or product lines or that 10 might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty finding such opportunities or, if we do identify such opportunities, we may not be able to complete such transactions for reasons including a failure to secure necessary financing. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: · the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; · possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; · substantial acquisition related expenses, which would reduce our net income, if any, in future years; · the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and · our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. If we are unable to introduce innovative products, demand for our products may decrease. Our future operating results are dependent on our ability to continually develop, introduce and market innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change and to customize some of our products to meet customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely or cost-effective manner to satisfy customer demand. Our business is cyclical. A decline in demand in the electronic component industry may result in order cancellations and deferrals and lower average selling prices for our products. Our subsidiaries sell to industries that are subject to cyclical economic changes. The Company principally sells to customers within the telecommunications, military and aerospace industries that produce products with an expected business life ranging from less than one year to more than 10 years depending on their application. The electronic component industry in general, and specifically the Company, could experience a decline in product demand on a global basis, resulting in order cancellations and deferrals and lower average selling prices. A slowing of growth in the demand for components used by telecommunications infrastructure manufacturers could lead to a decline. If a slowdown occurs, it may continue and may become more pronounced. Our market is highly competitive, and we may lose business to larger and better-financed competitors. Our market is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. We compete principally on the basis of product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, technological innovation, timely delivery and price. Within the industry in which we compete, competition has become increasingly concentrated and global in recent years. Our major competitors, some of which are larger than us, and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities than we have. 11 Our success depends on our ability to retain our key management and technical personnel and attracting, retaining, and training new technical personnel. Our future growth and success will depend in large part upon our ability to recruit highly skilled technical personnel, including engineers, and to retain our existing management and technical personnel. The labor markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our operations are not located in highly populated areas. As a result, we may not be able to recruit and retain key personnel. Our failure to hire, retain or adequately train key personnel could have a negative impact on our performance. We found a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2008. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A(T), “Controls and Procedures,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2008 due to a material weakness related to our information technology applications and infrastructure. Our failure to successfully implement our plans to remediate this material weakness could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, to produce timely and reliable financial information, and to effectively prevent fraud. Additionally, such failure could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and stock price. For a detailed discussion of measures we took to remediate previously identified material weaknesses and our plans for remediat ing our single remaining material weakness, please see Part II, Item 9A(T), “Controls and Procedures,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Compliance with changing corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and the rules of NYSE Amex, formerly known as the American Stock Exchange, requires a substantial amount of management attention and financial and other resources. We intend to continue to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, which may result in increased general and administrative expenses and divert management from revenue-generating activities. The Company is considered a non-accelerated filer and has not been required to obtain an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the Company becomes required to obtain an attestation report regarding its internal control over financial reporting, which is currently scheduled to occur starting with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, the Company believes that the additional cost incurred to obtain this attestation would have a material effect on the Company. MtronPTI’s backlog may not be indicative of future revenues. MtronPTI’s backlog comprises orders that are subject to specific production release orders under written contracts, oral and written orders from customers with which MtronPTI has had long-standing relationships and written purchase orders from sales representatives. MtronPTI’s customers may order components from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when backlog is particularly long and may cancel or defer orders without significant penalty. They often cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive, a phenomenon that MtronPTI previously experienced in the most recent preceding economic slowdown. As a result, MtronPTI’s backlog as of any particular date may not be representative of actual revenues for any succeeding period. 12 MtronPTI relies upon one contract manufacturer for a significant portion of its finished products, and a disruption in its relationship could have a negative impact on MtronPTI’s revenues. In 2008, approximately 12.7% of MtronPTI’s revenue was attributable to finished products that were manufactured by an independent contract manufacturer located in both Korea and China (15.7% in 2007). We expect this manufacturer to account for a smaller but substantial portion of MtronPTI’s revenues in 2009 and a material portion of MtronPTI’s revenues for the next several years. MtronPTI does not have a written, long-term supply contract with this manufacturer. If this manufacturer becomes unable to provide products in the quantities needed, or at acceptable prices, MtronPTI would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacement manufacturers or manufacture the products internally. Due to specific product knowledge and process capability, MtronPTI could encounter difficulties in locating, qualifying and entering into arrangements with replacement manufacturers. As a result, a reduction in the production capabil ity or financial viability of this manufacturer, or a termination of, or significant interruption in, MtronPTI’s relationship with this manufacturer, may adversely affect MtronPTI’s results of operations and our financial condition. MtronPTI purchases certain key components from single or limited sources and could lose sales if these sources fail to fulfill our needs. If single source components were to become unavailable on satisfactory terms, and we could not obtain comparable replacement components from other sources in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. On occasion, one or more of the components used in our products have become unavailable, resulting in unanticipated redesign and related delays in shipments. We cannot assure you that similar delays will not occur in the future. Our suppliers may be impacted by compliance with environmental regulations including Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”), which could affect our continued supply of components or cause additional costs for us to implement new components into our manufacturing process. MtronPTI’s products are complex and may contain errors or design flaws, which could be costly to correct. When we release new products, or new versions of existing products, they may contain undetected or unresolved errors or defects. The vast majority of MtronPTI’s products are custom-designed for requirements of specific OEM systems. The expected business life of these products ranges from less than one year to more than 10 years depending on the application. Some of the customizations are modest changes to existing product designs while others are major product redesigns or new product platforms. Despite testing, errors or defects may be found in new products or upgrades after the commencement of commercial shipments. Undetected errors and design flaws have occurred in the past and could occur in the future. These errors could result in delays, loss of market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, legal action by our customers, failure to attract new customers and increased service costs. MtronPTI’s future rate of growth is highly dependent on the development and growth of the market for communications and network equipment. In 2008, the majority of MtronPTI’s revenues were derived from sales to manufacturers of communications and network infrastructure equipment, including indirect sales through distributors and contract manufacturers. In 2009, MtronPTI expects a smaller but significant portion of its revenues to be derived from sales to these manufacturers. Communications and network service providers have experienced periods of capacity shortage and periods of excess capacity. In periods of excess capacity, communications systems and network operators cut purchases of capital equipment, including equipment that incorporates MtronPTI’s products. A slowdown in the manufacture and purchase of communications and network infrastructure equipment could substantially reduce MtronPTI’s net sales and operating results and adversely affect our financial condition. Moreover, if the market for communications or network infrastructure equipment fails to grow as expected, MtronPTI may be unable to maintain or grow its revenue. 13 Communications and network infrastructure equipment manufacturers increasingly rely upon contract manufacturers, thereby diminishing MtronPTI’s ability to sell its products directly to those equipment manufacturers. There is a continuing trend among communications and network infrastructure equipment manufacturers to outsource the manufacturing of their equipment or components. As a result, MtronPTI’s ability to persuade these OEMs to specify our products has been reduced and, in the absence of a manufacturer’s specification of MtronPTI’s products, the prices that MtronPTI can charge for them may be subject to greater competition. MtronPTI’s customers are significantly larger than it and may exert leverage that will not be in the best interest of MtronPTI. The majority of MtronPTI’s sales are to companies that are many times its size. This size differential may disadvantage MtronPTI in negotiating contractual terms. These terms include price, payment terms, product warranties and product consignment obligations. There is a growing trend among some of MtronPTI’s larger customers that MtronPTI provide increased levels of warranty coverage. Some of these changes would require MtronPTI to pay substantial financial penalties if the customer invokes the warranty provision. These additional warranties may result in additional production costs to MtronPTI. In addition, these new warranty provisions may place MtronPTI at a disadvantage in comparison to its competitors and may result in terms that are not in the best interest of MtronPTI. Future changes in MtronPTI’s environmental liability and compliance obligations may increase costs and decrease profitability. MtronPTI’s manufacturing operations, products, and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and other chemicals. In addition, more stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in MtronPTI’s operations that any future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance that would be associated with these regulations. Environmental laws and regulations may cause us to change our manufacturing processes, redesign some of our products, and change components to eliminate some substances in our products in order to be able to continue to offer them for sale. Our significant international operations and sales to customers outside of the United States subject us to certain business, economic and political risks. We have significant office and manufacturing space in Noida, India. Additionally, our 2008 and 2007 export sales (primarily to Malaysia and China) accounted for 56.5% of each of our 2008 and 2007 consolidated revenues, from continuing operations, and we anticipate that sales to customers located outside of the United States will continue to be a significant part of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our international operations and sales to customers outside of the United States subject our operating results and financial condition to certain business, economic, political, health, regulatory and other risks, including: · political and economic instability in countries in which our products are manufactured and sold; · expropriation or the imposition of government controls; · sanctions or restrictions on trade imposed by the United States government; · export license requirements; · trade restrictions; · currency controls or fluctuations in exchange rates; · high levels of inflation or deflation; 14 · greater difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; · changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; and · limitations on insurance coverage against geopolitical risks, natural disasters and business operations. Additionally, to date, very few of our international revenue and cost obligations have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies may affect our competitiveness in foreign markets. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging activities, but may do so in the future to the extent that such obligations become more significant. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has fluctuated considerably and is likely to remain volatile, in part due to the limited market for our common stock. Since January 1, 2007, the high and low bid prices for our common stock were $15.20 and $1.00, respectively. There is a limited public market for our common stock, and we cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop. As a result of low trading volume in our common stock, the purchase or sale of a relatively small number of shares could result in significant share price fluctuations. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: · general economic conditions affecting the availability of long-term or short-term credit facilities, the purchasing and payment patterns of our customers, or the requirements imposed our by suppliers; · economic conditions in our industry and in the industries that typically comprise our customers and suppliers; · changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts relating to our common stock; · loss of a major customer; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and · changes in key personnel Our officers, directors and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may vote their shares in a manner that is not in the best interest of other stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders control approximately 55% of the voting power represented by our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 25, 2009. If these stockholders act together, they may be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware corporate law may prevent or delay a change of control and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (“DGCL”), may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include those: 15 · prohibiting our stockholders from fixing the number of our directors; and · requiring advance notice for stockholders proposals and nominations. We are subject to certain provisions of the DGCL that limit business combination transactions with an “interested stockholder,” as defined by the DGCL, during the first three years of their ownership, absent approval of our board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation and could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 