Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and a loss of all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations and our liquidity. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are dependent on a single line of business. We are currently dedicated to manufacturing and marketing standard and custom-engineered electronic components that are used primarily to control the frequency or timing of signals in electronic circuits, and we do not offer any other products. Virtually all of MtronPTI's 2012 and 2011 revenues came from sales of frequency control devices, which consist of packaged quartz crystals, oscillator modules, electronic filters and integrated modules. We expect that this product line will continue to account for substantially all of MtronPTI's revenues in 2013. Given our reliance on this single line of business, any decline in demand for this product line or failure to achieve continued market acceptance of existing and new versions of this product line may harm MtronPTI's business and our financial condition. Additionally, unfavorable market conditions affecting this line of business would likely have a disproportionate impact on us in comparison with certain competitors, who have more diversified operations and multiple lines of business. Should this line of business fail to generate sufficient sales to support ongoing operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop alternate business lines. Our operating results vary significantly from period to period. We experience fluctuations in our operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations include: changes in demand for our products; our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, costs and inventory; our effectiveness in engineering and qualifying new product designs with our OEM customers and in managing the risks associated with bringing those new products into production; changes in the cost and availability of raw materials, which often occur in the electronics manufacturing industry and which affect our margins and our ability to meet delivery schedules; macroeconomic and served industry conditions; and events that may affect our production capabilities, such as labor conditions and political instability. In addition, due to the prevailing economic climate and competitive differences between the various market segments which we serve, the mix of sales between our communications, networking, military, avionics, industrial and instrumentation market segments may affect our operating results from period to period. We had a net loss in 2012, and we are uncertain as to our ability to return to profitability. We had a net loss of ($1,320,000) for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our revenues are derived solely from our operating subsidiary, MtronPTI, and its future rate of growth and profitability are highly dependent on the development and growth of demand for our products in the communications, networking, military, avionics, instrumentation and industrial markets, which are cyclical. We cannot be certain whether we will generate sufficient revenues or sufficiently manage expenses to return to profitability. We have a large customer that accounts for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of this customer, or decrease in their demand for our products, could have a material adverse effect on our results. In 2012, MtronPTI's largest customer, an electronics contract manufacturing company, accounted for $2,914,000, or 9.8%, of the Company's total revenues, compared to $3,680,000, or 10.3%, in 2011. The loss of this customer, or a decrease in their demand for our products, could have a material adverse effect on our results. 7 A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable, and the insolvency of any of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. In 2012, MtronPTI's three largest customers accounted for approximately $1,880,000, or 42.4%, of accounts receivable, compared to approximately $1,441,000, or 33.4%, as compared to 2011. The insolvency of any of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. MtronPTI's order backlog may not be indicative of future revenues. MtronPTI's order backlog comprises orders that are subject to specific production release, orders under written contracts, oral and written orders from customers with which MtronPTI has had long-standing relationships and written purchase orders from sales representatives. MtronPTI's customers may order components from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when backlog is particularly long and may cancel or defer orders without significant penalty. They also may cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive. As a result, the Company cannot provide assurances as to the portion of backlog orders to be filled in a given year, and MtronPTI's order backlog as of any particular date may not be representative of actual revenues for any subsequent period. We are a holding company, and therefore are dependent upon the operations of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company that transacts business through our operating subsidiaries. Our primary assets are the shares of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our operating requirements and to make other payments depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to the Company is subject to certain limitations under our existing credit facility. MtronPTI relies upon a limited number of contract manufacturers for a significant portion of its finished products, and a disruption in those relationships could have a negative impact on our revenues. In 2012, approximately 15.4% of our revenue was attributable to finished products that were manufactured by an independent contract manufacturer with production locations in both Korea and China (as compared to 14.7% in 2011). We expect this manufacturer to continue to account for a similar portion of our total revenue in 2013 and the next several years. We do not have a written, long-term supply contract with this manufacturer. If this manufacturer becomes unable to provide products in the quantities needed, or at acceptable prices, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacement manufacturers or manufacture the products internally. Due to specific product knowledge and process capability, we could encounter difficulties in locating, qualifying and entering into arrangements with replacement manufacturers. As a result, a reduction in the production capability or financial viability of this manufacturer, or a termination of, or significant interruption in, our relationship with this manufacturer, may adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. MtronPTI's future rate of growth and profitability are highly dependent on the development and growth of the communications, networking, military, avionics, instrumentation and industrial markets, which are cyclical. In 2012, the majority of MtronPTI's revenues were derived from sales to manufacturers of equipment for the communications, networking, military, avionics, instrumentation and industrial markets for frequency control devices, including indirect sales through distributors and contract manufacturers. In 2013, MtronPTI expects a significant portion of its revenues to continue to be derived from sales to these manufacturers. Often OEMs and other service providers within these markets have experienced periods of capacity shortage and periods of excess capacity, as well as periods of either high or low demand for their products. In periods of excess capacity or low demand, purchases of capital equipment may be curtailed, including equipment that incorporates MtronPTI's products. A slowdown, whether due to cyclical, macroeconomic or other factors, in the manufacture and purchase of equipment for these markets could substantially reduce MtronPTI's net sales and operating results and adversely affect our financial condition. Moreover, if these markets fail to grow as expected, MtronPTI may be unable to maintain or grow its revenue. 8 The multiple variables which affect the communications, networking, military, avionics, instrumentation and industrial markets for equipment that require frequency control devices, as well as the number of parties involved in the supply chain and manufacturing process, can impact inventory levels and lead to supply chain inefficiencies. As a result of these complexities, MtronPTI has limited visibility to forecast revenue projections accurately for the near and medium-term timeframes. Market share of frequency control devices with equipment manufacturers in the communications, networking, military, avionics, instrumentation and industrial markets may change over time, reducing the value of our relationships with our existing customer base. We have developed long-term relationships with our existing customers, including pricing contracts, custom designs and approved vendor status. If these customers lose share to equipment manufacturers in the communications, networking, military, avionics, instrumentation and industrial markets with whom we do not have similar relationships, our ability to maintain revenue, margin or operating performance may be adversely affected. We may make acquisitions that are not successful, or we may fail to integrate acquired businesses into our operations properly. We intend to explore opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or product lines, or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty finding such opportunities or, if such opportunities are identified, we may not be able to complete such transactions for reasons including a failure to secure necessary financing. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: ‒ The diversion of our management's attention from the management of our existing business to the integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; ‒ Due diligence may not identify material business risks; ‒ Possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; ‒ Substantial acquisition-related expenses, which would reduce our net income, if any, in future years; ‒ The loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and ‒ Our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to integrate, operate, maintain or manage, successfully or profitably, our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. If MtronPTI is unable to introduce innovative products, demand for its products may decrease. MtronPTI's future operating results are dependent on its ability to develop, introduce and market innovative products continually, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change and to customize some of its products to meet customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that MtronPTI will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that it will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely or cost-effective manner to satisfy customer demand. MtronPTI's markets are highly competitive, and it may lose business to larger and better-financed competitors. MtronPTI's markets are highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. MtronPTI competes principally on the basis of product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, technological innovation, timely delivery and price. Within the industry in which MtronPTI competes, competition 9 has become increasingly concentrated and global in recent years. Many of MtronPTI's major competitors, some of which are larger, and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities. Availability under our revolving credit facility may be limited due to a decline in the borrowing base. Our credit facility includes a revolving credit facility that is based upon certain assets of MtronPTI, which include accounts receivable and inventory, subject to certain adjustments as defined by the loan agreement governing the credit facility. The total amount available to be borrowed under the revolving credit facility may be reduced if business activity levels lead to lower asset balances as defined under the loan agreement. Compliance with the financial covenants under our existing loan agreement may be difficult due to our results of operations, our financial condition, or prevailing economic conditions. We may find it difficult to comply with the financial covenants defined under our existing loan agreement, which requires that MtronPTI maintain a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including, but not limited to, a financial covenant to maintain a certain level of tangible net worth. If prevailing business levels cause us to default on these covenants, the credit facility under our existing loan agreement may become unavailable and we may be unable to find a replacement facility or obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. This may limit our access to capital to fund our business or hinder our ability to meet our strategic objectives. Under our existing loan agreement, we are required to obtain the lender's consent for most additional debt financing, potentially making it more difficult for us to obtain such financing. Our success depends on our ability to retain key management and technical personnel and attracting, retaining, and training new technical personnel. Our future growth and success will depend in large part upon our ability to recruit highly-skilled technical personnel, including engineers, and to retain our existing management and technical personnel. The labor markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our operations are not located in highly populated areas. As a result, we may not be able to recruit and retain key personnel. Our failure to hire, retain or adequately train key personnel could have a negative impact on our performance. The Company's employment agreement with Gregory P. Anderson, its President and Chief Executive Officer, expires on November 2, 2013. MtronPTI purchases certain key components and raw materials from single or limited sources and could lose sales if these sources fail to fulfill its needs. If single-source components or key raw materials were to become unavailable on satisfactory terms, and MtronPTI could not obtain comparable replacement components or raw materials from other sources in a timely manner, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. On occasion, one or more of the components used in MtronPTI's products have become unavailable, resulting in unanticipated redesign and related delays in shipments. We cannot give assurance that similar delays will not occur in the future. Our suppliers may be impacted by compliance with environmental regulations including Restriction of Hazardous Substances ("RoHS") and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE"), which could disrupt the supply of components or raw materials or cause additional costs for MtronPTI to implement new components or raw materials into its manufacturing process. As a supplier to U.S. Government defense contractors, we are subject to a number of procurement regulations and other requirements and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a U.S. audit or investigation. A number of our customers are U.S. Government contractors. As one of their suppliers, we must comply with significant procurement regulations and other requirements. We also maintain registration under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations for all of our production facilities. One of those production facilities must comply with additional requirements and regulations for its production processes and for selected personnel in order to maintain 10 the security of classified information. These requirements, although customary within these markets, increase our performance and compliance costs. If any of these various requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our operating margins. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") and Defense Contract Management Agency ("DCMA"). These agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review include our purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business as a supplier to contractors who sell products and services to the U.S. Government. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected if allegations of impropriety were made against us. From time to time, we may also be subject to U.S. Government investigations relating to our operations and are expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition, if we are found to have violated the law or are indicted or convicted for violations of federal laws related to government security regulations, employment practices or protection of the environment, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law. Such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from serving as a supplier to government contractors for some period of time. Such convictions or actions could have a material adverse effect on us and our operating results. MtronPTI's products are complex and may contain errors or design flaws, which could be costly to correct. When MtronPTI releases new products, or new versions of existing products, they may contain undetected or unresolved errors or defects. The vast majority of MtronPTI's products are custom-designed for requirements of specific OEM systems. The expected business life of these products ranges from less than one year to more than 10 years depending on the application. Some of the customizations are modest changes to existing product designs while others are major product redesigns or new product platforms. Despite testing, errors or defects may be found in new products or upgrades after the commencement of commercial shipments. Undetected errors and design flaws have occurred in the past and could occur in the future. These errors could result in delays, loss of market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, damage to the Company's reputation, legal action by its customers, failure to attract new customers and increased service costs. Communications and network infrastructure equipment manufacturers increasingly rely upon contract manufacturers, thereby diminishing our ability to sell our products directly to those equipment manufacturers. There is a continuing trend among communications and network infrastructure equipment manufacturers to outsource the manufacturing of their equipment or components. As a result, MtronPTI's ability to persuade these OEMs to utilize our products in customer designs could be reduced and, in the absence of a manufacturer's specification of MtronPTI's products, the prices that MtronPTI can charge for them may be subject to greater competition. 11 MtronPTI's customers are significantly larger than it and may exert leverage that will not be in our best interest. The majority of MtronPTI's sales are to companies that are many times its size. This size differential may disadvantage MtronPTI in negotiating contractual terms. These terms include price, payment terms, product warranties and product consignment obligations. There is a trend among some of MtronPTI's larger customers that require MtronPTI to provide increased levels of warranty coverage. Some of these warranty provisions would require MtronPTI to pay substantial financial penalties if the customer invokes the warranty. These warranty provisions may result in additional production costs to MtronPTI. In addition, these new warranty provisions may place MtronPTI at a disadvantage in comparison to its competitors and may result in terms that are not in the best interest of MtronPTI. Future changes in MtronPTI's environmental liability and compliance obligations may increase costs and decrease profitability. MtronPTI's present and past manufacturing operations, products, and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and other chemicals. In addition, more stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in MtronPTI's operations that any future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance that would be associated with these regulations. Environmental laws and regulations may cause us to change our manufacturing processes, redesign some of our products, and change components to eliminate some substances in MtronPTI's products in order to be able to continue to offer them for sale. We have significant international operations and sales to customers outside of the United States that subject us to certain business, economic and political risks. We have office and manufacturing space in Noida, India and Yantai, China, and sales offices in Hong Kong and Shanghai, China. Additionally, foreign revenues for 2012 and 2011 (primarily to Malaysia and China) accounted for 49.2% of our 2012 consolidated revenues and 56.2% of our 2011 consolidated revenues. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside of the United States will continue to be a significant part of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our international operations and sales to customers outside of the United States subject our operating results and financial condition to certain business, economic, political, health, regulatory and other risks, including: ‒ Political and economic instability in countries in which MtronPTI's products are manufactured and sold; ‒ Expropriation or the imposition of government controls; ‒ Sanctions or restrictions on trade imposed by the United States government; ‒ Export license requirements; ‒ Trade restrictions; ‒ Currency controls or fluctuations in exchange rates; ‒ High levels of inflation or deflation; ‒ Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; ‒ Changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and ‒ Limitations on insurance coverage against geopolitical risks, natural disasters and business operations. 12 Additionally, to date, very few of our international revenue and cost obligations have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies may affect our competitiveness in foreign markets. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging activities, but may do so in the future to the extent that we incur a significant amount of foreign-currency denominated liabilities. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and several foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. The final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions designed to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals," originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefitting armed groups. As a result, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") recently adopted new due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies that manufacture products that include components containing such minerals. Since we manufacture such products, we will be required to comply with the new SEC rules, with our first required report due in May 2014. We expect that the compliance process will be both time-consuming and costly. Costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements will include diligence to determine the sources of minerals used in our products and potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of certain materials used in our products. Because there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. In addition, our supply chain is complex and we may not be able to easily verify the origins for all minerals used in our products. We may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of minerals contained in the components included in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has fluctuated considerably and is likely to remain volatile, in part due to the limited market for our common stock. From January 1, 2012, through March 26, 2013, the high and low sales prices for our common stock were $9.14 and $4.76, respectively. There is a limited public market for our common stock, and we cannot provide assurances that a more active trading market will develop. As a result of low trading volume in our common stock, the purchase or sale of a relatively small number of shares could result in significant share price fluctuations. 13 Additionally, the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: ‒ General economic conditions affecting the availability of long-term or short-term credit facilities, the purchasing and payment patterns of our customers, or the requirements imposed by our suppliers; ‒ Economic conditions in our industry and in the industries of our customers and suppliers; ‒ Changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts relating to our common stock; ‒ Market reaction to our reported financial results; ‒ Loss of a major customer; ‒ Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and ‒ Changes in key personnel. Our officers, directors and 10% stockholders have significant voting power and may vote their shares in a manner that is not in the best interest of other stockholders. Our officers, directors and 10% or greater stockholders control approximately 39.8% of the voting power represented by our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 26, 2013. If these stockholders act together, they may be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of the Company more difficult, which acquisition may be beneficial to stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("DGCL"), may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include prohibiting our stockholders from fixing the number of directors, and establishing advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our Board of Directors (the "Board"). Additionally, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. We have not opted out of the restrictions under Section 203, as permitted under DGCL. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 