ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results. 8 Consummation of a transaction to acquire all of our outstanding common stock that results in substantially more debt to us could have an adverse effect on us, such as a downgrade of the ratings of our debt securities, and that downgrade could be significant. On September 5, 2006, we received a proposal from investors led by Daniel H. Leever, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Court Square Capital Partners (“Court Square”), a related party, to acquire all of our outstanding common stock for $32.50 per share in cash. On December 15, 2006, our Board of Directors, on the unanimous recommendation of a Special Committee, comprised entirely of independent directors, approved a merger agreement under which Daniel H. Leever, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and investment funds managed by Court Square, a related party and Weston Presidio will acquire all of our outstanding common stock for $35.00 per share. In response to the proposal, Moody’s Investor Services placed our long-term debt rating under review for possible downgrade. Standard & Poor’s put our long-term debt rating on credit watch with negative implications. The merger agreement contains certain closing conditions. There can be no assurance that the management proposal or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. Further, no assurance can be given that the consummation of any particular transaction will not result in substantially more debt to us and have an adverse effect on us, such as a downgrade in the ratings of our debt securities, which could be significant. Additionally, consummation of any transaction could have other adverse effects on us. The absence of a proposal to acquire our common stock would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. On the last trading day prior to the announcement of management’s revised proposal, our common stock closed at $32.82 per share. After the December 15, 2006, announcement, the stock price rose to trade closer to the $35.00 per share proposal price. If this proposal were rejected and withdrawn, or if no similar transaction presented itself, the stock price would likely retreat from its current trading range. If we terminate the merger agreement, subject to certain circumstances, we will have to pay a termination fee of $33 million to Court Square. If Court Square terminates the merger agreement, subject to certain circumstances, Court Square would be required to pay us a termination fee of $33 million. The competitive pressures we face could harm our sales and gross profit. We encounter competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, technology, performance, price, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, and service and support. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, financial results and prospects could be harmed. Unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. If our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. Finally, industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. 9 Prolonged downturns of our customers’ industries and general economic uncertainty could adversely affect our sales and operating profit. Our sales and operating profit depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for our specialty chemical products and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and constrained spending, as well as diminishing markets in many of our customers’ industries, has previously resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased sales, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to collect customer receivables. In addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, and increases in pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Economic downturns have resulted, and could result in the future, in restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in chemical products spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $302.2 million of total debt, as compared to shareholders’ equity of approximately $414.7 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $75 million of availability under our long-term credit agreement. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · increase the amount of our interest expense, because certain of our borrowings may be at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. Failing to comply with our debt covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt instruments, such as the credit agreement relating to our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our notes, may limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. These restrictions could place us at a disadvantage relative to competitors not subject to such limitations. 10 The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, and customer groups and markets, and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period’s net revenue. In particular, our Advanced Surface Finishing segment in our Asia-Pacific region business has recently contributed significantly to our gross margin and profitability, while markets for our Printing Solutions segment in our European region have softened. Competition and other risks affecting these markets therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. Business acquisitions, including the June 2005 acquisition of Autotype International Ltd. and associated entities, also affect overall gross margins and profitability, and therefore may be of limited relevance in evaluating the historical financial performance of our combined company or predicting our future operating results. We face competition from other chemical companies, which could adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. Most of our product lines compete against product lines from two or more of our competitors. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole. We expect our competitors to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in our customers’ products can reduce the demand for our specialty chemicals. Our specialty chemicals are used for a broad range of applications by our customers. Changes, including technological changes, in our customers’ products or processes may make our specialty chemicals unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those chemicals. We have had, and may continue to have, customers that may find alternative materials or processes that no longer require our products. Our profitability could be reduced by declines in the average selling prices in the specialty chemicals industry. Decreases in the average selling prices of some of our products may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our ability to maintain or increase our profitability will continue to be dependent, in large part, upon our ability to offset decreases in average selling prices by improving production efficiency or by shifting to higher margin chemical products. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Environmental and health and safety liabilities and requirements could require us to incur material costs. As manufacturers and distributors of specialty chemicals and systems, we are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety, including those governing: · discharges of pollutants into the air and water; · the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; and · the cleanup of contaminated properties. 11 We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. We could incur significant additional costs, including cleanup costs, fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. The nature of our operations and products, including raw materials we handle, exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental cleanup and other matters, including those in connection with the disposal of hazardous materials. Some of our manufacturing facilities have an extended history of chemical processes or other industrial activities, and contaminants have been detected at some of our sites, including contamination resulting from historical activities at certain sites acquired in the December 1998 acquisition of W. Canning plc. We also have been named as a potentially responsible party at two Superfund sites. Although we do not anticipate that we will be materially affected by environmental remediation costs, or any related claims, at any contaminated or Superfund sites, the discovery of additional contaminants at these or other sites or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations could result in significant additional costs. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities also are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis, meaning that one liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. In addition, future events, such as changes in or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations and/or install pollution control equipment. Our substantial international operations subject us to risks not faced by domestic competitors, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, tax and economic conditions in other countries that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 57% of our total sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 were derived from sales in foreign markets. We expect sales from international markets to represent an increasing portion of our total sales. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: · agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; · foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; · foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; · U.S. export licenses may be difficult to obtain; · intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce in foreign countries; · fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency; · general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; 12 · our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities; · unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including with respect to export duties and quotas; · compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult; and · overlap of different tax structures may subject us to additional taxes. Our business in emerging markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies which will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that any of the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our operating results and net income. The financial condition and results of operations of each foreign operating subsidiary are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates between these currencies and U.S. dollars in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 57% of our net sales and identifiable assets were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. These foreign currencies included predominantly the Euro, British Pound Sterling, the Hong Kong Dollar, the Chinese Yuan and the Japanese Yen. We do not manage our foreign currency exposure in a manner that would eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on our earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities; therefore, our financial performance could be positively or negatively impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates in any given reporting period. Significant changes in the value of the Euro, Japanese Yen, Chinese Yuan, Hong Kong Dollar or the British Pound Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet interest and principal payments on any Euro, Japanese Yen, Hong Kong Dollar, Chinese Yuan and British Pound Sterling-denominated debt outstanding, including borrowings under our long-term credit agreement, and U.S. Dollar-denominated debt, including our notes and borrowings under our long-term credit agreement. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions outside of the United States could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales abroad accounted for approximately 57% of total sales. As a result, our business is affected by general economic conditions and other factors in Western Europe and most of East Asia, specifically China, Japan and Korea, including fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest rates, market demand, labor costs and other factors beyond our control. The demand for our products is directly affected by such fluctuations. We cannot assure you that events having an adverse effect on the specialty chemicals industry will not occur or continue, such as a downturn in the Western 13 European, Asian or world economies, increases in interest rates, unfavorable currency fluctuations or a slowdown in the construction or electronics manufacturing industries. We may be unable to respond effectively to technological changes in our industry, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Our future business success will depend upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on patents and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our future performance and growth could be adversely affected if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and compounds and other technology is important to our business. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law as well as judicial enforcement to protect such technologies. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application, and we cannot assure you that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any pending patent application filed by us will result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, that those patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some foreign countries. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in our Company incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. We have made acquisitions of businesses in the past and may do so from time to time in the future. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions of related businesses, or our failure to integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could result in our company incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions. 14 In connection with potential future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with future acquisitions include: · unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company; · conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; · coordinating new product and process development; · hiring additional management and other critical personnel; · negotiating with labor unions; and · increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of other businesses we may acquire. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increases in costs or reductions in supplies of specialty and commodity chemicals we use in our manufacturing process could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We use a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in our manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of these raw materials on a timely basis. These raw materials are generally available from numerous independent suppliers. We typically purchase our major raw materials on a contract or as-needed basis from outside sources. The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In addition, some of the raw materials that we use are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks. There have been historical periods of rapid and significant movements in the prices of these feedstocks, both upward and downward. We selectively pass changes in the prices of raw materials to our customers from time to time. We cannot always do so, however, and any limitation on our ability to pass through any price increases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials could materially affect our operating results. Our production facilities are subject to operating hazards, the occurrence of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities. These production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, and environmental hazards, such as spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances and gases, storage tank leaks and remediation complications. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment and environmental 15 contamination and other environmental damage and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our restructuring initiatives may not result in sufficient cost savings to justify their expense. We have undertaken and may continue to undertake productivity initiatives, including organizational restructurings, to improve performance and generate cost savings. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we implemented certain consolidation actions, which consisted primarily of facility consolidations and closures, including the movement of certain manufacturing operations, and employee terminations at both our Schaumburg, Illinois facility, and our Evreux, France facility. In the first quarter of 2006 we implemented restructuring initiatives related to our US MPS business. In the second quarter of 2006 we closed our Denmark facility and consolidated the Denmark manufacturing operations into an existing facility in Wantage, England. In 2006 we also completed the relocation of our Schuamburg, Illinois facility into an existing facility into Middletown, Delaware. In the fourth quarter of 2006 we initiated further restructuring plans related to our Evreux, France Facility. We can make no assurances that these restructuring initiatives will be completed or beneficial to us. Also, we cannot assure you that any estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized. We are subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. We are a defendant in numerous lawsuits that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business. These suits concern issues including product liability, contract disputes, labor-related matters, patent infringement, environmental proceedings, property damage and personal injury matters. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, the ultimate resolution of these matters could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. Compliance with government regulations, or penalties for non-compliance, could prevent or increase the cost of the development, distribution and sale of our products. We are subject to regulation by many U.S. and non-U.S. supranational, national, federal, state and local governmental authorities. In some circumstances, before we may sell some of our products these authorities must approve these products, our manufacturing processes and facilities. We are also subject to ongoing reviews of our products and manufacturing processes. In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products, we must, among other things, demonstrate to the relevant authority that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with current regulations. The process of seeking approvals can be costly, time consuming and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. There can be no assurance that approvals will be granted to us on a timely basis, or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate revenue from those products. New laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscation, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our credit rating is subject to change. Our credit is rated by credit rating agencies. We are rated BB+ by Standard and Poor’s Rating Service, which is considered “stable”. Our issue ratings on our 91¤8% Senior Subordinated Notes are BB- by 16 Standard and Poor’s Rating Service and Ba3 by Moody’s Investor Service, both of which are considered “non-investment grade” debt. If in the future our credit rating is downgraded, such a downgrade may increase our cost of capital if we borrow under our revolving credit facilities. Additionally, a downgrade of our credit rating with one or more of the credit rating agencies may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or at all; may negatively impact the price of our common stock; and may have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. In response to the buyout proposal for our common stock, Moody’s Investor Services placed our long-term debt rating under review for possible downgrade. Standard & Poor’s put our long-term debt rating on credit watch with negative implications. We are exposed to intangible asset risk. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, in connection with business acquisitions. We are required to perform goodwill impairment tests at least on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. As a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we may determine that the intangible asset values need to be written down to their fair values, which could result in material charges that could be adverse to our operating results and financial position. Recently enacted changes in the securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange have promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue indefinitely. We also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors or qualified executive officers. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud, or in informing management of all material information in timely manner. Our management, including our CEO and principal financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of 17 changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principals generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”). Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We may be adversely affected if we lose the services of Daniel H. Leever or any other member of our senior management team. We are dependent on the services of Daniel H. Leever, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team to remain competitive in our industry. The loss of Daniel H. Leever or any other member of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on us, depending on our ability to locate a suitable replacement either within or from outside MacDermid, in a timely and cost-effective manner. The interests of our principal shareholders may conflict with your interests, and they could act in a manner detrimental to you. As of December 31, 2006, our directors, officers, and retirement plans held approximately 18.3% of the shares of our common stock either directly or beneficially. By virtue of such stock ownership, such persons have the power to significantly influence our affairs and are able to influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and amendment of our charter and bylaws. We cannot assure you that such persons will not exercise their influence over us in a manner detrimental to your interests. Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing shareholders, including the selling stockholders, sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or if the public market perceives that such a sale might occur, the market price for our common stock could decline significantly. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could result in losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock. Investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above their purchase price. The trading price for our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The stock market in general and the market for companies with significant sales to customers in cyclical industries, such as the electronics and automotive industries, have experienced volatility. Many factors contribute to this volatility, including, but not limited to: · variations in our results of operations, 18 · perceptions about market conditions in the industries we serve, and · general market conditions. This volatility may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the possibility exists that the stock market could experience extreme price and volume fluctuations unrelated to operating performance. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Some areas, including parts of the East Coast and Midwest of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. Losses and interruptions could also be caused by earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters, for which we are predominantly self-insured. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 