Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the risks and uncertainties that should be considered in evaluating the Company’s common stock and that could cause the actual future results of the Company to differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and in other public statements the Company makes. Additionally, because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, the Company’s past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance. The principal oil and gas properties owned by MPAL, MPC and Nautilus could stop producing oil and gas. MPAL’s Palm Valley and Mereenie fields and / or Nautilus’s Poplar fields could stop producing oil and gas or there could be a material decrease in production levels at the fields. Since these are the three principal revenue producing properties of Magellan, any decline in production levels at these properties could cause Magellan’s revenues to decline. Any such adverse impact on the revenues and cashflows being received by Magellan could restrict our ability to explore and develop oil and gas properties in the future and cause our stock price to decline. 15 Table of Contents If MPAL’s existing long-term gas supply contracts are terminated or not renewed, MPAL’s business could be adversely affected. MPAL’s financial performance and cash flows have historically been dependent upon its Palm Valley and Mereenie existing supply contracts to sell gas produced at these fields to MPAL’s former major customer, Gasgo, a subsidiary of PWC of the Northern Territory. Gasgo has contracted with Eni Australia for the supply of PWC’s Northern Territory gas demand requirement for twenty five years. Eni Australia, commenced sales in January 2009, is to supply the gas from its Blacktip field offshore of the Northern Territory. The Blacktip development has encountered delays but has already commenced partial production. The Mereenie Producers continued to supply PWC’s gas demand on a reasonable endeavors basis to supplement Blacktip gas sales as required until September 5, 2010. All prices for those sales now fall under the Backstop Agreement. MPAL is actively pursuing gas sales contracts for the remaining uncontracted reserves. While gas marketing efforts to date have identified several potential customers, the majority have a gas requirement commencing in the 2011-2013 timeframe. With Blacktip gas now available, there is strong competition within the market and MPAL may not be able to contract for the sale of the remaining uncontracted reserves in the short term, but may be able to do so in the longer term with increasing demand from new mining developments and industrial users in the Northern Territory and the adjacent areas of neighboring states. Unless MPAL is able to sell uncontracted gas, including reasonable endeavors gas not taken by PWC, its revenues will continue to decline in 2011. Mereenie gas sales were approximately $11.6 million (net of royalties) or 85% of total gas sales for the year ended June 30, 2010 and $12.4 million (net of royalties) or 85% of total sales for the year ended June 30, 2009. The Palm Valley Darwin contract expires in the year 2012. The expiration of these contracts, if not replaced, will have an adverse effect on MPAL’s revenues and business outlook and possibly its share price. Palm Valley gas sales were approximately $2.1 million (net of royalties) or 18% of total gas sales for the year ended June 30, 2010 and $2.2 million (net of royalties) or 17% of total sales for the year ended June 30, 2009. We recently completed an acquisition of a 83.5% controlling member interest in Nautilus and may make acquisitions or investments in new oil and gas reserves, operating businesses or assets that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have recently acquired a controlling interest in Nautilus Poplar LLC. We expect to continue to make acquisitions of companies that possess oil and gas reserves or other businesses or assets that are complementary to our growth strategy. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including: • assimilating operations and new personnel may be unexpectedly difficult; • management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; • we may enter markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; • we may lose key employees of an acquired business; • we may not realize the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid; and • despite our due diligence efforts, we may not succeed at quality control or other customer issues. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock or require that we incur additional debt and contingent liabilities. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution of existing equity interests and earnings per share. 16 Table of Contents We recently entered into an agreement with Santos to purchase Santos’ 40% interest in a large gas field offshore in Australia, under which we made an initial cash deposit of (AUS) $15 million as partial payment of the purchase price, that could be forfeited should we be unable to complete the purchase of the interest by the “completion date” specified under the agreement. On March 25, 2010, our subsidiary MPAL entered into an agreement with Santos Limited (Santos) to purchase Santos’ 40% interest in Evans Shoal natural gas field (NT/P48), located in the Bonaparte Basin offshore Northern Australia. Under the agreement, we paid a cash deposit of (AUS) $15 million to be credited against the (AUS) $100 million initial purchase price for the Santos interest. If we are unable to complete the purchase of Santos’ interest by the completion date specified under the agreement (which will occur during December 2010) either because we are unable to raise additional funding by the sale of additional equity or debt securities in the near future, would likely forfeit our initial (AUS) $15 million deposit payment to Santos, which would adversely impact our financial condition and could cause our stock price to decline. For a more complete description of the Evans Shoal agreement and gas field, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein in Item 8. Our plans to drill for oil and gas on fields located in the U.K. may not result in successful discoveries of oil and gas. During fiscal year 2011, we expect that at least two new wells, Markwells Wood-1, Havant-1, in the Weald Basin in the United Kingdom in which we hold interests will be drilled in an attempt to recover oil and gas in commercially viable quantities. If these drilling projects are not successful, no revenues will be achieved from the drilling projects and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be successful in sharing the exploration and development costs of the fields and permits in which we hold interests. Our plans for drilling in the U.K. and North America depend, in certain cases, on our ability to enter into farm-in, joint venture or other cost sharing arrangements with other oil and gas companies. If we are not able to secure such farm-in or other arrangements in a timely manner, or on terms which are economically attractive to the Company, we may be forced to bear higher exploration and development costs with respect to our fields and interests. We may also be unable to fully develop and/or explore certain fields if the costs to do so would exceed our available exploration budget and capital resources. In either case, our results of operations could be adversely affected and the market price of our common shares could decline. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may depress our stock price. During the past few years, the equity trading markets in the United States have experienced price volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. From time to time, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common shares. Investors could sell shares of our common stock at or after the time that it becomes apparent that the expectations of the market may not be realized, resulting in a decrease in the market price of our common shares. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, on the services of the officers and key employees of MPC, Nautilus, and MPAL. The ability to retain its officers and key employees is important to our continued success and growth. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents There are risks inherent in foreign operations such as adverse changes in currency values and foreign regulations relating to MPAL’s exploration and development operations and to MPAL’s payment of dividends to MPC. The properties in which Magellan has interests located outside the United States are subject to certain risks related to the indirect ownership and development of foreign properties, including government expropriation, adverse changes in currency values and foreign exchange controls, foreign taxes, nationalization and other laws and regulations, any of which may adversely affect the Company’s properties. Although there are currently no exchange controls on the payment of dividends to the Company by MPAL, such payments could be restricted by Australian foreign exchange controls, if implemented. Our dividend policy could depress our stock price. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock and have no current intention to change this policy. We plan to retain any future earnings to reduce our accumulated deficit and finance growth. As a result, our dividend policy could depress the market price for our common stock and cause investors to lose some or all of their investment. We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock under our stock option plans and shareholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares. As of June 30, 2010, there were 4,347,826 warrants outstanding and 3,880,000 stock options outstanding of which 2,230,000 were fully vested and exercisable. As of that date, there were also 800,000 options available for future grants under our 1998 Stock Incentive Plan as amended in May of 2009. If all of these options and warrants, which total 9,027,826 in the aggregate, were awarded and exercised these shares would represent approximately 17.24% of our outstanding common shares and would, upon their exercise and the payment of the exercise prices, dilute the interests of other shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our shares are delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, their liquidity and value could be reduced. In order for us to maintain the listing of our shares of common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Company’s shares must maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 as set forth in Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). If the bid price of the Company’s shares trade below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, then the bid price of the Company’s shares must trade at $1.00 or more for 10 consecutive trading days during a 180-day grace period to regain compliance with the rule. On September 1, 2010 the Company’s shares closed at $1.63 per share. If the Company shares were to be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, then most likely the shares would be traded on the Electronic Bulletin Board, or OTC-BB. The delisting of the Company’s shares from NASDAQ could adversely impact the liquidity and value of the Company’s shares. We have limited management and staff and will be dependent upon partnering arrangements. The Company and its affiliates had approximately 39 total employees as of June 30, 2010. Despite this increase in employment, we expect that we will continue to require the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, including reservoir engineering, land, legal, environmental and tax services. We will also pursue alliances with partners in the areas of geological and geophysical services and prospect generation, evaluation and prospect leasing. Our dependence on third party consultants and service providers creates a number of risks, including but not limited to: • the possibility that such third parties may not be available to us as and when needed; and • the risk that we may not be able to properly control the timing and quality of work conducted with respect to our projects. If we experience significant delays in obtaining the services of such third parties or poor performance by such parties, our results of operations and stock price will be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY Oil and gas prices are volatile. A decline in prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the oil and gas we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices of oil, natural gas, methane gas and other fuels have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: • worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas; • changes in the supply and demand for such fuels; • political conditions in oil, natural gas, and other fuel-producing and fuel-consuming areas; • the extent of Australian domestic oil and gas production and importation of such fuels and substitute fuels in Australian and other relevant markets; • weather conditions, including effects on prices and supplies in worldwide energy markets because of recent hurricanes in the United States; • the competitive position of each such fuel as a source of energy as compared to other energy sources; and • the effect of governmental regulation on the production, transportation, and sale of oil, natural gas, and other fuels. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and gas price movements with any certainty. Furthermore, the ongoing worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in lower oil and natural gas prices. Oil prices declined from record levels in early July 2008 of over $140 per barrel to below $70 per barrel in August 2009 and are back up to $76 per barrel as of September 2010, while natural gas prices have declined from over $13 per mcf to approximately $4 per mcf over the same period. Sustained declines in oil and gas prices (such as those experienced in the second half of 2008) would not only reduce our revenues, but could reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Further, oil and gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem. Approximately 2.6% of our proved reserves at June 30, 2010 were natural gas reserves. Gas sales contracts in Australia are adjusted to the gas price movements related to the Australian Consumer Price Index. Future gas sales not governed by existing contracts would generate lower revenue if natural gas prices in Australia were to decline. Sales of our proved oil reserves are dependent on world oil prices. The volatility of these prices will affect future oil revenues. Gas sales, which represented approximately 50% of production revenues in 2010, are derived primarily from the Palm Valley and Mereenie fields in the Northern Territory of Australia and the gas prices are set according to contracts that are subject to changes in the Australian Consumer Price Index. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than Magellan. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas acquisition, development, exploitation, exploration and production and face intense competition from both major and other independent oil and natural 19 Table of Contents gas companies. Many of our Australian competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, we may not be able to compete with, or enter into cooperative relationships with, any such firms. Our oil and gas exploration and production operations are subject to numerous environmental laws, compliance with which may be extremely costly. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the various countries in which they are conducted. Such laws and regulations frequently require completion of a costly environmental impact assessment and government review process prior to commencing exploratory and/or development activities. In addition, such environmental laws and regulations may restrict, prohibit, or impose significant liability in connection with spills, releases, or emissions of various substances produced in association with fuel exploration and development. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or that those laws, regulations or administrative policies or practices will not be changed by the various governmental entities. The cost of compliance with current laws and regulations or changes in environmental laws and regulations could require significant expenditures. Moreover, if we breach any governing laws or regulations, we may be compelled to pay significant fines, penalties, or other payments. Costs associated with environmental compliance or noncompliance may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations in the future. The potential impacts of climate change may negatively impact our business and results of operations. Climate change has become the subject of an important public policy debate. Climate change remains a complex issue, with some scientific research suggesting that an increase in greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) may pose a risk to society and the environment. The oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is a source of certain GHGs, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on the combustion of fossil fuels or the venting of natural gas could have a significant impact on our future operations. We depend on one purchaser for a substantial portion of our revenue in North America. The inability of the purchaser to meet their payment obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. Currently, Nautilus relies on its contract with Nexen, Inc. as the sole customer for its oil produced in Montana. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. This annual report and the documents incorporated by reference in this annual report contain estimates of our proved reserves and the estimated future net revenues from our proved reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Actual future production, oil and gas 20 Table of Contents prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from these estimates. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by operators on adjacent properties. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the average, first-day-of-the-month price during the 12-month period preceding the measurement date. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for financial statement disclosure, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Our reserves as of June 30, 2010 have been reported under new SEC Rules. The estimates provided in accordance with the new SEC rules may change materially as a result of interpretive guidance that may be subsequently released by the SEC. We have included in this report estimates of our proved reserves at June 30, 2010 as prepared consistent with our independent reserve engineers’ interpretations of the new SEC rules relating to disclosures of estimated natural gas and oil reserves. These new rules are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. These newly adopted rules require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserve estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on 12-month unweighted first-day-of-the-month average pricing. The SEC has not specifically reviewed our reserve estimates under the new rules and has released only limited interpretive guidance regarding reporting of reserve estimates under the new rules. Accordingly, while the estimates of our proved reserves at June 30, 2010 included in this report have been prepared based on what we and our independent reserve engineers believe to be reasonable interpretations of the new SEC rules, those estimates could ultimately differ materially from any estimates we might prepare applying more specific SEC interpretive guidance. We may be limited in our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves under the new SEC rules. Another impact of the new SEC reserve rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program on our undeveloped properties. 21 Table of Contents We may not have funds sufficient to make the significant capital expenditures required to replace our reserves. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, farming-in other companies or investors to MPAL’s exploration and development projects in which we have an interest and/or equity issuances. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas, and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If revenue were to decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund the Company’s capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to rely upon additional farm-in opportunities, debt or equity offerings or other methods of financing to meet these cash flow requirements. If we are not able to replace reserves, we may not be able to sustain production. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we replace the reserves we produce through successful development, exploration or acquisition activities, our proved reserves will decline over time. Recovery of any additional reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. We may not be able to successfully find and produce reserves economically in the future. In addition, we may not be able to acquire proved reserves at acceptable costs. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations. The new wells we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment. Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Under this method, the costs of successful wells, development dry holes and productive leases are capitalized and amortized on a units-of-production basis over the life of the related reserves. Cost centers for amortization purposes are determined on a field-by-field basis. Magellan records its proportionate share in its working interest agreements in the respective classifications of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Unproved properties with significant acquisition costs are periodically, but at least annually, assessed for impairment in value with any required impairment charged to expense. The successful efforts method also imposes limitations on the carrying or book 22 Table of Contents value of proved oil and gas properties. Oil and gas properties (including exploration rights), along with goodwill, are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We estimate the future undiscounted cash flows from the affected properties to determine the recoverability of carrying amounts. In general, analyses are based on proved developed reserves for gas, except in the case of Palm Valley proved gas, which is based in contracted volumes. At June 30, 2010, Mereenie had no gas contracts, thus no gas reserves. The Mereenie discounted future net cash flows were negative due to the loss of the gas contract. According to the SEC definition of proved reserves, this results in zero proved oil reserves. For Palm Valley, reserves were based upon the quantities of gas committed to the contract. If such contracts are extended, the proved developed reserves will be increased to the lesser of the actual proved developed reserves and risk adjusted probable and possible reserves or the contracted quantities. A significant decline in oil and gas prices from current levels, or other factors, without other mitigating circumstances, could cause a future write down of capitalized costs and a non-cash charge against future earnings. Oil and gas drilling and producing operations are hazardous and expose us to environmental liabilities. Oil and gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, and other environmental hazards and risks. Our drilling operations involve risks from high pressures and from mechanical difficulties such as stuck pipes, collapsed casings and separated cables. If any of these risks occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution or other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • and suspension of operations. Our liability for environmental hazards includes those created either by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease or by acquired companies prior to the date we acquire them. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover casualty losses or liabilities. Also, in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Difficult conditions resulting from the ongoing U.S. and worldwide financial and credit crisis, and significant concerns over the continuing recessions in the U.S. and Australian economies, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Continual volatility and disruption, since 2008, in worldwide capital and credit markets and further deteriorating conditions in the U.S. and Australian economies could affect our revenues and earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, purchasers of our oil and gas production may reduce the amounts of oil and gas they purchase from us and/or delay or be unable to make timely payments to us. Further, a number of our oil and gas properties are operated by third parties whom we depend upon for timely performance of drilling and other contractual obligations and, in some cases, for distribution to us of our proportionate share of revenues from sales of oil and gas we produce. If current economic conditions adversely impact our third party operators, we are exposed to the risk that drilling operations or revenue disbursements to us could be delayed. This “trickle down” effect could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. 23 Table of Contents We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate all of the properties in which we own an ownership interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these non-operated properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production, revenues and reserves. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • selection of suitable technology. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our operating results. The exchange rates among the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar, as well as the exchange rates between the Australian dollar and the U.K. pound sterling, have changed in recent periods and may fluctuate substantially in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenue will continue to be generated in the Australian dollar in the future. Since June 30, 2009, the U.S. dollar has slightly strengthened against the Australian dollar which has had, and may continue to have, a positive impact on our revenues generated in the Australian dollar, as well as our operating income and net income, as considered on a consolidated basis. The foreign exchange gain for the year ended June 30, 2010 was $1.4 million and is included in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet. Any continued appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Australian dollar is likely to have a positive impact on our revenue, operating income and net income. Because of our U.K. development program, a portion of our expenses, including exploration costs and capital and operating expenditures will continue to be denominated in U.K. pound sterling. Accordingly, any material appreciation of the U.K. pound sterling against the Australian dollar could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 