Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks, which we describe below. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business If our merger transaction with Tyco Electronics Ltd. is not completed or is delayed, our share price, business and results of operations may materially suffer. While we believe our acquisition by Tyco Electronics Ltd. will close in the current calendar quarter, it is possible the transaction might not be completed or could be delayed for a number of reasons. If the consummation of the merger is delayed or otherwise not consummated within the contemplated time periods or not at all, we could suffer a number of consequences that may affect our business, results of operations and share price in a material and adverse manner, including: • a loss of revenue and market position that we may not be able to regain if the proposed transaction is not consummated; • damage to our relationships with our customers, suppliers, and other business partners; • a potential obligation to pay a $38.0 million termination fee depending on the reasons for termination of the merger transaction; • significant costs related to the proposed transaction, including substantial legal, accounting and investment banking expenses; • a loss of key employees during the pendency of the merger and our relationships with employees generally may be damaged; and • a loss of business and organizational opportunities due to covenants in the merger agreement that restrict certain actions by us prior to completion of the merger, or other factors. Our industry is highly competitive and spending for communication infrastructure products has not grown significantly in recent years. In addition, our product and services sales are subject to significant downward pricing and volume pressure. Competition in the broadband network infrastructure equipment and services industry is intense. We have experienced, and anticipate continuing to experience, greater pricing pressures from our customers as well as our competitors, many of whom are headquartered or have operations in low cost regions. In part, this pressure exists because our industry currently is characterized by many vendors pursuing relatively few large customers. As a result, our customers have the ability to exert significant pressure on us with respect to product pricing and other contractual terms. We believe our ability to compete with other manufacturers of communications equipment products and providers of related services depends primarily on our engineering, manufacturing and marketing skills; the price, quality and reliability of our products; our delivery and service capabilities; and the management of our business model (e.g., improving gross margins and controlling operating expenses). Our sales and operations may continue to be impacted adversely by global economic conditions. The ongoing global economic downturn may worsen or continue for a significant period of time. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and in business conditions generally. These economic developments have affected our business adversely in a number of ways and could continue to impact our business adversely during the foreseeable future. Examples of the impact the global economic downturn has had, and could continue to have on our business include: • There has been, and may continue to be, soft demand for the goods and services our customers provide to their customers. In turn, this has caused, and may continue to cause, some of our customers to spend less on the products and services we sell. 12 Table of Contents • Increased competition to complete sales among our competitors has created, and may continue to create, pressure to sell products and services at lower prices or on less advantageous terms than in the past. Our gross margins may vary over time, and our level of gross margins may not be sustainable. Gross margins among our product groups vary and are subject to fluctuation from quarter to quarter. Many of our newer product offerings, such as our FTTX products, typically have lower gross margins than our legacy products. As these new products increasingly account for a larger percentage of our sales, our gross margins could be impacted negatively. The factors that may impact our gross margins adversely are numerous and include, among others: • Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including the mix of configurations within each product group; • Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; • Our ability to reduce product costs; • Increases in material or labor costs; • Expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements; • Excess inventory and inventory carrying charges; • Changes in shipment volume; • Changes in component pricing; • Increased price competition; • Changes in distribution channels; • Increased warranty cost; • Liquidated damages costs relating to customer contractual terms; and • Our ability to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results are difficult to predict for any particular period due to a variety of factors, including the current global economic environment and related market uncertainty. The significant fluctuation of our operating results from quarter to quarter is caused by many factors, including, among others: • the volume and timing of orders from and shipments to our customers; • the overall level of capital expenditures by our customers; • work stoppages and other developments affecting the operations of our customers; • the timing of and our ability to obtain new customer contracts and the timing of revenue recognition; • the timing of new product and service announcements; • the availability of products and services; 13 Table of Contents • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services; • variations in the mix of products and services we sell; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the location and utilization of our production capacity and employees; • increased pricing pressure by our customers; and • the availability and cost of key components of our products. Our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues. If revenue levels in a particular quarter are lower than expected, our operating results will be affected adversely. Our profitability could be impacted negatively if one or more of our key customers substantially reduces orders for our products and/or transitions their purchases towards lower gross margin products. Our customer base is concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 45.8%, 45.5% and 45.4% of our net sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, AT&T accounted for approximately 25.9%, 20.5%, and 18.3% of our net sales, respectively. Verizon accounted for 12.6%, 17.8% and 17.9% of our net sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If a significant customer slows-down, delays, or completes a large project or if we lose a significant customer for any reason, including consolidation among our major customers, our sales and operating results will be impacted negatively. Also, in the case of products for which we believe potential revenue growth is the greatest, our sales remain highly concentrated with the major communications service providers. The loss of sales due to a decrease in orders from a key customer could require us to exit a particular business or product line or record related impairment or restructuring charges. Gross margins vary among our product groups and a shift in our customers’ purchases toward a product mix (i.e., the amount of each type of product we sell in a particular period) with lower margins could result in a reduction in our profitability. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and, to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The communications equipment industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing market conditions and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products using new technologies or the adoption of new industry standards can make our existing products, or products under development, obsolete or unmarketable. For example, FTTX product sales initiatives may impact sales of our non-fiber products negatively. In order to remain competitive and increase sales, we will need to adapt to these rapidly changing technologies, enhance our existing products and introduce new products to address the changing demands of our customers. Due to the rapid changes in technology, we may not predict technological trends in the communications equipment market accurately. New product development often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new technologies and processes and substantial capital commitments. We do not know whether new products and services we develop will gain market acceptance or result in profitable sales. Many companies with whom we may compete have greater engineering and product development resources than us. Although we expect to continue to invest substantial resources in product development activities, our efforts to achieve and maintain profitability will require us to be selective and focused with our research and development expenditures. If we fail to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments, changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or if we experience any significant delays in product development or introduction, our business, operating results and financial condition could be affected adversely. 14 Table of Contents Our cost reduction initiatives may not result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations and may be disruptive to our operations. Over the past several years, we have implemented, and are continuing to implement, significant cost reduction measures. These measures have been taken in an effort to improve our levels of profitability. We have incurred significant restructuring and impairment charges in connection with these cost reduction efforts. If these measures are not fully completed or are not completed in a timely fashion, we may not realize their full potential benefit. In addition, the efforts to cut costs may not generate the savings and improvements in our operating margins and profitability we anticipate and such efforts may be disruptive to our operations. For example, cost savings measures may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in force or increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations due to a weakening of employee morale. Although we believe it is necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings and competitiveness over the longer term. We are becoming increasingly dependent on specific network expansion projects undertaken by our customers, which are subject to intense competition and result in sales volatility. Our business increasingly is focused on the sale of products, including our FTTX products and wireless coverage and capacity solutions, to support customer initiatives to expand broadband and coverage capabilities in their networks. These products increasingly have been deployed by our customers outside their central offices in connection with specific capital projects to increase network capabilities. There can be no assurance that these customer initiatives will continue going forward or that we will continue to be awarded the work we historically have been awarded. In addition, there can be no assurance that as significant projects are completed, new projects will be available to replace them. Because of these project-specific purchases by our customers, the short-term demand for our products can fluctuate significantly and our ability to forecast sales accurately from quarter to quarter can be negatively impacted. This fluctuation can be further affected by the long sales cycles necessary to obtain contracts to supply equipment for these projects. These long sales cycles may result in significant effort expended with no resulting sales or sales that are not made in the anticipated quarter or year. In addition, competition among suppliers with respect to these capital projects can be intense, particularly because these projects often utilize new products that were not used previously in customers’ networks. We cannot give any assurance that these capital projects will continue or that our products will be selected for these equipment deployments. Further consolidation among our customers may result in the loss of some customers and may reduce revenue during the pendency of business combinations and related integration activities. Consolidation among our customers may continue in order for them to increase market share and achieve greater economies of scale. Consolidation has impacted our business as our customers focus on completing business combinations and integrating their operations. In certain instances, customers integrating large-scale acquisitions have reduced their purchases of network equipment during the integration period. For example, following the merger of SBC Communications with AT&T and the merger of AT&T with BellSouth, the combined companies initially deferred spending on certain network equipment purchases, which resulted in lower product sales by ADC to these companies for a period of time. The impact of significant mergers among our customers on our business is likely to be unclear until sometime after such transactions are completed. After a consolidation occurs, a customer may choose to reduce the number of vendors from which it purchases equipment and may choose one of our competitors as its preferred vendor. There can be no assurance that we will continue to supply equipment to the surviving communications service provider after a business combination is completed. Our Professional Services business is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Our Professional Services business is heavily dependent on sales to AT&T. If, over the long-term, AT&T reduces the demand for our services, we may not be successful in finding new customers to replace the lost sales for a period of time. Therefore, sales by our Professional Services business could decline substantially and have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Possible consolidation among our competitors could result in a loss of sales and profitability and negatively impact our competitive position. In recent years, a number of our competitors have engaged in business combination transactions. We may see continued consolidation among communication equipment vendors and some of the transactions may be significant. These business combinations may result in our competitors becoming financially stronger and obtaining broader product portfolios than us. As a result, consolidation could increase the resources of our competitors and provide them with competitive advantages. In turn this could adversely impact our product sales and our profitability. We may not successfully close strategic acquisitions and, if these acquisitions are completed, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses with our existing operations. If our proposed acquisition by Tyco Electronics Ltd. is not completed for any reason, in the future we may acquire companies and/or product lines that we believe are aligned with our strategic focus. The significant effort and management attention invested in a strategic acquisition may not result in a completed transaction. The impact of future acquisitions on our business, operating results and financial condition is not known at this time. In the case of businesses we may acquire in the future, we may have difficulty assimilating these businesses and their products, services, technologies and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may also acquire unanticipated liabilities. Also, we may not be able to retain key management and other critical employees after an acquisition. In addition to these risks, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. If we seek to secure other financing we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms and, given the current market conditions, obtaining financing on any terms may not be possible. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment holdings as well as expected levels of future cash generated from operations provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements. If our estimates are incorrect and we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may need to raise new financing. In addition, if the costs of our strategic acquisition opportunities exceed our existing resources, we may be required to seek additional capital. If we determine it is necessary to seek other additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if such funding is available, to obtain it on acceptable terms. This possibility is heightened by the economic downturn and its adverse effect on credit markets. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms it could: • reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • restrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit new business opportunities; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage. We may complete transactions, undertake restructuring initiatives or face other circumstances in the future that will result in restructuring or impairment charges. From time to time, we have undertaken actions that have resulted in restructuring charges. We may take such actions in the future either in response to slowdowns or shifts in market demand for our products and services or in connection with other initiatives to improve our operating efficiency. In addition, if the fair value of any of our long-lived assets decreases as a result of an economic slowdown, a downturn in the markets where we sell products and services or a downturn in our financial performance and/or future outlook, we may be required to take an impairment charge on such assets. Restructuring and impairment charges could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. The regulatory environment in which we and our customers operate is changing and those changes may impact our business. Although our business is not subject to substantial direct governmental regulation, the communications services provider industry in which our customers operate is subject to significant and changing federal and state regulation in the United States and in other countries. Regulatory changes could alter demand for our products and could affect our business and results of operations adversely. 16 Table of Contents In October 2009, the FCC voted to begin developing regulations related to “Net Neutrality” (i.e., open Internet). While it is unclear whether Congress will, in fact, enact any legislation forbidding Internet service providers from restricting access to lawful sites, applications and services, legislation on “Net Neutrality” may adversely impact our business. Many of our largest customers would be subject to the legislation, which may change how they operate their businesses. The regulatory environment for communication services providers is also changing in other countries. In many countries, regulators are considering whether service providers should be required to provide access to their networks by competitors. For example, this issue is currently being debated in Germany and Australia. As a result, the FTTX initiatives in these countries have been delayed, which has correspondingly delayed any potential sales by us related to these initiatives. Additional regulatory changes affecting the communications industry have occurred and are anticipated to occur in the future. For example, a European Union (“EU”) directive relating to the restriction of hazardous substances (“RoHS”) in electrical and electronic equipment and a directive relating to waste electrical and electronic equipment (“WEEE”) have been and are being implemented in EU member states. Among other things, the RoHS directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in the manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment and the WEEE directive requires producers of electrical goods to be responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of these goods. In addition, a regulation regarding the registration, authorization and restriction of chemical substances in industrial products (“REACH”) became effective in the EU in 2007. Over time this regulation, among other items, may require us to substitute certain chemicals contained in our products with substances the EU considers less dangerous. Similar laws to RoHS and WEEE have been implemented in other countries, such as China and may be in-acted in other nations. Our inability or failure to comply with the REACH, RoHS and WEEE directives, or similar laws and regulations that have been and may be implemented in other countries, could result in reduced sales of our products, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, monetary penalties and other sanctions. Further, the evolution and frequent changes to the REACH, RoHS and WEEE directives make strict compliance particularly challenging and the ongoing costs associated with complying with these directives, or similar laws and regulations, may affect our business and results of operation adversely. Conditions in global markets could adversely affect our operations. Our sales outside the United States accounted for 39.4%, 40.6% and 41.0% of our net sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect sales outside the United States to remain a significant percentage of net sales in the future. We conduct business in many countries around the world including: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Venezuela and Vietnam. 17 Table of Contents Due to our sales and other operations outside the United States, we are subject to the risks of conducting business globally. These risks include, among others: • local economic and market conditions; • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in or impositions of legislative or regulatory requirements; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and various laws in countries in which we are doing business; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which can be significant; • requirements to consult with or obtain the approval of works councils or other labor organizations to complete business initiatives; • tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • risk of foreign governments nationalizing our manufacturing operations; • foreign governments’ efforts to control their local currency and economies in general, resulting in difficulties in exchanging currency or transferring funds to and from such countries; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contract rights; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potentially adverse taxes and export and import requirements; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of non-U.S. laws and telecommunications standards. Our business is also subject to general geopolitical, economic and environmental risks, such as terrorism, political and economic instability, changes in the costs of key resources such as crude oil, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships, natural disasters, pandemic illnesses and other possible disruptive events. Instability created by any of these risks to countries or markets in which we conduct business could have a negative impact on our sales and business operations in these areas. For instance, we operate a significant manufacturing facility in Juarez, Mexico whose operations might be difficult to replicate in other locations in the event an increase in the political and social instability in that city were to cause a disruption to our local operations. The military engagements in Afghanistan and Iraq and other turmoil in the Middle East and the global initiatives against terror also may have negative effects on our business operations. We cannot predict whether these unstable conditions will affect our business and results of operations adversely. We are subject to special risks relating to doing business in China and other developing nations. Our operations in China and other developing nations are subject to significant political, economic and legal uncertainties. Changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could adversely affect our operations in China and other developing nations. In China, the current government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. However, there can be no assurance that the government will continue to pursue these policies, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social, political or economic disruption or other circumstances affecting China’s social, political and economic environment. 18 Table of Contents Although not permitted under the law in most nations, corruption, extortion, bribery, payoffs and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in developing nations. We must comply with U.S. laws prohibiting corrupt business practices outside the United States. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these laws. If our competitors in developing nations engage in these practices, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. We maintain a business conduct program to prevent, deter and detect violations of law in the conduct of business throughout the world. We conduct periodic reviews of our business practices in China and other developing nations and train our personnel in these areas on appropriate ethical and legal business standards. However, a risk remains that our employees will engage in activities that violate laws or our corporate policies. This is particularly true in instances in which new employees we hire or the employees of a company we may acquire may not previously have been accustomed to operating under similar standards. In the event an employee violates applicable laws pertaining to sales practices, accounting standards, facility operations or other business or operational requirements, we may face substantial penalties, and our business in China and other developing nations could be affected adversely. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, these protections are limited. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether these protections will be adequate, or whether our competitors will develop similar technology independently without violating our proprietary rights. Rights that may be granted under any patent application in the future may not provide competitive advantages to us. Intellectual property protection in foreign jurisdictions may be limited or unavailable. Many of our competitors have substantially larger portfolios of patents and other intellectual property rights than we do. As competition in the communications network equipment industry has intensified and the functionality of products has continued to overlap, we believe that network equipment manufacturers increasingly are becoming subject to infringement claims. We have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices from third parties (including some of our competitors) claiming that we are infringing their patents or other proprietary rights. We also have asserted patent claims against certain third parties. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any patent litigation brought against us by third-parties, or that we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents on commercially reasonable terms. Unfavorable resolution of such litigation may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time and attention, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into expensive royalty or licensing agreements. A third party may not be willing to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement on acceptable terms, if at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license, or develop or license non-infringing technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon our senior management and other critical employees. Our success is dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management personnel and other critical employees, including those in customer service and product development functions. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate these employees is critical to our success. In addition, if our acquisition by Tyco Electronics Ltd. is not completed or we subsequently acquire one or more businesses in the future, our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain and integrate our own personnel with personnel from acquired entities who are necessary to the continued success or the successful integration of the acquired businesses. Our continuing initiatives to streamline operations as well as the challenging business environment in which we operate may cause uncertainty in our employee base about whether they will have future employment with us. This uncertainty may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and attract key personnel and may adversely impact our internal control structure. Compliance with internal control requirements is expensive and poses certain risks. We continue to incur significant continuing costs, including accounting fees and staffing costs, in order to maintain compliance with the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Expansion of our business, particularly in international geographies, will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. In addition, if we complete acquisitions in the future, our ability to integrate operations of the acquired company could impact our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot be certain that, as our business changes, our current design for internal control over 19 Table of Contents financial reporting will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. In the future, if we fail to maintain effective controls, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and/or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could affect our operating results adversely or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Product defects or the failure of our products to meet specifications could cause us to lose customers and revenue or to incur unexpected expenses. If our products do not meet our customers’ performance requirements, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, our products may contain defects or fail to meet product specifications. Any failure or poor performance of our products could result in: • delayed market acceptance of our products; • delayed product shipments; • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or identify and correct the source of errors; • damage to our reputation and our customer relationships; • delayed recognition of sales or reduced sales; and/or • product liability claims or other claims for damages that may be caused by any product defects or performance failures. Our products are often critical to the performance of communications systems. Many of our supply agreements contain warranty provisions. If these provisions do not have meaningful limits that can be enforced or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a claim could have a material adverse effect on our business. Managing our inventory is complex and may include write-downs of excess or obsolete inventory. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is complicated by a number of factors, including the need to maintain a significant inventory of components that are not easy to obtain, and often must be purchased in bulk to ensure favorable pricing. This is further complicated by parts that require long lead times, and the fact that we operate and sell, manufacture and warehouse products in many locations around the world. These issues may cause us to purchase and maintain significant amounts of inventory. If this inventory is not used as expected based on anticipated levels of customer demand, it may become excess or obsolete. The existence of excess or obsolete inventory can result in sales price reductions and/or inventory write-downs, which could affect our business and results of operations adversely. We may encounter difficulties obtaining raw materials and supplies needed to make our products, and the prices of these materials and supplies are subject to fluctuation. Our ability to manufacture our products is dependent upon the availability of certain raw materials and supplies. In some instances these materials or supplies may be available from only one or a limited number of sources. The availability of these raw materials and supplies is subject to market forces beyond our control. From time to time, there may not be sufficient quantities of raw materials and supplies in the marketplace to meet customer demand for our products. The costs to obtain these raw materials and supplies are subject to price fluctuations, which may be substantial, because of global market demands. During fiscal 2010, we experienced net inflation in raw materials, primarily due to increases in several commodity markets, partially offset by our internal efficiency efforts and strategic sourcing partner selection. In fiscal 2011, we expect that global economic conditions and supply and demand shifts will continue to have an adverse effect on commodities. In addition, to the degree that certain regions experience an economic recovery, supply could tighten, providing additional upward price pressure. Circumstances relating to the availability and pricing of materials could change and our ability to mitigate price increases or to take advantage of price decreases in the future will depend upon a variety of factors, such as our purchasing power and the purchasing power of our customers. Many companies utilize the same raw materials and supplies in the production of their products as we use in our products. Companies with more resources than us may have a competitive advantage in obtaining raw materials and supplies due to greater purchasing power. Some raw materials or supplies may be subject to 20 Table of Contents regulatory actions, which may adversely affect available supplies. Furthermore, due to general economic conditions in the United States and globally, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties, which could result in increased delays, additional costs, or loss of a supplier. Reduced availability and higher prices of raw materials and supplies as well as potential delays in obtaining these items may affect our business, operating results and financial condition adversely. We cannot guarantee that sufficient quantities or quality of raw materials and supplies will be as readily available in the future, that they will be available at acceptable prices, or how the prices at which we sell our products will be impacted by the prices at which we, or any contract manufacturers we utilize, obtain raw materials or supplies. Our ability to pass increases in the prices of raw materials and supplies along to our customers is uncertain. Delays in implementing price increases or a failure to achieve market acceptance of future price increases may affect our results of operations adversely. Further, in an environment of falling commodities prices, we may be unable to sell higher-cost inventory before implementing price decreases, which may affect our results of operations adversely. If our manufacturing operations suffer production or shipping delays or if we do not have sufficient manufacturing capabilities, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We internally produce or rely on contract manufacturers to produce a wide range of finished products as well as components used in our finished products at various locations around the world. We also periodically realign our manufacturing capacities among various manufacturing facilities in an effort to improve efficiencies and our competitive position. Disruption of our ability to produce or distribute from any of these facilities due to mechanical failures, fires, electrical outages, shipping interruptions, labor issues, natural disasters or other reasons could impact our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner adversely. In addition, there are risks associated with actions we may take to realign manufacturing capacities among facilities, such as: potential disruptions in production capacity necessary to meet customer demand; decreases in production quality; disruptions in the availability of raw materials and supplies; delays in the movement of necessary tools and equipment among facilities; and adequate personnel to meet production demands caused by planned production shifts. In the event of any of these disruptions, we could lose sales, incur increased operating costs and suffer customer relations problems, which may affect our business and results of operations adversely. In addition, it is possible from time to time that we may not have sufficient production capacity to meet customer demand whether through our internal facilities or through contract manufacturers we utilize. In such an event we may lose sales opportunities and suffer customer relations problems, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. If contract manufacturers that we rely on to produce a significant portion of our products or key components of products encounter production quality, financial or other difficulties, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain products or key components of products. If we are unable to arrange for sufficient production capacity among our contract manufacturers or if our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our ability to operate our business and report financial results is dependent on maintaining effective information management systems. We rely on our information management systems to support critical business operations such as processing sales orders and invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, payroll and human resources, and financial reporting. We periodically implement upgrades to such systems or migrate one or more of our affiliates, facilities or operations from one system to another. In addition, when we acquire other companies we often take actions to migrate their information management systems to the systems we use. If we are unable to adequately maintain these systems to support our developing business requirements or effectively manage any upgrade or migration, we could encounter difficulties that may adversely affect our business, internal controls over financial reporting, financial results, or our ability to report such results timely and accurately. We are subject to risks associated with changes in commodity prices, interest rates, security prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. We face market risks from changes in certain commodity prices, security prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Market fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. We may reduce these risks through the use of 21 Table of Contents derivative financial instruments. As of September 30, 2010, we had derivative transactions in place to minimize the financial impact from most significant fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Interest rate exposure exists on our cash investments as interest income is negatively impacted when short-term interest rates decline. Additionally, we have exposure to increases in interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations. As of September 30, 2010, we minimized the exposure to rising interest rates on substantially all of our floating rate debt obligations through an interest rate swap which fixed the rate on our $200.0 million convertible bond maturing in 2013. We have exposure to foreign denominated revenues and operating expenses through our operations in various countries. Our largest exposure is to the Mexican peso. As of September 30, 2010, we mitigated a certain portion of our exposure to Mexican peso operating expenses throughout fiscal 2010 through forward contracts and costless collars. The forward contracts enable us to purchase Mexican pesos at specified rates and the collars establish a cap and a floor on the price at which we purchase pesos. We also are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk as a result of changes in intercompany balance sheet accounts and other balance sheet items. At September 30, 2010, these balance sheet exposures were mitigated through the use of foreign exchange forward contracts with maturities of approximately one month. The principal currency exposures being mitigated were the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Chinese renminbi, Czech koruna, euro, Mexican peso, Singapore dollar and South African rand. We may encounter litigation that has a material impact on our business. We are a party to various lawsuits, proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Many of these disputes may be resolved without formal litigation. The amount of monetary liability resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters cannot be determined at this time. As of September 30, 2010, we had recorded approximately $7.5 million in loss reserves for certain of these matters. Because of the uncertainty inherent in litigation, it is possible that unfavorable resolutions of these lawsuits, proceedings and claims could exceed the amount currently reserved by us and may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, purchases or sales of our stock by significant investors, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and new reports relating to our customers, trends in our markets or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Furthermore, components of the compensation of many of our key employees are dependent on the price of our common stock. Lack of positive performance in our stock price may affect our ability to retain key employees. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our shareholder rights agreement and Minnesota law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights agreement (also known as a “poison pill”) and Minnesota law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable, and could limit the price that investors are willing to pay for our common stock. These provisions include the following: • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals; • authorization for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; 22 Table of Contents • authorization for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock purchase rights upon a third party’s acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock; and • limitations on business combinations with interested shareholders. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of our company even though our shareholders would receive an attractive value for their shares, or a significant number of our shareholders believe such a proposed transaction would be in their best interest. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 