Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Below we describe some of these risks. Additional risks of which we currently are unaware or believe to be immaterial may also result in events that could impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our industry is highly competitive, and our product and services sales are subject to significant downward pricing pressure. Competition in the broadband network infrastructure equipment and services industry is intense. Overall spending for communications infrastructure products has not increased significantly in recent years, and spending levels are expected to remain relatively flat in the future. Spending on infrastructure equipment for next-generation networks such as FTTX products and wireless coverage and capacity solutions, however, is expected to increase. Our continued ability to compete with other manufacturers of communications equipment depends in part on whether we can continue to develop and effectively market next-generation infrastructure products. We believe our ability to compete with other manufacturers of communications equipment products and providers of related services depends primarily on our engineering, manufacturing and marketing skills; the price, quality and reliability of our products; our delivery and service capabilities; and our control of operating expenses. We have experienced and anticipate greater pricing pressures from our customers as well as our competitors. Our industry currently is characterized by many vendors pursuing relatively few large customers. As a result, our customers have the ability to exert significant pressure on us with respect to product pricing and other contractual terms. In recent years, a number of our large customers have engaged in business combination transactions (including the merger of SBC Communications and AT&T completed in November 2005 and the merger of AT&T and BellSouth completed in December 2006). Accordingly, we have fewer large-scale customers, and these customers have even greater scale and buying power. 13 Many of our competitors have more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, financial and personnel resources than us. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in the requirements of communications services providers, or offer more aggressive pricing. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in our gross margin. Gross margins vary among our product groups and fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of shifts in product mix (i.e., the amount of each type of product we sell in a particular quarter), the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices as products mature and we face competitive pricing pressure, and our ability to reduce manufacturing and other costs. We expect this fluctuation in gross profit to continue in the future. Also, new offerings such as our FTTX products typically have lower gross margins than our legacy products. As these new products increasingly account for a larger percentage of our sales, our gross margins are likely to be impacted negatively. We are becoming increasingly dependent on significant specific network expansion projects undertaken by our customers. Our business increasingly is focused on the sale of products, including our FTTX products, to support customer initiatives to expand broadband capabilities in their networks. These products increasingly have been deployed by our customers outside their central offices in connection with specific capital projects to increase network capabilities. Because of these project-specific product purchases by our customers, the short-term demand for our products can fluctuate significantly, and our ability to forecast sales from quarter to quarter has diminished substantially. This fluctuation can be further affected by the long sales cycles necessary to obtain contracts to supply equipment for these projects. These long sales cycles may result in significant effort expended with no resulting sales or sales that are not made in the anticipated quarter. In addition, competition among suppliers with respect to these capital projects can be intense, particularly because these projects often utilize new products that were not previously used in customers’ networks. We cannot give any assurance that these capital projects will continue or that our products will be selected for these equipment deployments. Our cost-reduction initiatives may not result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations. Over the past several years, we have implemented, and are continuing to implement, significant cost-reduction measures. These measures have been taken in an effort to improve our levels of profitability. We have incurred significant restructuring and impairment charges in connection with these cost-reduction efforts. If these measures are not fully completed or are not completed in a timely fashion, we may not realize their full potential benefit. In addition, the efforts to cut costs may not generate the savings and improvements in our operating margins and profitability we anticipate. Such efforts may also be disruptive to our operations. For example, cost savings measures may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond any planned reductions in force or increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, and adversely affect employee morale. Although we believe it is necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may also preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings, competitiveness or long-term prospects. Consolidation among our customers has resulted in our loss of customers and reduced revenue during the pendency of business combinations and related integration activities. We believe consolidation among our customers in the future will continue to permit them to increase market share and achieve greater economies of scale. Consolidation has impacted our business as our customers focus on completing business combinations and integrating their operations. In certain instances, 14 customers integrating large-scale acquisitions have reduced their purchases of network equipment during the integration period. For example, following the merger of SBC Communications with AT&T and the merger of AT&T with BellSouth, the combined companies initially deferred spending on certain network equipment purchases, which resulted in lower product sales by ADC to these companies. The impact of significant mergers of our customers on our business is likely to be unclear until sometime after such transactions are completed. After a consolidation occurs, a customer may choose to reduce the number of vendors from which it purchases equipment and may choose one of our competitors as its preferred vendor. There can be no assurance that we will continue to supply equipment to the surviving communications service provider after a business combination is completed. Our sales could be impacted negatively if one or more of our key customers substantially reduces orders for our products. Our customer base is relatively concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 45.5%, 44.0% and 38.5% of net sales for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, our largest customer, Verizon, accounted for 17.8%, 16.0% and 12.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The merger of AT&T and BellSouth has created another large customer for us. In fiscal 2007, the combined company accounted for approximately 15.4% of our sales. If we lose a significant customer for any reason, including consolidation among our major customers, our sales and gross profit will be impacted negatively. Also, in the case of products for which we believe potential revenue growth is the greatest, our sales remain highly concentrated with the major communications service providers. For example, we rely on Verizon for a large percentage of our sales of FTTX products. The loss of sales due to a decrease in orders from a key customer could require us to exit a particular business or product line or record impairment or restructuring charges. Our Professional Services business is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Most of our Professional Services are provided to customers in the United States. As a result of the merger of SBC Communications with AT&T and the merger of AT&T and BellSouth, our Professional Services business in the United States is heavily dependent upon sales to the combined company resulting from these mergers. To date, the combined company has deferred the deployment of certain new communications networks. If, over the long term, AT&T continues to delay or reduces the services we provide to it, we may not be successful in finding new customers to replace the lost sales for a period of time. Therefore, sales by our Professional Services business could decline substantially and have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and, to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The communications equipment industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing market conditions and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products using new technologies or the adoption of new industry standards can make our existing products, or products under development, obsolete or unmarketable. For example, FTTX product sales initiatives may impact sales of our non-fiber products negatively. In order to remain competitive and increase sales, we will need to adapt to these rapidly changing technologies, enhance our existing products and introduce new products to address the changing demands of our customers. We may not predict technological trends or the success of new products in the communications equipment market accurately. New product development often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new technologies and processes and substantial capital commitments. For example, during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, we invested significant resources in the development and marketing of a new line of automated copper cross-connect products. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, following a review of the market potential of these products, we curtailed all development and marketing 15 activities relating to this product line. This resulted in inventory and fixed asset write-offs. We do not know whether other new products and services we develop will gain market acceptance or result in profitable sales. Many of our competitors have greater engineering and product development resources than we do. Although we expect to continue to invest substantial resources in product development activities, our efforts to achieve and maintain profitability will require us to be selective and focused with our research and development expenditures. If we fail to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments, changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or if we experience any significant delays in product development or introduction, our business, operating results and financial condition could be affected adversely. We may not successfully close strategic acquisitions and, if these acquisitions are completed, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses with our existing operations. We recently acquired LGC and expect to complete our acquisition of Century Man in January 2008. In the future, we intend to acquire other companies and/or product lines that we believe are aligned with our current strategic focus. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to find appropriate candidates for acquisitions, reach agreement to acquire them, have the cash or other resources necessary to acquire them, or close strategic acquisitions because of the ability to obtain requisite shareholder or regulatory approvals or otherwise. The significant effort and management attention invested in a strategic acquisition may not result in a completed transaction. The impact of future acquisitions on our business, operating results and financial condition are not known at this time. In the case of LGC, Century Man and other businesses we may acquire in the future, we may have difficulty assimilating these businesses and their products, services, technologies and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Also, we may not be able to retain key management and other critical employees after an acquisition. We may also acquire unanticipated liabilities. In addition to these risks, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. If we seek to secure financing, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms. Based on current business operations and economic conditions, and anticipated cash flows from operations, we currently anticipate that our available cash resources (which include existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities), will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures to execute our near-term business plan. If our estimates are incorrect and we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may need to raise additional funds. In addition, if the cost of one or more of our strategic acquisition opportunities exceeds our existing resources, we may be required to seek additional capital. We currently do not have any significant available lines of credit or other significant credit facilities. We currently are negotiating the terms of a potential credit facility, but there can be no assurance that we can obtain this loan financing on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by obtaining a credit facility or issuing debt, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that could limit our operating flexibility and interest payments could dilute earnings per share. We recorded a significant impairment charge during the quarter ended October 31, 2007 to reduce the carrying value of certain auction rate securities we hold, and we currently expect to incur additional impairment charges with respect to auction rate securities in fiscal year 2008. Credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate auction rate securities that we classify as available-for-sale securities on our balance sheet. As of October 31, 2007, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $193.0 million. These securities represent interests in collateralized debt obligations, a portion of which are collateralized by pools of residential and commercial mortgages, interest-bearing debt obligations, and dividend-yielding preferred stock. Some of the underlying 16 collateral for the auction rate securities we hold consists of sub-prime mortgages. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $29.4 million to reduce the value of our auction rate securities to their estimated fair value of $163.6 million as of October 31, 2007. In November 2007, we sold at par $23.2 million of the auction-rate securities we held at October 31, 2007. Subsequently, we received account statements as of November 30, 2007 indicating that the fair value of our auction rate securities had declined approximately another $20.0 million since October 31, 2007. The estimated fair value of these securities could decrease or increase significantly in the future based on market conditions. The current par value of our auction-rate securities portfolio is $169.8 million. After adjustment for the $29.4 million impairment charge recorded as of October 31, 2007 and the estimated further approximately $20.0 million decline in the fair value of these securities since October 31, 2007, our auction rate securities have an estimated fair value of approximately $121.0 million as of November 30, 2007. As a result, we expect to record an additional impairment charge during the quarter ending January 31, 2008, the amount of which will depend on the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities as of January 31, 2008. In future periods, the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities could decline further based on market conditions, which could result in additional impairment charges. These charges could be substantial. Possible consolidation among our competitors could result in a loss of sales. Recently, a number of our competitors have engaged in business combination transactions, and we expect to see continued consolidation among communication equipment vendors. These business combinations may result in our competitors becoming financially stronger and obtaining broader product portfolios than us. As a result, consolidation could increase the resources of our competitors and negatively impact our product sales and our profitability. Our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including the following: • the volume and timing of orders from and shipments to our customers; • the overall level of capital expenditures by our customers; • work stoppages and other developments affecting the operations of our customers; • the timing of and our ability to obtain new customer contracts and the timing of revenue recognition; • the timing of new product and service announcements; • the availability of products and services; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services; • variations in the mix of products and services we sell; • the location and utilization of our production capacity and employees; and • the availability and cost of key components of our products. Our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues. If revenue levels in a particular quarter are lower than expected, our operating results will be affected adversely. In the future, we expect sales in our second and third fiscal quarters to be higher than sales in our other two fiscal quarters. First quarter results are usually adversely affected by the holiday season that extends from Thanksgiving through New Years Day and the preparation of annual capital spending budgets by many of our customers during the first fiscal quarter. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we anticipate that sales will be lower than sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. In addition, we expect fiscal 2008 fourth quarter sales to be lower than third quarter sales because capital spending by our customers usually declines in the fourth 17 quarter of the calendar year. As a result of our proposed acquisition of Century Man, in the future, our first and/or second fiscal quarter results may be adversely affected by lower sales in China due to the Lunar New Year holiday. The regulatory environment in which we and our customers operate is changing. Although our business is not subject to significant direct governmental regulation, the communications services provider industry in which our customers operate is subject to significant and changing federal and state regulation in the United States and regulation in other countries. The U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “Telecommunications Act”) lifted certain restrictions on the ability of communications services providers and other ADC customers to compete with one another. The Telecommunications Act also made other significant changes in the regulation of the telecommunications industry. These changes generally increased our opportunities to provide communications network infrastructure products to providers of Internet, data, video and voice networks. However, some of the changes resulting from the Telecommunications Act have diminished the return on additional investments by our customers in their networks, which has reduced demand for some of our products. In a 2003 ruling, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) terminated its “line-sharing” requirements, with the result that major telephone companies are no longer legally required to lease space to resellers of digital subscriber lines. The FCC ruling also allowed telephone companies to maintain sole ownership of newly-built networks that often use our FTTX products. While we believe that the ruling will generally have a positive effect on our business, there can be no assurance that the ruling will result in a long-term material increase in the sales of our products. The regulatory environment for communication services providers is also changing in other countries. In many countries, regulators are considering whether service providers should be required to provide access to their networks by competitors. For example, this issue is currently being debated in Germany and Australia. As a result, our FTTX initiatives in these countries have been delayed. Additional regulatory changes affecting the communications industry have occurred and are anticipated both in the United States and internationally. For example, a European Union directive relating to the restriction of hazardous substances (“RoHS”) in electrical and electronic equipment and a directive relating to waste electrical and electronic equipment (“WEEE”) have been and are being implemented in EU member states. Among other things, the RoHS directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including lead, in the manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment and the WEEE directive requires producers of electrical goods to be responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of these goods. Similar laws were passed in China in February 2006, as well as in South Korea in April 2007. The Chinese law became effective in March 2007. We understand governments in other countries are considering implementing similar laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with the RoHS and WEEE directives, or similar laws and regulations that have been and may be implemented in other countries, could result in reduced sales of our products, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, monetary penalties and other sanctions. New regulatory changes could alter demand for our products. In addition, recently announced or future regulatory changes could come under legal challenge and be altered, which could reverse the effect of such changes and their anticipated impact. Competition in our markets may intensify as the result of changes to existing or new regulations. Accordingly, changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Conditions in global markets could affect our operations. Our sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 39.2%, 41.4% and 43.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect sales outside the United States to remain a significant percentage of net sales in the future. In addition to sales and distribution activities in numerous countries, we conduct manufacturing or other operations in the following countries: Australia, Austria, 18 Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Puerto Rico, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States, Venezuela and Vietnam. Due to our sales and other operations outside the United States, we are subject to the risks of conducting business globally. These risks include the following: • local economic and market conditions; • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in or impositions of legislative or regulatory requirements; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and various laws in countries in which we are doing business; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • requirements to consult with or obtain the approval of works councils or other labor organizations to complete business initiatives; • tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and contract rights; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potentially adverse taxes and export and import requirements; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of non-U.S. laws and telecommunications standards. Our business is also subject to general geopolitical and environmental risks, such as terrorism, political and economic instability, changes in the costs of key resources such as crude oil, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships, natural disasters and other possible disruptive events such as pandemic illnesses. Economic conditions in many of the markets outside the United States in which we do business represent significant risks to us. Instability in our non-U.S. markets, such as the Middle East, Asia and Latin America, could have a negative impact on our sales and business operations in these markets, and we cannot predict whether these unstable conditions will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and other turmoil in the Middle East and the global war on terror also may have negative effects on our business operations. In addition to the effect of global economic instability on sales to customers outside the United States, sales to United States customers could be negatively impacted by these conditions. We have agreed to acquire Century Man, and, if this acquisition is completed, we will be subject to special risks relating to doing business in China. We have agreed to acquire Century Man, a provider of broadband connectivity equipment that conducts almost all of its business in China. After this acquisition is completed, our operations in China will be subject to significant political, economic and legal uncertainties. Changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on the operations of Century Man. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. However, there can be no assurance that the government will continue to pursue these policies, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption or other circumstances affecting China’s political and economic environment. 19 Although not permitted under Chinese law, corruption, extortion, bribery, payoffs and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in China. We must comply with U.S. laws prohibiting corrupt business practices outside the United States. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these laws. If our competitors in China engage in these practices, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. We maintain a business conduct program to prevent, deter and detect violations of law in the conduct of business throughout the world. We will conduct a review of Century Man’s business practices and will train our personnel in China on appropriate ethical and legal business standards. However, a risk will remain that our employees will engage in activities that violate laws or our corporate policies. This is particularly true in instances in which the employees of a company we may acquire may not have been previously accustomed to operating under similar standards. In the event an employee violates applicable laws pertaining to sales practices, accounting standards, facility operations or other business or operational requirements, we may face substantial penalties, and our business in China could be affected adversely. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, these protections are limited. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether these protections will be adequate, or whether our competitors will develop similar technology independently, without violating our proprietary rights. Rights that may be granted under any patent application in the future may not provide competitive advantages to us. Intellectual property protection in foreign jurisdictions may be limited or unavailable. Many of our competitors have substantially larger portfolios of patents and other intellectual property rights than we do. As competition in the communications network equipment industry has intensified and the functionality of products has continued to overlap, we believe that network equipment manufacturers increasingly are becoming subject to infringement claims. We have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices from third parties (including some of our competitors) claiming that we are infringing their patents or other proprietary rights. We also have asserted patent claims against certain third parties. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any patent litigation brought against us by third-parties, or that we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents on commercially reasonable terms. Unfavorable resolution of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time and attention, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into expensive royalty or licensing agreements. A third party may not be willing to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement on acceptable terms, if at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license, or develop or license non-infringing technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon our senior management and other critical employees. Like all communications technology companies, our success is dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management personnel and other critical employees, including those in customer service and product development functions. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate these employees is critical to our success. In addition, because we may acquire one or more businesses in the future, our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain and integrate our own personnel with personnel from acquired entities that are necessary to the continued success or the successful integration of the acquired businesses. Our continuing initiatives to streamline operations as well as the challenging business environment in which we operate may cause uncertainty in our employee base about whether they will have future employment with us. This uncertainty may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and attract key personnel. 20 Compliance with internal control requirements is expensive and poses certain risks. We expect to incur significant continuing costs, including accounting fees and staffing costs, in order to maintain compliance with the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, if we complete acquisitions in the future, our ability to integrate operations of the acquired company could impact our compliance with Section 404 of that legislation. Following the fiscal quarter ended February 2, 2007, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the timing of the recording of certain impairment charges incurred in connection with the classification of one of our business units as a discontinued operation. As a result of the need to record these impairment charges during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, we were required to restate our financial statements for that fiscal year. In the future, if we fail to complete the annual Section 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Product defects or the failure of our products to meet specifications could cause us to lose customers and revenue or to incur unexpected expenses. If our products do not meet our customers’ performance requirements, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, our products may contain defects or fail to meet product specifications. Any failure or poor performance of our products could result in: • delayed market acceptance of our products; • delayed product shipments; • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or identify and correct the source of errors; • damage to our reputation and our customer relationships; • delayed recognition of sales or reduced sales; and • product liability claims or other claims for damages that may be caused by any product defects or performance failures. Our products are often critical to the performance of communications systems. Many of our supply agreements contain limited warranty provisions. If these contractual limitations are unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a claim could harm our business. We may encounter difficulties obtaining raw materials and supplies needed to make our products, and the prices of these materials and supplies are subject to fluctuation. Our ability to manufacture our products is dependent upon the availability of certain raw materials and supplies. The availability of these raw materials and supplies is subject to market forces beyond our control. From time to time, there may not be sufficient quantities of raw materials and supplies in the marketplace to meet customer demand for our products. In addition, the costs to obtain these raw materials and supplies are subject to price fluctuations because of global market demands. Some raw materials or supplies may be subject to regulatory actions, which may affect available supplies. Many companies utilize the same raw materials and supplies in the production of their products as we use in our products. Companies with more resources than us may have a competitive advantage in obtaining raw materials and supplies due to greater purchasing power. Reduced supply and higher prices of raw materials and supplies may affect our business, operating results and financial condition adversely. 21 We may encounter litigation that has a material impact on our business. We are a party to various lawsuits, proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Many of these disputes may be resolved without formal litigation. The amount of monetary liability resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters cannot be determined at this time. As of October 31, 2007, we had recorded approximately $7.6 million in loss reserves for certain of these matters. In light of the reserves we have recorded, at this time we believe the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits, proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because of the uncertainty inherent in litigation, it is possible that unfavorable resolutions of these lawsuits, proceedings and claims could exceed the amount currently reserved and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with changes in commodity prices, interest rates, security prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. We face market risks from changes in certain commodity prices, security prices and interest rates. Market fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. We may reduce this risk through the use of derivative financial instruments, although we have not used such instruments for several years. We also are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary risk is the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency denominated operating sales and expenses. Our largest exposure comes from the Mexican peso. We also are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk as a result of changes in intercompany balance sheet accounts and other balance sheet items. At October 31, 2007, these balance sheet exposures were mitigated through the use of foreign exchange forward contracts with maturities of less than 12 months. The principal currency exposures being mitigated were the Australian dollar and the euro. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and new reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, components of the compensation of many of our key employees are dependent on the price of our common stock. Lack of positive performance in our stock price may affect our ability to retain key employees. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our shareholder rights agreement and Minnesota law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights agreement (also known as a “poison pill”) and Minnesota law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder 22 may consider favorable, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for our common stock. These provisions include the following: • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals; • authorization for our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; • authorization for our board of directors to issue preferred stock purchase rights upon a third party’s acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock; and • limitations on business combinations with interested shareholders. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of our company even though our shareholders would receive an attractive value for their shares, or a significant number of our shareholders believe such a proposed transaction would be in their best interest. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 