Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks, some of which are described below. Additional risks of which we currently are unaware or believe to be immaterial may also result in events that could impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our industry is highly competitive and subject to significant downward pricing pressure for our products. Competition in the communications equipment and related services industry is very intense. We believe our ability to compete with other manufacturers of communications equipment products and related services depends primarily on our engineering, manufacturing and marketing skills, the price, quality and reliability of our products, our delivery and service capabilities and our control of operating expenses. We have experienced and anticipate greater pricing pressures from our customers as well as current and future competitors. Our industry currently is characterized by many vendors pursuing relatively few and very large customers, which provides our customers with the ability to exert significant pressure on their suppliers, both in terms of pricing and contractual terms. Recently, many of our larger customers have engaged in merger and acquisition activities. As a result, we expect there to be fewer large-scale customers, and those customers who remain will have even greater scale and buying power to leverage against their vendors. Many of our competitors have more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, financial and personnel resources than us. As a result, other competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in communications services providers’ requirements, or offer more aggressive price reductions. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in our gross margin. Our gross margins vary among our product groups and have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of shifts in product mix (i.e. the amount of each product we sell in any particular quarter), the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices and our ability to reduce manufacturing and other costs. We expect such fluctuation in gross profit to continue in the future. Further, newer product offerings such as our FTTX-based products typically have lower gross margins than our older legacy products. As these newer products become a larger part of our sales, there likely will be an adverse impact on our gross margins. We are becoming increasingly dependent on significant capital deployment initiatives driven by our customers. Our business increasingly is focused upon the sale of products serving significant customer initiatives for expanded broadband capabilities deep into their networks. Examples of products serving these initiatives include our FTTX solutions and products used in enterprise networks. These generally are utilized outside the central offices of our customers, where we traditionally sold most of our products, and they often are deployed 12 Table of Contents in connection with the construction of specific network projects. To date, our experience has been that the deployment of capital for such network projects is driven by our customers’ priorities and the needs of their specific projects. For this reason, the short-term demand for our products can fluctuate significantly and our ability to forecast sales from quarter to quarter is diminished significantly. In addition, the competition to sell our products can be very intense as the projects often utilize new products that were not previously used in networks. The continued sale of these products by us also will depend upon the continued build-out by our customers of networks that utilize these products. We cannot assure that these deployments will continue or that our products will be selected for these deployments on a consistent basis. Our cost-reduction initiatives may not result in the anticipated savings or more efficient operations and may harm our operations. Over the past several years we have implemented, and we are continuing to implement, significant cost cutting measures. These measures are taken in an effort to sustain and improve our levels of profitability given our highly competitive industry. In taking these measures we incur significant restructuring and impairment charges. Our ability to realize benefit from these measures is contingent on our ability to complete them in a timely fashion as well as on our ability to continue to operate our business effectively. If cost cutting measures are not completed in a timely fashion we may not realize their full potential benefit. Further, the efforts to cut costs may not generate savings and improvements in our operating margins and profitability as we expect. The efforts may, in fact, be disruptive to our operations. For instance, cost savings measures may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond any planned reductions in workforce or increased difficulties in managing our day-to-day operations. Although we believe it has been and remains necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, reductions in our operations may make it more difficult to operate successfully compared to other companies in our industry. Cost reduction initiatives might also preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings, competitiveness or long-term prospects. Consolidation among our customers could result in our losing a customer or experiencing a slowdown as integration takes place. We believe there likely will be continued consolidation among our customers in order for them to increase market share, diversify product portfolios and achieve greater economies of scale. Consolidation may impact our business as our customers focus on integrating their operations. In certain instances, customers engaged in integrating large-scale acquisitions have scaled back their purchases of network equipment while the integration is ongoing. Further, once consolidation occurs, our customers may choose to reduce the number of vendors they use to source their equipment, although we do not believe this has occurred to date. After a consolidation occurs, there can be no assurance that we will continue to supply equipment to the surviving communications service provider. The impact of significant mergers on our business is likely to be unclear until sometime after such transactions have closed. Our sales could be negatively impacted if one or more of our key customers substantially reduces orders for our products. Our customer base is relatively concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 44.0%, 38.5% and 38.5% of net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, our largest customer, Verizon accounted for 16.0%, 12.3% and 11.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The recently completed merger of AT&T and BellSouth has created another large customer for us. In fiscal 2006 AT&T, BellSouth and Cingular (who are now combined in the merger) collectively represented approximately 14.9% of our sales. If we lose a significant customer for any reason, including consolidation among our customer base, our sales and gross margins would be impacted negatively. Further, in the product areas where we believe the potential for revenue growth is most pronounced, our sales remain highly concentrated with the major telephone companies. For instance, we rely heavily on Verizon’s business for a large percentage of our sales in the FTTX space. The loss of sales due to a decrease in orders from a key customer for various reasons 13 Table of Contents could require us to record additional impairment and restructuring charges or exit a particular business or product line. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The communications equipment industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing market conditions and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements by our competitors. The introduction of products using new technologies or the adoption of new industry standards can make our existing products, or products under development, obsolete or unmarketable. For example, FTTX initiatives may impact sales of non-fiber products negatively. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need to adapt to these rapidly changing technologies, enhance our existing solutions and introduce new solutions to address our customers’ changing demands. We may not predict technological trends or the success of new products in the communications equipment market accurately. New product development often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new technologies and processes and a substantial capital commitment. In addition, we do not know whether our products and services will meet with market acceptance or be profitable. Many of our competitors have greater engineering and product development resources than us. Although we expect to continue to invest substantial resources in product development activities, our efforts to achieve and maintain profitability will require us to be more selective and focused with our research and development expenditures. If we fail to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments, changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or if we have any significant delays in product development or introduction, our business, operating results and financial condition could be affected adversely. We may not be able successfully to close strategic acquisitions and strategic changes to our product portfolio may not yield the benefits that we expect. As we refine our strategic focus, we have divested or ceased operating numerous product lines and businesses that either were not profitable or did not match this strategic focus. We may make further divestitures or closures of product lines and businesses. In addition, we intend to seek acquisitions of both companies and product lines that we believe are aligned with our current strategic focus. As occurred with our attempted merger with Andrew Corporation, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to close strategic acquisitions we may announce because of the ability to obtain requisite shareowner or regulatory approvals or otherwise. As such, the significant effort and management attention associated with completing a strategic acquisition may never result in a closed transaction. Further, the impact of potential changes to our product portfolio and the effect of such changes on our business, operating results and financial condition are evolving and not fully known at this time. If we acquire other businesses in our areas of strategic focus, we may have difficulty assimilating these businesses and their products, services, technologies and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition materially. Furthermore, we may not be able to retain key management, technical and sales personnel after an acquisition. In addition to these integration risks, if we acquire new businesses, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or product lines could also have disruptive effects and may cause us to incur material expenses. If we seek to secure financing, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms. Also, if we are able to secure financing, our shareowners may experience dilution of their ownership interest or we may be subject to limitations on our operations. We currently anticipate that our available cash resources, which include existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital 14 Table of Contents expenditures to execute our near-term business plan, based on current business operations and economic conditions. If our estimates are incorrect and we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may need to raise additional funds. In addition, if one or more of our strategic acquisition opportunities exceeds our existing resources, we may be required to seek additional capital. We currently do not have any significant available lines of credit or other significant credit facilities, and we are not certain that we can obtain commercial bank financing on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or equity-related securities, our shareowners may experience dilution of their ownership interests and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that could limit our operating flexibility and interest payments could dilute earnings per share. Possible consolidation among our competitors could result in a loss of sales. We expect to see continued consolidation among communication equipment vendors. This could result in our competitors becoming financially stronger and obtaining broader product portfolios. It is possible that such consolidation could lead to a loss of sales for us as our competitors increase their resources through consolidation. Our operating results fluctuate significantly. If we miss financial expectations, our stock price could decline. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. It is likely that our operating results in some periods will be below investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly earnings may be caused by many factors, including without limitation: • the volume and timing of orders from and shipments to our customers; • the overall level of capital expenditures by our customers; • work stoppages and other developments affecting the operations of our customers; • the timing of and our ability to obtain new customer contracts and revenue recognition; • the timing of new product and service announcements; • the availability of products and services; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services; • variations in the mix of products and services we sell; • the location and utilization of our production capacity and employees; and • the availability and cost of key components of our products. Our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues. If revenue levels in a particular period are lower than expected, our operating results will be affected adversely. In addition, we expect future sales in our first fiscal quarter will be lower than in other quarters. This primarily is because of the holiday season that extends from Thanksgiving to the New Year in that quarter and the development of annual capital spending budgets that many of our customers undertake during that time frame. In addition, in both fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 our sales in the fourth quarter were sequentially lower than third quarter sales in part due to customer inventory build-ups. The regulatory environment in which we and our customers operate is changing. Although our business is not subject to a significant amount of direct regulation, the communications service industry in which our customers operate is subject to significant and evolving federal and state regulation in the United States as well as regulation in other countries. The United States Telecommunications 15 Table of Contents Act of 1996 (the “Act”) lifted certain restrictions on the ability of companies, including the communications services providers and other ADC customers, to compete with one another. The Act also made other significant changes in the regulation of the telecommunications industry. These changes generally increased our opportunities to provide solutions for our customers’ Internet, data, video and voice needs. The communications services providers have stated that some of these changes have diminished the profitability of additional investments made by them in their networks, which reduces their demand for our products. The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) has ended the practice of forced “line-sharing,” which means that major telephone companies no longer legally are mandated to lease space to DSL resellers. This ruling also allowed major telephone companies to maintain sole ownership of newly built networks that include fiber deployment (i.e., FTTX). While we believe that this ruling will benefit us, there can be no assurance as to what, if any, impact it will have on sales of our products. In addition, the regulatory environment in other countries regarding whether companies must open their networks to competitors is under active discussion. For instance, debates are currently ongoing regarding this issue in both Germany and Australia and the uncertainty over the issue may serve to delay FTTX initiatives in both countries. Additional regulatory changes affecting the communications industry are anticipated both in the United States and internationally. A European Union directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (“WEEE”) and the restriction of hazardous substances (“RoHS”) in such equipment is being implemented in member states. The directive sets a framework for producers’ obligations in relation to manufacturing (including the amounts of named hazardous substances contained in products sold) and labeling as well as treatment, recovery and recycling of electronic products in the European Union. We have established policies and procedures to comply with these directives. In addition, we understand governments in other parts of the world are considering implementing similar laws and regulations. For instance, similar laws in China are expected to become effective as soon as March 1, 2007. Our failure to comply properly with regulations related to WEEE and RoHS, or similar laws and regulations that may be implemented elsewhere in the world, could result in reduced sales of our products and inventory buildups that could result in substantial write-offs of inventory. Each of these regulatory changes could alter demand for our products. Recently announced or future changes could also come under legal challenge and be altered, thereby reversing the effect of such regulations or changes and the impact we expected. In addition, competition in our markets could intensify as the result of changes to existing or new regulations. Accordingly, changes in the regulatory environment could affect our business and results of operations adversely. Conditions in global markets could affect our operations. Our sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 41.4%, 43.3% and 36.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect non-U.S. sales to remain a significant percentage of net sales in the future. In addition to sales and distribution in numerous countries, we own or lease operations located in: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Puerto Rico, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States, Venezuela and Vietnam. Due to our non-U.S. sales and operations, we are subject to the risks of conducting business globally. These risks include, without limitation: • local economic and market conditions; • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in or impositions of legislative or regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • requirements to consult with or obtain the approval of works councils or other labor bodies to complete business initiatives; • tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • longer payment cycles; 16 Table of Contents • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and contract rights; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potentially adverse taxes; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of non-U.S. laws and telecommunications standards. We also are subject to general geopolitical and environmental risks, such as terrorism, political and economic instability, changes in the costs of key resources such as oil, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships, natural disasters and other possible disruptive events such as pandemic illnesses. Economic conditions in many of the non-U.S. markets in which we do business represent significant risks to us. We cannot predict whether our sales and business operations in these markets will be affected adversely by these conditions. Instability in non-U.S. markets, which we believe is most likely to occur in the Middle East, Asia and Latin America, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and other turmoil in the Middle East and the global war on terror also may have negative effects on the operating results of our business. In addition to the effect of global economic instability on non-U.S. sales, sales to United States customers could be impacted negatively by these conditions. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, these protections are limited. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether such protection will be adequate, or whether our competitors can develop similar technology independently without violating our proprietary rights. In addition, rights that may be granted under any patent application in the future may not provide competitive advantages to us. Intellectual property protection in foreign jurisdictions may be limited or unavailable. In addition, many of our competitors have substantially larger portfolios of patents and other intellectual property rights than us. As the competition in the communications equipment industry has intensified and the functionality of products further overlap, we believe that companies increasingly are becoming subject to infringement claims. We have received and may continue to receive notices from third parties, including some of our competitors, claiming that we are infringing third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We also have asserted certain of our patents against third parties. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any litigation over third-party claims, or whether we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents on commercially reasonable terms. It is possible that unfavorable resolution of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time, attention and our resources, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which could be expensive. A third party may not be willing to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement on acceptable terms, if at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop or license non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and operating results could be affected adversely. We are dependent upon key personnel. Like all technology companies, our success is dependent on the efforts and abilities of our employees. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled employees is critical to our success. In addition, because we may acquire one or more businesses in the future, our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain and integrate our own personnel with personnel from acquired entities who are necessary to the continued success or the successful integration of the acquired businesses. Our continuing initiatives to streamline operations as well as the challenging business environment in which we operate may cause uncertainty in our employee base about whether they will have future employment with us. This uncertainty may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and attract key personnel. 17 Table of Contents Internal Controls. We expect to incur continuing costs, including accounting fees and staffing costs, in order to maintain compliance with the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Further, if we complete acquisitions in the future, our ability to integrate operations of the acquired company could impact our compliance with Section 404. In the future, if we fail to complete the Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation or to the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Product defects or the failure of our products to meet specifications could cause us to lose customers and revenue or to incur unexpected expenses. If our products do not meet our customers’ performance requirements, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, our products may contain defects or fail to meet the product specifications. Any failure or poor performance of our products could result in: • delayed market acceptance of our products; • delayed product shipments; • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or identify and correct the source of errors; • damage to our reputation and our customer relationships; • delayed recognition of sales or reduced sales; and • product liability claims or other claims for damages that may be caused by any product defects or performance failures. Our products are often critical to the performance of communications systems. Many of our supply agreements contain limited warranty provisions. If these contractual limitations are unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a claim could harm our business. We may encounter difficulties obtaining raw materials and supplies needed to make our products, and the prices of these materials and supplies are subject to fluctuation. Our ability to produce our products is dependent upon the availability of certain raw materials and supplies. The availability of these raw materials and supplies is subject to market forces beyond our control. From time to time, there may not be sufficient quantities of raw materials and supplies in the marketplace to meet the customer demand for our products. In addition, the costs to obtain these raw materials and supplies are subject to price fluctuations because of global market demands. Further, some raw materials or supplies may be subject to regulatory actions, which may affect available supplies. Many companies utilize the same raw materials and supplies in the production of their products as we use in our products. Companies with more resources than us may have a competitive advantage in obtaining raw materials and supplies due to greater purchasing power. Reduced supply and higher prices of raw materials and supplies may affect our business, operating results and financial condition adversely. 18 Table of Contents We rely upon our contract manufacturing relationships. We significantly rely on contract manufacturers to make certain of our products on our behalf. If these contract manufacturers do not fulfill their obligations to us, or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. We may outsource additional functions in the future. We may encounter litigation that has a material impact on our business. We are a party to various lawsuits, proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Many of these disputes may be resolved amicably without resort to formal litigation. The amount of monetary liability resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters cannot be determined at this time. As of October 31, 2006, we had recorded approximately $5.1 million in loss reserves for certain of these matters. In light of the reserves we have recorded, at this time we believe the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits, proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because of the uncertainty inherent in litigation, it is possible that unfavorable resolutions of these lawsuits, proceedings and claims could exceed the amount currently reserved and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with changes in commodity prices, interest rates, security prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. We face market risks from changes in certain commodity prices, security prices and interest rates. Market fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. We may reduce this risk through the use of derivative financial instruments, although we have not used such instruments for several years. We do not enter into derivative instruments for the purpose of speculation. Also, we are exposed to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. From time to time, we hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. The objective of this program is to protect our net monetary assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies from fluctuations due to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We attempt to minimize exposure to currencies in which hedging instruments are unavailable or prohibitively expensive by managing our operating activities and net assets position. At October 31, 2006, the principal currencies for which we have implemented hedging strategies are the Australian dollar and the euro. Our largest exposure of foreign currency exchange risk comes from the Mexican peso. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. Based on the trading history of our common stock and the nature of the market for publicly traded securities of companies in our industry, we believe that some factors have caused and are likely to continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations could occur from day-to-day or over a longer period of time. The factors that may cause such fluctuations include, without limitation: • announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors; • quarterly fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of our competitors or our customers; • customer contract awards to us or our competitors; 19 Table of Contents • increased competition with our competitors or among our customers; • consolidation among our competitors or customers; • disputes concerning intellectual property rights; • the financial health of ADC, our competitors or our customers; • developments in telecommunications regulations; • general conditions in the communications equipment industry; • general economic conditions in the U.S. or internationally; and • rumors or speculation regarding ADC’s future business results and actions. In addition, stocks of companies in our industry in the past have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. This market volatility may affect the market price of our common stock adversely. We have not in the past and do not intend in the foreseeable future to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have not in the past and currently do not pay any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance our operations and for general corporate purposes. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our shareowner rights plan and Minnesota law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareowner rights plan (also known as a “poison pill”) and Minnesota law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareowner may consider favorable and may limit the market price for our common stock. These provisions include the following: • advance notice requirements for shareowner proposals; • authorization for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareowner approval; • authorization for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock purchase rights upon a third party’s acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock; and • limitations on business combinations with interested shareowners. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of ADC even though our shareowners would receive an attractive value for their shares or a significant number of our shareowners believe such a proposed transaction would be in their best interest. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 