ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, important factors may cause actual results to differ materially from any future expected results based on performance expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements made by us, including known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are not possible to predict or control. Several of these factors are described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but the factors described in filings are not the only risks that are faced. Roll Demand An unprecedented increase in steel production prior to 2010, particularly in China and certain other developing countries, had created a severe shortage of rolling mill roll production capacity throughout the world. This shortage resulted in our Forged and Cast Rolls segment receiving orders and contracts for the supply of rolls for several years into the future. Cancellation of such orders and contracts or delays in acceptance of delivery of rolls by customers may result in potential adverse impact on financial results and be the subject of contract renegotiation or even litigation. Cyclical Demand for Products/Economic Downturns A significant portion of our sales consists of rolling mill rolls to customers in the global steel industry which can be periodically impacted by economic or cyclical downturns. Such downturns, the timing and length of which are difficult to predict, may reduce the demand for and sales of our forged and cast steel rolls both in the United States and the rest of the world. Lower demand for rolls may also adversely impact profitability as other roll producers, which compete with us, lower selling prices in the market place in order to fill their manufacturing capacity. Cancellation of orders or deferral of delivery of rolls may occur and produce an adverse impact on financial results. Steel Industry Consolidation Globally, the steel industry has undergone structural change by way of consolidation and mergers. In certain markets, the resultant reduction in the number of steel plants and the increased buying power of the enlarged steel producing companies may put pressure on the selling prices and profit margins of rolls. Export Sales Exports are a significant proportion of our sales. Historically, changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly in respect of the U.S. dollar and the Euro, have impacted the export of our products and may do so again in the future. Other factors which may adversely impact export sales and operating results include political and economic instability, export controls, changes in tax laws and tariffs and new indigenous producers in overseas markets. A reduction in the level of export sales may have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, exchange rate changes may allow foreign roll suppliers to compete in our home markets. Capital Spending Each of our businesses is susceptible to the general level of economic activity, particularly as it impacts industrial and construction capital spending. A downturn in capital spending in the United States and elsewhere may reduce demand for and sales of our air handling, power generation and refrigeration equipment, and rolling mill rolls. Lower demand may also reduce profit margins due to our competitors and us striving to maximize manufacturing capacity by lowering prices. Prices and Availability of Commodities We use certain commodities in the manufacture of our products. These include steel scrap, ferroalloys and energy. Any sudden price increase may cause a reduction in profit margins or losses where fixed-priced contracts have been accepted or increases cannot be obtained in future selling prices. In addition, there may be curtailment in electricity or gas supply which would adversely impact production. Shortage of critical materials while driving up costs may be of such severity as to disrupt production, all of which may impact sales and profitability. Labor Agreements We have several key operations which are subject to multi-year collective bargaining agreements with our hourly work force. While we believe we have excellent relations with our unions, there is the risk of industrial action at the expiration of an agreement if contract negotiations break down, which may disrupt manufacturing and impact results of operations. 9 ampco pittsburgh | 2010 annual report Dependence on Certain Equipment Our principal business relies on certain unique equipment such as electric arc furnaces and forge presses. If any such unique equipment is out of operation for an extended period, it may result in a significant reduction in our sales and earnings. Loss of certain subcontractors may have a similar impact. Asbestos Litigation Our subsidiaries, and in some cases, we, are defendants in numerous claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos-containing components historically used in certain products of our subsidiaries. Through year-end 2010, our insurance has covered a substantial majority of our settlement and defense costs. We believe that the estimated costs net of anticipated insurance recoveries of our pending and future asbestos legal proceedings for the next ten years will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no assurance that our subsidiaries or we will not be subject to significant additional claims in the future or that our subsidiaries’ ultimate liability with respect to asbestos claims will not present significantly greater and longer lasting financial exposure than provided for in our consolidated financial statements. Similarly, although the Corporation believes that the assumptions employed in valuing its insurance coverage were reasonable, there are other assumptions that could have been employed that would have resulted in materially lower insurance recovery projections. The ultimate net liability with respect to such pending and any unasserted claims is subject to various uncertainties, including the following: • the number of claims that are brought in the future; • the costs of defending and settling these claims; • insolvencies among our insurance carriers and the risk of future insolvencies; • the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require damage payments in amounts greater than the amounts for which we have historically settled claims; • possible changes in the litigation environment or federal and state law governing the compensation of asbestos claimants; • the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may increase our costs; and • the risk that our insurance will not cover as much of our asbestos liabilities as anticipated. Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is possible that the ultimate liability could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity in the future. Environmental Matters We are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and disposal of wastes and which may require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. We could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Corporation has no unresolved staff comments. ampco pittsburgh | 2010 annual report 10 