Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, there may be events in the future that we are not able to predict accurately or control which may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable law, we assume no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, events or otherwise. – PART I – ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Ampco-Pittsburgh Corporation (the “Corporation”) was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. The Corporation, individually or together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is also referred to herein as the “Registrant”. The Corporation classifies its businesses in two segments: Forged and Cast Engineered Products and Air and Liquid Processing. ACQUISITIONS On July 29, 2015, the Corporation acquired business and assets of Alloys Unlimited & Processing, Inc. (“AUP”), a supplier of specialty tool, alloy, and carbon steel round bar, as well as a provider of precision saw cutting, machining, rough turning and boring, heat treating and trepanning services to customers nationwide. The purchase price was $5 million and was funded by available cash. The business is now part of our Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment. On March 3, 2016, the Corporation, through its indirect subsidiary Ampco UES Sub, Inc., completed an acquisition of Åkers AB and certain of its affiliated companies (collectively the “Åkers Group”) from Altor Fund II GP Limited. The base purchase price paid by the Corporation for the Åkers Group was approximately $75 million (subject to certain post-closing adjustments) and was payable $29 million in cash, $26 million in the form of a three-year note, and $20 million in shares of common stock of the Corporation. The business is now part of our Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment and is expected to approximately double the sales of the segment. With the acquisition of Åkers Group, the roll business of the Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment of the Corporation is now operating under the name “Union Electric Åkers.” It constitutes the majority of the Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS The sales and operating profit of the Corporation’s two segments and the identifiable assets attributable to both segments for the three years ended December 31, 2015 are set forth in Note 19 (Business Segments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Forged and Cast Engineered Products Segment Union Electric Steel Corporation produces ingot and forged products that service a wide variety of industries globally. It specializes in the production of forged hardened steel rolls used in cold rolling by producers of steel, aluminum and other metals 1 Table of Contents throughout the world. In addition, it produces ingot and open die forged products which are used in the gas and oil industry and the aluminum and plastic extrusion industries. Although currently representing a minor portion of the segment’s business activity, sales of ingot and open die forged products are expected to grow and become a more significant portion of this segment’s business activity. Union Electric Steel Corporation is headquartered in Carnegie, Pennsylvania with three manufacturing facilities in Pennsylvania, one in Indiana and one in Ohio. It is one of the largest producers of forged hardened steel rolls in the world. In addition to a few domestic competitors, several major European, South American and Asian manufacturers also compete in both the domestic and foreign markets. In 2007, a subsidiary of Union Electric Steel Corporation became a 49% partner in a joint venture in China to manufacture large forged backup rolls, principally in weights and sizes larger than those which can be made in the subsidiary’s facilities in the United States. Union Electric Steel UK Limited produces cast rolls for hot and cold strip mills, medium/heavy section mills and plate mills in a variety of iron and steel qualities. It is located in Gateshead, England and is a major supplier of cast rolls to the metalworking industry worldwide. It primarily competes with European, Asian and North and South American companies in both the domestic and foreign markets. Union Electric Steel UK Limited is a 25% partner in a Chinese joint venture which produces cast rolls. The following entities became indirect subsidiaries of Union Electric Steel Corporation as a result of the acquisition of the Åkers Group. Åkers Sweden AB produces cast rolls for hot strip finishing, roughing mills and plate mills and medium/heavy section mills in a variety of iron and steel qualities. It is located in Åkers Styckebruk, Sweden. Åkers Valji Ravne d.o.o. produces forged rolls for cluster mills and Z-Hi mills, work rolls for narrow and wide strip and aluminum mills, back-up rolls for narrow strip mills, as well as leveling rolls and shafts. It is located in Ravne, Slovenia. Shanxi Åkers TISCO Roll Co. Ltd., is a joint venture between TISCO and Åkers AB in which Åkers AB holds a 60% interest, produces cast hot strip mill work rolls. It is located in Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, China. National Roll Company is a division of Åkers National Roll Co. that produces cast rolls for hot and cold strip mills, as well as plate mills. It is located in Avonmore, Pennsylvania. Vertical Seal Company is a division of Åkers National Roll Co. that manufactures bearings, bushings, key and keyless bearing sleeves, as well as provides a number of services, including rebuild of mill spare parts, chock inspection and repair, and onsite inspections and installations. It is located in Pleasantville, Pennsylvania. Air and Liquid Processing Segment Aerofin Division of Air & Liquid Systems Corporation produces custom-engineered finned tube heat exchange coils and related heat transfer products for a variety of industries including fossil fuel and nuclear power generation, automotive, industrial process and HVAC, and is located in Lynchburg, Virginia. Buffalo Air Handling Division of Air & Liquid Systems Corporation produces large custom air handling systems used in commercial, institutional and industrial buildings and is located in Amherst, Virginia. Buffalo Pumps Division of Air & Liquid Systems Corporation manufactures a line of centrifugal pumps for the refrigeration, power generation and marine defense industries and is located in North Tonawanda, New York. All three of the divisions in this segment are principally represented by a common independent sales organization and have several major competitors. In both segments, the products are dependent on engineering, principally custom designed, and are sold to sophisticated commercial and industrial users located throughout the world. The Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment has two international customers which constituted approximately 33% of its sales in 2015. The loss of both of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the segment. 2 Table of Contents For additional information on the products produced and financial information about each segment, see Note 19 (Business Segments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Raw Materials Raw materials used in both segments are generally available from many sources and neither segment is dependent upon any single supplier for any raw material. Substantial volumes of raw materials used by each segment are subject to significant variations in price. The Corporation’s subsidiaries generally do not purchase or commit for the purchase of a major portion of raw materials significantly in advance of the time they require such materials but do make forward commitments for the supply of natural gas and certain commodities (copper and aluminum). See Note 11 (Derivative Instruments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Patents While the Corporation and its subsidiaries hold some patents, trademarks and licenses, in the opinion of management they are not material to either segment, other than in protecting the goodwill associated with the names under which products are sold. Backlog The backlog of orders at December 31, 2015 was approximately $142 million compared to a backlog of $168 million at year-end 2014. Approximately 19% of the backlog is expected to be released after 2016. Competition The Corporation faces considerable competition from a large number of companies in both segments. The Corporation believes, however, that its subsidiaries are significant factors in each of the niche markets which they serve. Competition in both segments is based on quality, service, price and delivery. For additional information, see “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Research and Development As part of an overall strategy to develop new markets and maintain leadership in each of the industry niches served, the Corporation’s subsidiaries in both segments incur expenditures for research and development. The activities that are undertaken are designed to develop new products, improve existing products and processes, enhance product quality, adapt products to meet customer specifications and reduce manufacturing costs. In the aggregate, these expenditures approximated $1.14 million in 2015, $1.33 million in 2014 and $1.41 million in 2013. Environmental Protection Compliance Costs Expenditures for environmental control matters were not material to either segment in 2015 and such expenditures are not expected to be material in 2016. Employees On December 31, 2015, the Corporation and its subsidiaries had 1,027 active employees. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS The Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment has manufacturing operations in England, Sweden and Slovenia; European sales and engineering support group in Belgium; and sales offices in Brazil, China, Canada, Egypt, Germany, Singapore, Slovenia, South Korea, Sweden, Taiwan and Turkey. For financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations see Note 19 (Business Segments) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Corporation files annual, quarterly and current reports, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may access and read the Corporation’s filings without charge through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document the Corporation files at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F. Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. 3 Table of Contents The Corporation’s Internet address is www.ampcopittsburgh.com. The Corporation makes available, free of charge on its Internet website, access to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information on the Corporation’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The name, age, position with the Corporation(1) and business experience for the past five years of the Executive Officers of the Corporation are as follows: John S. Stanik (age 62). Mr. Stanik has served as the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer since January 2015. He previously worked at Calgon Carbon Corporation, an international company specializing in purification products, technologies and services, from 1991 through 2012 when he retired for personal reasons. Mr. Stanik served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Calgon Carbon from 2003 to 2012 and became its Chairman of the Board in 2007. Rose Hoover (age 60). Ms. Hoover has been employed by the Corporation for more than thirty-five years. She has served as President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Corporation since August 2015; Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Corporation since May 2011; Senior Vice President of the Corporation since 2009 and prior to that served as Vice President Administration of the Corporation since 2006. She also served as Secretary of the Corporation for more than five years. Marliss D. Johnson (age 51). Ms. Johnson has been Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Corporation since May 2013. Prior to that, she was Vice President, Controller and Treasurer of the Corporation for more than ten years. Ms. Johnson is a Certified Public Accountant with fourteen years of experience with a major accounting firm prior to joining the Corporation. Maria Trainor (age 41). Ms. Trainor has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Corporation since June 2015. Prior to joining the Corporation, Ms. Trainor was a partner at K&L Gates, LLP, a major international law firm, where she had practiced for nearly fourteen years. Robert G. Carothers (age 66). Mr. Carothers has been employed by Union Electric Steel, a subsidiary of the Corporation, for more than forty years. He has served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President of the Corporation’s Forged and Cast Engineered Products Segment since 2009 and prior to that served as President of Union Electric Steel since 1998. Terrence W. Kenny (age 56). Mr. Kenny has been employed by the Corporation for almost thirty years. He has served as President of the Air and Liquid Processing Group since its organization in 2009 and prior to that served as Group Vice President of the Corporation for more than five years. (1) Officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors and none of the listed individuals serves as a director of a public company, except Mr. Stanik is a director of the Corporation and F.N.B. Corporation. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, important factors may cause actual results to differ materially from future expected results based on performance expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements made by us, including known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are not possible to predict or control. Several of these factors are described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but the factors described in filings are not the only risks that are faced. Cyclical demand for products and economic downturns may reduce the demand for, and sales of, our products, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. A significant portion of the Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment’s sales consists of rolling mill rolls to customers in the global steel industry which can be periodically impacted by economic or cyclical downturns. Such downturns, the timing and length of which are difficult to predict, may reduce the demand for, and sales of, our forged and cast steel rolls both in the United States and the rest of the world. Lower demand for rolls may also adversely impact profitability as other competing roll producers lower selling prices in the marketplace in order to fill their manufacturing capacity. Cancellation of orders or deferral of delivery of rolls may occur and produce an adverse impact on financial results. In addition, sales of non-roll product, consisting of open die forged product primarily for the gas and oil industries, are impacted by fluctuations in global energy prices. 4 Table of Contents Excess global capacity in steel industry could lower prices for our products, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability, as well as collectability of receivables and salability of in-process inventory. The global steel manufacturing capacity currently exceeds global consumption of steel products. Such excess capacity often results in manufacturers in certain countries exporting steel at prices significantly below their home market prices (often due to local government assistance or subsidies), which leads to global market destabilization and reduced sales and profitability of some of our and our subsidiaries’ customers, which, in turn, affects our sales and profit margins, as well as collectability of receivables and salability of in-process inventory. Steel industry consolidation resulted in certain customers having increased buying power, which could put pressure on prices of our products and result in lower profit margins. As a result of reduced demand for steel products, the steel industry has undergone structural change by way of consolidation and mergers. In certain markets, the resultant reduction in the number of steel plants and the increased buying power of the enlarged steel producing companies may put pressure on the selling prices and profit margins of rolls. A reduction in the level of export sales, as well as other economic factors in foreign countries, may have an adverse impact on our financial results. Exports are a significant proportion of our subsidiaries’ sales. Historically, changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly in respect of the U.S. dollar, British pound and the euro, have impacted the export of our products and may do so again in the future. Other factors which may adversely impact export sales and operating results include political and economic instability, export controls, changes in tax laws and tariffs and new indigenous producers in overseas markets. A reduction in the level of export sales may have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, exchange rate changes may allow foreign roll suppliers to compete in our home markets. Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our subsidiaries operate in foreign jurisdictions and, accordingly, earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Since our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, and assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect the translated value for revenue, expenses and balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies and could materially affect our financial results expressed in U.S. dollars. A downturn in capital spending in the United States and other jurisdictions may reduce demand for and sales of certain of our products, which would result in reduced profit margins. Each of our businesses is susceptible to the general level of economic activity, particularly as it impacts industrial and construction capital spending. A downturn in capital spending in the United States and elsewhere may reduce demand for and sales of our subsidiaries’ air handling, power generation and refrigeration equipment, and rolling mill rolls. Lower demand may also reduce profit margins due to our competitors and us striving to maximize manufacturing capacity by lowering prices. Commodity price increases, as well as any reductions in electricity or gas supply, could adversely impact our production, which would result in lower profitability. Our subsidiaries use certain commodities in the manufacture of their products. These include steel scrap, ferroalloys and energy. Any sudden price increase may cause a reduction in profit margins or losses where fixed-priced contracts have been accepted or increases cannot be obtained in future selling prices. In addition, there may be curtailment in electricity or gas supply which would adversely impact production. Shortage of critical materials while driving up costs may be of such severity as to disrupt production, all of which may impact sales and profitability. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits from the acquisitions that we make, and we may experience difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses. We have made in the past, and will continue to make, certain acquisitions and enter into joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses. These acquisitions involve a variety of challenges and risks. We may encounter difficulties 5 Table of Contents integrating acquired businesses with our operations or applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions. Other risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, and potential disputes with the sellers. We may not be able to complete certain acquisitions due to antitrust laws and regulations in various jurisdictions. Additionally, we may not realize the degree of timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A work stoppage or another industrial action on the part of any of our unions may be disruptive to our operations. Our subsidiaries have several key operations which are subject to multi-year collective bargaining agreements with their hourly work forces. While we believe we have good relations with our unions, there is the risk of industrial action or work stoppage at the expiration of an agreement if contract negotiations break down, which may disrupt manufacturing and impact results of operations. Dependence on certain equipment may cause an interruption in our production if such equipment is out of operation for an extended period of time, which would result in lower sales and profitability. Our subsidiaries’ principal business relies on certain unique equipment such as an electric arc furnace and a spin cast work roll machine. Although a comprehensive critical spare inventory of key components for this equipment is maintained, if any such unique equipment is out of operation for an extended period, it may result in a significant reduction in our sales and earnings. The ultimate liability of our subsidiaries for claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos-containing components historically used in certain products of our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity in the future. Our subsidiaries, and in some cases, we, are defendants in numerous claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos-containing components historically used in certain products of our subsidiaries. Through year-end 2015, our insurance has covered a substantial majority of our settlement and defense costs. We believe that the estimated costs net of anticipated insurance recoveries of our pending and future asbestos legal proceedings for the next ten years will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no assurance that our subsidiaries or we will not be subject to significant additional claims in the future or that our subsidiaries’ ultimate liability with respect to asbestos claims will not present significantly greater and longer lasting financial exposure than provided for in our consolidated financial statements. Similarly, although the Corporation believes that the assumptions employed in valuing its insurance coverage were reasonable, there are other assumptions that could have been employed that would have resulted in materially lower insurance recovery projections. The ultimate net liability with respect to such pending and any unasserted claims is subject to various uncertainties, including the following: • the number of claims that are brought in the future; • the costs of defending and settling these claims; • insolvencies among our insurance carriers and the risk of future insolvencies; • the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require damage payments in amounts greater than the amounts for which we have historically settled claims; • possible changes in the litigation environment or federal and state law governing the compensation of asbestos claimants; • the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may increase our costs; and • the risk that our insurance will not cover as much of our asbestos liabilities as anticipated. Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is possible that the ultimate liability could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity in the future. The loss of any of our key management or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel may prevent us from our implementing our business strategy. Our success is dependent on the management, experience and leadership skills of our senior management team and key employees. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel with similar industry experience 6 Table of Contents could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management and key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Potential attacks on information technology infrastructure and other cyber-based business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on integrated information technology (“IT”) systems to conduct our business. IT systems failures, including risks associated with upgrading our systems or in successfully integrating IT and other systems in connection with the integration of businesses we acquire, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. Cyber-based risks, in particular, are evolving and include both attacks to our IT infrastructure and attacks to the IT infrastructure of third parties in attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential or other proprietary information, or information relating to our employees, customers and other third parties. Although we have taken steps to address these concerns, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be exposed to substantial liabilities resulting from non-compliance with domestic and international environmental laws and regulations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and disposal of wastes and which may require that we and our subsidiaries investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. We and our subsidiaries could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Corporation has no unresolved staff comments. 7 Table of Contents 