Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, there may be events in the future that we are not able to predict accurately or control which may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable law, we assume no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, events or otherwise. – PART I – ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS Ampco-Pittsburgh Corporation (the “Corporation”) was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. The Corporation, individually or together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is also referred to herein as the “Registrant”. In 2013, the Forged and Cast Rolls segment recognized a need to diversify its product offerings and started producing non-roll products - primarily ingot and open die forged products which are used in the gas and oil industry and the aluminum and plastic extrusion industries. As the demand for the non-roll product has grown, we determined that Forged and Cast Engineered Products is a more appropriate segment name and have reflected that change throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Corporation classifies its businesses in two segments: Forged and Cast Engineered Products and Air and Liquid Processing. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS The sales and operating profit of the Corporation’s two segments and the identifiable assets attributable to both segments for the three years ended December 31, 2014 are set forth in Note 19 (Business Segments) on page 53 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Forged and Cast Engineered Products Segment Union Electric Steel Corporation produces ingot and forged products that service a wide variety of industries globally. It specializes in the production of forged hardened steel rolls used in cold rolling by producers of steel, aluminum and other metals throughout the world. In addition, it produces ingot and open die forged products which are used in the gas and oil industry and the aluminum and plastic extrusion industries. Although currently representing a minor portion of the segment’s business activity, sales of ingot and open die forged products are expected to grow and become a more significant portion of our segment’s business activity. It is headquartered in Carnegie, Pennsylvania with three manufacturing facilities in Pennsylvania and one in Indiana. Union Electric Steel Corporation is one of the largest producers of forged hardened steel rolls in the world. In addition to a few domestic competitors, several major European, South American and Asian manufacturers also compete in both the domestic and foreign markets. In 2007, a subsidiary became a 49% partner in a joint venture in China to manufacture large forged backup rolls, principally in weights and sizes larger than those which can be made in the subsidiary’s facilities in the United States. 1 Table of Contents Union Electric Steel UK Limited produces cast rolls for hot and cold strip mills, medium/heavy section mills and plate mills in a variety of iron and steel qualities. It is located in Gateshead, England and is a major supplier of cast rolls to the metalworking industry worldwide. It primarily competes with European, Asian and North and South American companies in both the domestic and foreign markets. Union Electric Steel UK Limited is a 25% partner in a Chinese joint venture which produces cast rolls. Air and Liquid Processing Segment Aerofin Division of Air & Liquid Systems Corporation produces custom-engineered finned tube heat exchange coils and related heat transfer products for a variety of industries including fossil fuel and nuclear power generation, automotive, industrial process and HVAC, and is located in Lynchburg, Virginia. Buffalo Air Handling Division of Air & Liquid Systems Corporation produces large custom air handling systems used in commercial, institutional and industrial buildings and is located in Amherst, Virginia. Buffalo Pumps Division of Air & Liquid Systems Corporation manufactures a line of centrifugal pumps for the refrigeration, power generation and marine defense industries and is located in North Tonawanda, New York. All three of the divisions in this segment are principally represented by a common independent sales organization and have several major competitors. In both segments, the products are dependent on engineering, principally custom designed, and are sold to sophisticated commercial and industrial users located throughout the world. The Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment has two international customers which constituted approximately 29% of its sales in 2014. The loss of both of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the segment. For additional information on the products produced and financial information about each segment, see Note 19 (Business Segments) on page 53 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Raw Materials Raw materials used in both segments are generally available from many sources and the Corporation is not dependent upon any single supplier for any raw material. Substantial volumes of raw materials used by the Corporation are subject to significant variations in price. The Corporation generally does not purchase or commit for the purchase of a major portion of raw materials significantly in advance of the time it requires such materials but does make forward commitments for the supply of natural gas. Patents While the Corporation holds some patents, trademarks and licenses, in the opinion of management they are not material to either segment of the Corporation’s business, other than in protecting the goodwill associated with the names under which products are sold. Backlog The backlog of orders at December 31, 2014 was approximately $168 million compared to a backlog of $197 million at year-end 2013. Approximately 15% of the backlog is expected to be released after 2015. Competition The Corporation faces considerable competition from a large number of companies in both segments. The Corporation believes, however, that it is a significant factor in each of the niche markets which it serves. Competition in both segments is based on quality, service, price and delivery. For additional information, see “Narrative Description of Business” on page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Research and Development As part of an overall strategy to develop new markets and maintain leadership in each of the industry niches served, the Corporation’s businesses in both segments incur expenditures for research and development. The activities that are undertaken are designed to 2 Table of Contents develop new products, improve existing products and processes, enhance product quality, adapt products to meet customer specifications and reduce manufacturing costs. In the aggregate, these expenditures approximated $1.33 million in 2014, $1.41 million in 2013 and $1.48 million in 2012. Environmental Protection Compliance Costs Expenditures for environmental control matters were not material to either segment in 2014 and such expenditures are not expected to be material in 2015. Employees On December 31, 2014, the Corporation had 1,076 active employees. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS The Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment has a manufacturing operation in England and a small European sales and engineering support group in Belgium. For financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations see Note 19 (Business Segments) on page 53 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Corporation files annual, quarterly and current reports, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may access and read the Corporation’s filings without charge through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document the Corporation files at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F. Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. The Corporation’s Internet address is www.ampcopittsburgh.com. The Corporation makes available, free of charge on its Internet website, access to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information on the Corporation’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The name, age, position with the Corporation(1) and business experience for the past five years of the Executive Officers of the Corporation are as follows: John S. Stanik (age 61). Mr. Stanik has served as the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer since January 2015. He previously worked at Calgon Carbon Corporation, an international company specializing in purification products, technologies and services, from 1991 through 2012 when he retired for personal reasons. Mr. Stanik served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Calgon Carbon from 2003 to 2012 and became its Chairman of the Board in 2007. Rose Hoover (age 59). Ms. Hoover has been employed by the Corporation for more than thirty-five years. She has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Corporation since May 2011; Senior Vice President of the Corporation since April 2009 and prior to that served as Vice President Administration of the Corporation since 2006. She has also served as Secretary of the Corporation for more than five years. Marliss D. Johnson (age 50). Ms. Johnson has been Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Corporation since May 2013. Prior to that, she was Vice President, Controller and Treasurer of the Corporation for more than ten years. Ms. Johnson is a Certified Public Accountant with fourteen years of experience with a major accounting firm prior to joining the Corporation. Robert G. Carothers (age 65). Mr. Carothers has been employed by Union Electric Steel, a subsidiary of the Corporation, for more than forty years. He has served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President of the Corporation’s Forged and Cast Engineered Products Segment since April 2009 and prior to that served as President of Union Electric Steel since 1998. 3 Table of Contents Terrence W. Kenny (age 55). Mr. Kenny has been employed by the Corporation for almost thirty years. He has served as President of the Air and Liquid Processing Group since April 2009 and prior to that served as Group Vice President of the Corporation for more than five years. (1) Officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors and none of the listed individuals serves as a director of a public company, except that Mr. Stanik is a director of the Corporation. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, important factors may cause actual results to differ materially from any future expected results based on performance expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements made by us, including known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are not possible to predict or control. Several of these factors are described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but the factors described in filings are not the only risks that are faced. Cyclical Demand for Products/Economic Downturns A significant portion of our sales consists of rolling mill rolls to customers in the global steel industry which can be periodically impacted by economic or cyclical downturns. Such downturns, the timing and length of which are difficult to predict, may reduce the demand for, and sales of, our forged and cast steel rolls both in the United States and the rest of the world. Lower demand for rolls may also adversely impact profitability as other competing roll producers lower selling prices in the market place in order to fill their manufacturing capacity. Cancellation of orders or deferral of delivery of rolls may occur and produce an adverse impact on financial results. In addition, sales of non-roll product, consisting of open die forged product primarily for the gas and oil industries, are impacted by fluctuations in global energy prices. Steel Industry Consolidation Globally, the steel industry has undergone structural change by way of consolidation and mergers. In certain markets, the resultant reduction in the number of steel plants and the increased buying power of the enlarged steel producing companies may put pressure on the selling prices and profit margins of rolls. Export Sales Exports are a significant proportion of our sales. Historically, changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly in respect of the U.S. dollar and the euro, have impacted the export of our products and may do so again in the future. Other factors which may adversely impact export sales and operating results include political and economic instability, export controls, changes in tax laws and tariffs and new indigenous producers in overseas markets. A reduction in the level of export sales may have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, exchange rate changes may allow foreign roll suppliers to compete in our home markets. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Certain of our subsidiaries operate in foreign jurisdictions and, accordingly, earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Since our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, and assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect the translated value for revenue, expenses and balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies and could materially affect our financial results expressed in U.S. dollars. Capital Spending Each of our businesses is susceptible to the general level of economic activity, particularly as it impacts industrial and construction capital spending. A downturn in capital spending in the United States and elsewhere may reduce demand for and sales of our air handling, power generation and refrigeration equipment, and rolling mill rolls. Lower demand may also reduce profit margins due to our competitors and us striving to maximize manufacturing capacity by lowering prices. 4 Table of Contents Prices and Availability of Commodities We use certain commodities in the manufacture of our products. These include steel scrap, ferroalloys and energy. Any sudden price increase may cause a reduction in profit margins or losses where fixed-priced contracts have been accepted or increases cannot be obtained in future selling prices. In addition, there may be curtailment in electricity or gas supply which would adversely impact production. Shortage of critical materials while driving up costs may be of such severity as to disrupt production, all of which may impact sales and profitability. Labor Agreements We have several key operations which are subject to multi-year collective bargaining agreements with our hourly work force. While we believe we have good relations with our unions, there is the risk of industrial action or work stoppage at the expiration of an agreement if contract negotiations break down, which may disrupt manufacturing and impact results of operations. Dependence on Certain Equipment Our principal business relies on certain unique equipment such as an electric arc furnace and a spin cast work roll machine. Although a comprehensive critical spare inventory of key components for this equipment is maintained, if any such unique equipment is out of operation for an extended period, it may result in a significant reduction in our sales and earnings. Asbestos Litigation Our subsidiaries, and in some cases, we, are defendants in numerous claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos-containing components historically used in certain products of our subsidiaries. Through year-end 2014, our insurance has covered a substantial majority of our settlement and defense costs. We believe that the estimated costs net of anticipated insurance recoveries of our pending and future asbestos legal proceedings for the next ten years will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no assurance that our subsidiaries or we will not be subject to significant additional claims in the future or that our subsidiaries’ ultimate liability with respect to asbestos claims will not present significantly greater and longer lasting financial exposure than provided for in our consolidated financial statements. Similarly, although the Corporation believes that the assumptions employed in valuing its insurance coverage were reasonable, there are other assumptions that could have been employed that would have resulted in materially lower insurance recovery projections. The ultimate net liability with respect to such pending and any unasserted claims is subject to various uncertainties, including the following: • the number of claims that are brought in the future; • the costs of defending and settling these claims; • insolvencies among our insurance carriers and the risk of future insolvencies; • the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require damage payments in amounts greater than the amounts for which we have historically settled claims; • possible changes in the litigation environment or federal and state law governing the compensation of asbestos claimants; • the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may increase our costs; and • the risk that our insurance will not cover as much of our asbestos liabilities as anticipated. Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is possible that the ultimate liability could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity in the future. Environmental Matters We are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and disposal of wastes and which may require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. We could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Corporation has no unresolved staff comments. 5 Table of Contents 