Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following are risk factors identified by management that if any events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Some of our business segments are cyclical or are otherwise sensitive to volatile or variable factors. A downturn or weakness in overall economic activity or fluctuations in those other factors can have a material adverse effect on us.Historically, sales of products that we manufacture and sell have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. In particular, the demand for our Crane products is cyclical and is impacted by the strength of the economy generally, the availability of financing and other factors that may have an effect on the level of construction activity on an international, national or regional basis. During periods of expansion in construction activity, we generally have benefited from increased demand for our products. Conversely, during recessionary periods, such as the recent global economic recession, we have been adversely affected by reduced demand for our products. In addition, the strength of the economy generally may affect the rates of expansion, consolidation, renovation and equipment replacement within the restaurant, lodging, convenience store and healthcare industries, which may affect the performance of our Foodservice segment. Furthermore, an economic recession may impact leveraged companies, such as Manitowoc, more than competing companies with less leverage and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Products in our Crane segment also depend in part on federal, state, local and foreign governmental spending and appropriations, including infrastructure, security and defense outlays. Reductions in governmental spending can reduce demand for our products, which in turn can affect our performance. Weather conditions can substantially affect our Foodservice segment, as relatively cool summer weather and cooler-than-normal weather in hot climates tend to decrease sales of ice and beverage dispensers. Our sales depend in part upon our customers' replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions may cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery.Because we participate in industries that are intensely competitive, our net sales and profits could decline as we respond to competition.We sell most of our products in highly competitive industries. We compete in each of those industries based on product design, quality of products, quality and responsiveness of product support services, product performance, maintenance costs and price. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and distribution resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.If we fail to develop new and innovative products or if customers in our markets do not accept them, our results would be negatively affected.Our products must be kept current to meet our customers' needs. To remain competitive, we therefore must develop new and innovative products on an on-going basis. If we fail to make innovations, or the market does not accept our new products, our sales and results would suffer.We invest significantly in the research and development of new products. These expenditures do not always result in products that will be accepted by the market. To the extent they do not, whether as a function of the product or the business cycle, we will have increased expenses without significant sales to benefit us. Failure to develop successful new products may also cause potential customers to choose to purchase used equipment, or competitors' products, rather than invest in new products manufactured by us.Price increases in some materials and sources of supply could affect our profitability.We use large amounts of steel, stainless steel, aluminum, copper and electronic controls, among other items, in the manufacture of our products. Occasionally, market prices of some of our key raw materials increase significantly. If in the future we are not able to reduce product cost in other areas or pass raw material price increases on to our customers, our margins could be adversely affected. In addition, because we maintain limited raw material and component inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers-including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters-may impair our ability to satisfy our customers and could adversely 12Table of Contentsaffect our financial performance.To better manage our exposures to certain commodity price fluctuations, we regularly hedge our commodity exposures through financial markets. Through this hedging program we fix the future price for a portion of these commodities utilized in the production of our products. To the extent that our hedging is not successful in fixing commodity prices that are favorable in comparison to market prices at the time of purchase, we would experience a negative impact on our profit margins compared to the margins we would have realized if these price commitments were not in place, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods.We increasingly manufacture and sell our products outside of the United States, which may present additional risks to our business.For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 53%, 56% and 57%, respectively, of our net sales were attributable to products sold outside of the United States. Expanding the company's international sales is part of our growth strategy. International operations generally are subject to various risks, including political, military, religious and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs, the impact of foreign government regulations, the effects of income and withholding tax, governmental expropriation, and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with our international sales, manufacturing and the integration of new facilities that could cause loss of revenue or increased cost. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate and currency devaluations of various foreign jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We depend on our key personnel and the loss of these personnel could have an adverse effect on our business.Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our key executives, managers and skilled personnel. Generally, these employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our key officers and employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of key personnel if it were to occur in the future.Our operations and profitability could suffer if we experience problems with labor relations. As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 13,500 people and had labor agreements with 13 union locals in North America. A large majority of our European employees belong to European trade unions. We have three trade unions in China and one trade union in India. During 2010, we had two union contracts that expired and were successfully renegotiated. During 2011, four of our union contracts expired at various times. Three of the contracts that expired in 2011 were successfully renegotiated without incident, while the International Association of Machinists (IAM) contract with Manitowoc Cranes, LLC expired in October 2011 and resulted in a 66-day work stoppage. The company’s contingency plans ensured that customer needs were met during the work stoppage. A new contract with the IAM was ratified in January 2012 and expires in January 2016. During 2012, we successfully negotiated three labor contracts without incident. Any significant labor relations issues could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or maintain our rights to use licensed intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected.Our patents, trademarks and licenses are important in the operation of our businesses. Although we intend to protect our intellectual property rights vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in doing so. Third parties may assert or prosecute infringement claims against us in connection with the services and products that we offer, and we may or may not be able to successfully defend these claims. Litigation, either to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others, could result in substantial costs and in a diversion of our resources. In addition, if a third party would prevail in an infringement claim against us, then we would likely need to obtain a license from the third party on commercial terms, which would likely increase our costs. Our failure to maintain or obtain necessary licenses or an adverse outcome in any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits.Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of our products, especially our crane products. Certain of our businesses also have experienced claims relating to past asbestos exposure. Neither we nor our affiliates have to date incurred material costs related to these asbestos claims. We vigorously 13Table of Contentsdefend ourselves against current claims and intend to do so against future claims. However, a substantial increase in the number of claims that are made against us or the amounts of any judgments or settlements could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Strategic divestitures could negatively affect our results.We regularly review our business units and evaluate them against our core business strategies. In addition to strategic divestiture decisions, at times we may be required by regulatory authorities to make business divestitures as a result of acquisition transactions. As a result, we regularly consider the divestiture of non-core and non-strategic, or acquisition-related operations or facilities. Depending upon the circumstances and terms, the divestiture of an operation or facility could negatively affect our earnings from continuing operations.Environmental liabilities that may arise in the future could be material to us.Our operations, facilities and properties are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination, and otherwise relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental and health and safety matters, and have in the past and will continue to incur capital costs and other expenditures relating to such matters.Based on current information, we believe that any costs we may incur relating to environmental matters will not be material, although we can give no assurances. We also cannot be certain that identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities, or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to additional environmental liabilities, compliance costs and/or penalties that could be material. Further, environmental laws and regulations are constantly evolving and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect they may have upon our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We are exposed to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations.Some of our operations are or will be conducted by subsidiaries in foreign countries. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries will be reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, which are stated in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between many of these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Such fluctuations may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial position and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a transaction using a different currency than its functional currency. We attempt to reduce currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a material transaction using a different currency than its functional currency by: • matching cash flows and payments in the same currency; • direct foreign currency borrowing; and • entering into foreign exchange contracts for hedging purposes.However, we may not be able to hedge this risk completely or at an acceptable cost, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods.Increased or unexpected product warranty claims could adversely affect us.We provide our customers a warranty covering workmanship, and in some cases materials, on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 60 months with certain equipment having longer term warranties. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, there can be no assurance that future warranty claims will follow historical patterns or that we can accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Some of our customers rely on financing with third parties to purchase our products, and we may incur expenses associated with our assistance to customers in securing third party financing.14Table of ContentsA portion of our sales is financed by third-party finance companies on behalf of our customers. The availability of financing by third parties is affected by general economic conditions, the credit worthiness of our customers and the estimated residual value of our equipment. In certain transactions we provide residual value guarantees and buyback commitments to our customers or the third-party financial institutions. Deterioration in the credit quality of our customers or the overall health of the banking industry could negatively impact our customer's ability to obtain the resources needed to make purchases of our equipment or their ability to obtain third-party financing. In addition, if the actual value of the equipment for which we have provided a residual value guaranty declines below the amount of our guaranty, we may incur additional costs, which may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our leverage may impair our operations and financial condition.As of December 31, 2012, our total consolidated debt was $1,824.8 million as compared to consolidated debt of $1,890.0 million as of December 31, 2011, including the value of related interest rate hedging instruments. Our debt could have important consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest rather than to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate.The agreements governing our debt include covenants that restrict, among other matters, our ability to incur additional debt; pay dividends on or repurchase our equity; make investments; and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our Senior Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants may also require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. We cannot be certain that we will meet any future financial tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. See additional discussion in Note 11, "Debt," to our Consolidated Financial Statements.If we default under our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and could proceed against any collateral securing the debt. Under those circumstances, in the absence of readily-available refinancing on favorable terms, we might elect or be compelled to enter bankruptcy proceedings, in which case our shareholders could lose the entire value of their investment in our common stock.An inability to successfully manage the implementation of a global enterprise resource management (ERP) system in our Crane segment could adversely affect our operating results.We are in the process of implementing a new global ERP system in the Crane segment. This system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including the ability of the company to report accurate and timely financial results.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to malicious attacks or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including as a result of rollouts of new systems. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and/or regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and/or cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business.Our inability to recover from natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our business.Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural or man-made disasters, national emergencies, significant labor strikes, work stoppages, political unrest, war or 15Table of Contentsterrorist activities that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities were not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. Such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. We cannot assure you that we will have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events.Our income tax returns are subject to review by taxing authorities, and the final determination of our tax liability with respect to tax audits and any related litigation could adversely affect our financial results.Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results and/or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, and/or interest assessments. We are undergoing tax audits in various jurisdictions and we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our tax reserves. In September 2012, we received an examination report from the Internal Revenue Service covering the 2008 and 2009 tax years. The report includes the proposed disallowance of the deductibility of a $380.9 million foreign currency loss that was incurred in 2008. We filed a formal protest to the proposed adjustment during the fourth quarter of 2012. We plan to pursue all administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies with respect to resolving this matter. However, there can be no assurance that this matter will be resolved in our favor.Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.We must comply with all applicable international trade, customs, export controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Changes in trade sanctions laws may restrict our business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned entities, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. Violation of these laws or regulations could result in sanctions or fines and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and affect the manufacturing and sale of our products.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), signed into law on July 21, 2010, includes Section 1502, which requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) to adopt additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries, or “conflict minerals”, for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an SEC reporting company. The metals covered by the final rules, adopted on August 22, 2012, are commonly referred to as “3TG” and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. Implementation of the new disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals used in the manufacture of our products. Our supply chain is complex, and if we are not able to conclusively verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products or that our products are “conflict free,” we may face reputational challenges with our customers or investors. Furthermore, we may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers who require that our products be certified as "conflict free," which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary metals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. While these rules are currently the subject of a legal challenge, we could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2012 that remain unresolved.16Table of Contents