Item 1A. Risk Factors - -------- ------------ The risks described below are among those that could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience and from results predicted by any forward-looking statements related to conditions or events that may occur in the future. These risks are not the only risks the Company faces, and other risks include factors not presently known as well as those that are currently considered to be less significant. Risks Related to the Company's Real Estate Operations - ----------------------------------------------------- The Company's real estate assets are concentrated in one market, Rio Rancho, New Mexico, meaning the Company's results of operations and future growth may be limited or affected by economic changes in that market. Substantially all of the Company's real estate assets are located in Rio Rancho, which is adjacent to Albuquerque, New Mexico. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Company could be affected by changes in economic conditions in this region from time to time, including economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or downturn of key industries and employers. The Company's results of operations, future growth or both may be adversely affected if the demand for residential or commercial real estate declines in the Rio Rancho area as a result of changes in economic conditions. A downturn in the business of Rio Rancho's largest employer could adversely affect the Company's real estate development business there. Intel Corporation, the largest employer in Rio Rancho with approximately 3,300 full-time employees at April 30, 2008, operates a large semiconductor manufacturing facility there and has announced its plan to retool this facility. Intel Corporation had approximately 4,700 full-time employees as of April 30, 2007 and the reduction in force reflects a May 3, 2007 announcement that a workforce reduction would occur at that facility beginning in August 2007. If Intel Corporation's presence in Rio Rancho were to continue to diminish for any reason, such as in response to a downturn in its semiconductor manufacturing business, the Rio Rancho real estate market and consequently the Company's land development business located there could be adversely affected. As Rio Rancho's population continues to grow, the Company's land development activities in that market may be subject to greater limitations than they have been historically. When the Company acquired its core real estate inventory in Rio Rancho over 40 years ago, the area was not developed and had a low population. As of April 30, 2008, Rio Rancho was the third largest city in New Mexico and had a population of approximately 75,000. As Rio Rancho's population continues to grow, the Company may be unable to engage in development activities comparable to those the Company has engaged in historically. Local community or political groups may oppose the Company's development plans or require modification of those plans, which could cause delays or increase the cost of the Company's development projects. In addition, zoning density limitations, "slow growth" provisions or other land use regulations implemented by state, city or local governments could further restrict the Company's development activities or those of its homebuilder customers, or could adversely affect financial returns from a given project, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company's real estate assets are diminishing over time, meaning long-term growth in the real estate business will require the acquisition of additional real estate assets, possibly by expanding into new markets. Substantially all of the Company's real estate revenues are derived from sales of the Company's core inventory in Rio Rancho. This property was acquired more 6 than 40 years ago, and each time the Company develops and sells real estate to customers in Rio Rancho, the Company's real estate assets diminish. As of April 30, 2008, the Company owned approximately 17,240 acres in Rio Rancho out of an original purchase of approximately 91,000 acres. The continuity and future growth of the Company's real estate business will require that the Company acquire new properties in or near Rio Rancho or expand to other markets to provide sufficient assets to maintain the Company's current level of operations and revenues. While the Company holds two properties in Colorado, it has not for many years made any significant attempt to identify a development opportunity similar to the one the Company has undertaken in Rio Rancho, and there can be no assurance that the Company will identify such an opportunity in another market. If the Company does not acquire new real estate assets, its real estate holdings will continue to diminish, which will adversely affect the Company's ability to continue its real estate operations at their current level. The Company's remaining Rio Rancho real estate is not all in contiguous blocks, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to sell lots at levels comparable with the recent past. Of the approximately 17,240 acres in Rio Rancho that the Company owned at April 30, 2008, approximately 4,500 acres were in contiguous blocks that are being developed or are suitable for development, and approximately 1,990 acres were in areas with a high concentration of ownership, where the Company owns more than 50% of the lots in the area, suitable for special assessment districts or city redevelopment areas that may allow for future development under the auspices of local government. The balance is in scattered lots, where the Company owns less than 50% of the lots in the area, that may require the purchase of a sufficient number of adjoining lots to create tracts suitable for development or that the Company may attempt to sell individually or in small groups. As the Company's land sales continue and the amount of the Company's contiguous and highly concentrated lots diminishes, the Company's ability to continue to sell lots and generate land sale revenues at the levels of the recent past may be adversely affected, which would have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company may not be able to acquire properties or develop them successfully. If the Company is able to identify a development opportunity similar to the one it has undertaken in Rio Rancho, the success of the Company's real estate segment will still depend in large part upon its ability to acquire additional properties on satisfactory terms and to develop them successfully. If the Company is unable to do so, its results of operations could be adversely affected. The acquisition, ownership and development of real estate is subject to many risks that may adversely affect the Company's results of operations, including the risks that: - the Company may not be able to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with greater capital than the Company has; - the Company may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all; - an adverse change in market conditions during the interval between acquisition and sale of a property may result in a lower than originally anticipated profit; - the Company may underestimate the cost of development required to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property; - acquired properties may be located in new markets where the Company may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and - the Company may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into its existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. 7 The Company's real estate development activities have been primarily limited to a single market, and it may face substantially more experienced competition in acquiring and developing real estate in new markets. Since the Company's real estate acquisition and development activities have been primarily limited to the Rio Rancho market, the Company does not have extensive experience in acquiring real estate in other markets or engaging in development activities in multiple markets simultaneously. Should the Company seek to acquire additional real estate in new markets, competition from other potential purchasers of real estate could adversely affect the Company's operations. Many of these entities may have substantially greater experience than the Company has in identifying, acquiring and developing real estate opportunities in other markets and in managing real estate developments in multiple markets. These entities may also have greater financial resources than the Company has and may be able to pay more than the Company can or accept more risk than the Company is willing to accept to acquire real estate. These entities also may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the costs or the geographic concentration of their investments. This competition may prevent the Company from acquiring the real estate assets the Company seeks, or increase the cost of properties that the Company does acquire. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to the Company or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. The Company will likely compete for real estate investment opportunities with, among others, insurance companies, pension and investment funds, partnerships, real estate or housing developers, investment companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and owner/occupants. Properties that the Company acquires may have defects that are unknown to the Company. Although the Company generally performs due diligence on prospective properties before they are acquired, and on a periodic basis after acquisition, any of the properties the Company may acquire may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to the Company that could adversely affect the property's value or revenue potential or, in the case of environmental or other factors, impose liability on the Company, which could be significant. The Company is subject to substantial legal, regulatory and other requirements regarding the development of land and requires government approvals, which may be denied, and thus the Company may encounter difficulties in obtaining entitlements on a timely basis, which could limit its ability to sell land at levels comparable with the recent past. There are many legal, regulatory and other requirements regarding the development of land, which may delay the start of planned development activities, increase the Company's expenses or limit the Company's customers' development activities. Development activities performed in connection with real estate sales include obtaining necessary governmental approvals, acquiring access to water supplies, installing utilities and necessary storm drains and building or improving roads. Numerous local, state and federal statutes, ordinances and rules and regulations, including those concerning zoning, resource protection and environmental laws, regulate these tasks. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the governmental authorities that regulate these matters and from whom the Company must obtain necessary approvals. The approval process can be lengthy and delays can increase the Company's costs, as well as the costs for the primary customers of the Company's real estate business (residential and commercial developers). Failure to obtain necessary approvals could significantly adversely affect the Company's real estate development activities and its results of operations. Increases in taxes or governmental fees would increase the Company's costs. Also, adverse changes in tax laws could reduce customer demand for land for commercial and residential development. Increases in real estate taxes and other local governmental fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space and road improvements or to provide low and moderate income housing, would increase the Company's costs and have an adverse effect on the Company's operations. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes or changes in income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives could adversely affect homebuilders' potential customer demand and could adversely affect future land sales by the Company to those homebuilders. 8 Unless the City of Rio Rancho supplements its current water supply, development of the Company's remaining Rio Rancho land may be adversely affected. All of the Company's future Rio Rancho land development will require water service from the City of Rio Rancho or from another source. While the city has not denied any development in the past due to a shortage of water supply, it has recently expressed concerns that its current water supply cannot support growth indefinitely. Although the city is currently pursuing various methods to supplement its water supply, if it is unsuccessful, development of the Company's remaining Rio Rancho land could be adversely affected. The Company may be subject to environmental liability. Various laws and regulations impose liability on real property owners and operators for the costs of investigating, cleaning up and removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. In the Company's role as a property owner or developer, the Company could be held liable for such costs. This liability may be imposed without regard to the legality of the original actions and without regard to whether the Company knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. If the Company fails to disclose environmental issues, it could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of the property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs incurred in connection with the contamination. If the Company incurs any such liability that is material, its results of operations would be adversely affected. Real estate is a cyclical industry, and the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected during cyclical downturns in the industry. During periods of economic expansion, the real estate industry typically benefits from an increased demand for developable land. In contrast, during periods of economic contraction, the real estate industry is typically adversely affected by a decline in demand. For example, beginning in early 2007 increased defaults under sub-prime mortgages led to significant losses for the companies offering such mortgages and contributed to a severe downturn in the residential housing market that is continuing. Further, real estate development projects typically begin, and financial and other resources are committed, long before the real estate project comes to market, which could be during a time when the real estate market is depressed. There can be no assurance that an increase in demand or an economic expansion will be sustained in the Rio Rancho market, where the Company's core real estate business is based and operates, or in any other new market into which the Company expands its real estate operations. Any of the following (among other factors, including those mentioned elsewhere in this report) could cause a general decline in the demand for residential or commercial real estate which, in turn, could contribute to a severe downturn in the real estate development industry that could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations: - changes in government regulation; - periods of general economic slowdown or recession; - rising interest rates and a decline in the general availability or affordability of mortgage financing; - adverse changes in local or regional economic conditions; - shifts in population away from the markets that the Company serves; - tax law changes, including potential limits on, or elimination of, the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense, real property taxes and employee relocation expenses; and - acts of God, including hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Changing market conditions may adversely affect companies in the real estate industry, which rely upon credit in order to finance their purchases of land from the Company. Changes in interest rates and other economic factors can dramatically affect the availability of capital for the Company's developer customers. Residential and commercial developers to whom the Company frequently sells land typically rely upon third party financing to provide the capital necessary for their acquisition of land. Changes in economic and other external market conditions 9 may result in a developer's inability to obtain suitable financing, which could adversely impact the Company's ability to sell land, or force the Company to sell land at lower prices, which would adversely affect its results of operations. Changes in general economic, real estate development or other business conditions could adversely affect the Company's business and its financial results. A significant percentage of the Company's real estate revenues are derived from customers in the residential homebuilding business, which is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and factors such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of mortgage financing and interest rates. Adverse changes in any of these conditions could decrease demand for homes generally and therefore affect the pricing of homes and in turn the price of land sold to developers, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. A number of contracts for individual Rio Rancho home site sales made prior to 1977 require the Company to exchange land in an area that is serviced by utilities for land in areas where utilities are not installed. In connection with certain individual Rio Rancho home site sales made prior to 1977, if water, electric and telephone utilities have not reached the lot site when a purchaser is ready to build a home, the Company is obligated to exchange a lot in an area then serviced by such utilities for the lot of the purchaser, without cost to the purchaser. Although this has not been the case in the past, if the Company were to experience a large number of requests for such exchanges in the future, the Company's results of operations could be adversely impacted. If subcontractors are not available to assist in completing the Company's land development projects, the Company may not be able to complete those projects on a timely basis. The development of land on a timely basis is critical to the Company's ability to complete development projects in accordance with the Company's contractual obligations. The availability of subcontractors in the markets in which the Company operates can be affected by factors beyond the Company's control, including the general demand for these subcontractors by other developers. If subcontractors are not available when the Company requires their services, the Company may experience delays or be forced to seek alternative suppliers, which may increase costs or adversely affect the Company's ability to sell land on a timely basis. Land investments are generally illiquid, and the Company may not be able to sell the Company's properties when it is economically or otherwise important to do so. Land investments generally cannot be sold quickly, and the Company's ability to sell properties may be affected by market conditions. The Company may not be able to diversify or vary its portfolio promptly in accordance with its strategies or in response to economic or other conditions. The Company's ability to pay down debt, reduce interest costs and acquire properties is dependent upon its ability to sell the properties it has selected for disposition at the prices and within the deadlines the Company has established for each property. Risks Related to the Company's Media Service Operations - ------------------------------------------------------- The Company's media services operations could face increased costs and business disruption from instability in the newsstand distribution channel. The Company extends credit to various newsstand distribution services customers, whose credit worthiness and financial position may be affected by changes in economic or other external conditions. Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a significant concentration of risk primarily consist of trade accounts receivable from wholesalers in the magazine distribution industry. Due to industry consolidation, four major wholesaler groups represent over 80% of the wholesale magazine distribution business, and the insolvency of any of them could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, due to the significant concentration, should there be a disruption in the wholesale channel, it could impede the Company's ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace. 10 Almost all of the Company's revenues in the Company's newsstand distribution services business are derived from sales made on a fully returnable basis, and an error in estimating expected returns could cause a misstatement of revenues for the period affected. As is customary in the magazine distribution industry, almost all of the Company's revenues in its newsstand distribution services business segment are derived from sales made on a fully returnable basis, meaning that customers may return unsold copies of magazines for credit. During the Company's fiscal year ended April 30, 2008, customers ultimately returned for credit approximately 68% of the magazines initially distributed by the Company. The Company recognizes revenues from the distribution of magazines at the time of delivery to the wholesalers, less a reserve for estimated returns that is based on historical experience and recent sales data on an issue-by-issue basis. Although the Company has the contractual right to return these magazines for offsetting credits from the publishers from whom the magazines are purchased, an error in estimating the percentage of returns at the end of an accounting period could have the effect of understating or overstating revenues in the period affected, which misstatement would have to be adjusted in the subsequent period when the actual return information became known. The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and advertising expenditures from print to other media could adversely affect the Company's media services business segments. Revenues in the Company's media services business segments are principally derived from services the Company performs for traditional publishers. Historically, a reduction in the demand for the Company's newsstand distribution services due to lower sales of magazines at newsstands has often been at least partially offset by an increase in demand for the Company's fulfillment services as consumers affected by the reduction in newsstand distribution instead sought publications through subscription. However, the distribution of news, entertainment and other information via the Internet has become increasingly popular, and consumers increasingly rely on personal computers, cellular phones or other electronic devices for such information. The resulting shift of advertising dollars from traditional print media to online media could adversely affect the publishing industry in general and have a negative impact on both the Company's fulfillment and newsstand distribution segments due to the shift in consumer demand away from print media and toward digital downloading and other delivery methods. The Company's publisher customers face increased costs for paper, printing and postal rates. This could have a negative affect on their operating income, and this in turn could negatively affect the Company's media services operations. The Company's publisher customers' principal raw material is paper. Paper and printing prices have fluctuated over the past several years, and significant unanticipated increases in paper prices could adversely affect a publisher customer's operating income. Postage for magazine distribution and direct solicitation is another significant operating expense of the Company's publisher customers, which primarily use the U.S. Postal Service to distribute their products. The U.S. Postal Service implemented a postal rate increase effective May 12, 2008. Any significant increases in paper costs, printing costs or postal rates that publishers are not able to offset could have a negative affect on their operating income, and this in turn could negatively affect the Company's media services operations. Competitive pressures may result in a decrease in the Company's revenues and profitability. The fulfillment and newsstand distribution services businesses are highly competitive, and some of the Company's competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than the Company's. The Company experiences significant price competition in the markets in which it competes. Competition in the Company's media services businesses may come not only from other service providers, but also from the Company's customers, who may choose to develop their own internal fulfillment or distribution operations, thereby reducing demand for the Company's services. Competitive pressures could cause the Company's media services businesses to lose market share or result in significant price erosion that could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. 11 The Company's operating results depend in part on successful research, development and marketing of new or improved services and data processing capabilities and could suffer if the Company is not able to continue to successfully implement new technologies. The Company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, and must therefore continue to invest in developing technologies and to improve various existing systems in order to remain competitive. There are substantial uncertainties associated with the Company's efforts to develop new technologies and services for the magazine fulfillment and distribution markets the Company serves. The Company makes significant investments in new information processing technologies and services that may or may not prove to be profitable. Even if these developments are profitable, the operating margins resulting from their application would not necessarily result in an improvement over the Company's historical margins. The Company may not be able to successfully introduce new services and data processing capabilities on a timely and cost-effective basis. The success of new and improved services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by the publishers and other customers with whom the Company conducts business. The Company's media services businesses are affected, to varying degrees, by technological change and shifts in customer demand. These changes result in the transition of services provided and increase the importance of being "first to market" with new services and information processing innovations. Difficulties or delays in the development, production or marketing of new services and information processing capabilities may be experienced, and may adversely affect the Company's results of operations. These difficulties and delays could also prevent the Company from realizing a reasonable return on the investment required to bring new services and information processing capabilities to market on a timely and cost effective basis. The Company's operations could be disrupted if its information systems fail, causing increased expenses and loss of sales. The Company's business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its systems and communications capabilities, including the maintenance of customer databases for billing and label processing, and the Company's magazine distribution order regulation system. If a key system were to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, even if only for a short period, the Company's operations and financial results could be adversely affected. The Company's systems could be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar events. The Company has a formal disaster recovery plan in place, but this plan may not entirely prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. The Company's business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate the Company for losses that may occur. The Company depends on the Internet to deliver some services, which may expose the Company to various risks. Many of the Company's operations and services, including order taking on behalf of customers and communications with customers and suppliers, involve the use of the Internet. The Company is therefore subject to factors that adversely affect Internet usage, including the reliability of Internet service providers that, from time to time, have operational problems and experience service outages. Additionally, as the Company continues to increase the services it provides using the Internet, the Company is increasingly subject to risks related to the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Failure to prevent security breaches of the Company's networks or those of its customers, or a security breach affecting the Internet in general could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive rules and regulations of credit card associations. The Company processes a large number of credit card transactions on behalf of its fulfillment services customers and is thus subject to the extensive rules and regulations of the leading credit card associations. The card associations modify their rules and regulations from time to time and the Company's inability to anticipate changes in rules, regulations or the interpretation or application thereof may result in substantial disruption to its business. In the event that the card associations or the sponsoring banks determine that the manner in which the Company processes certain card transactions is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or if the card associations adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which the Company processes 12 card transactions, the Company may be forced to modify the manner in which it operates, which may increase costs, or cease processing certain types of transactions altogether, either of which could have a negative impact on its business. As an example of the card associations amending their regulations, Kable is now required to comply with the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard. The Company continues to implement its plans at its fulfillment services locations where credit card transactions are processed in order to meet the compliance requirements of the PCI Data Security Standard. The Company may be subject to substantial penalties and fines if it is determined that its plans or performance do not meet the compliance requirements of the PCI Data Security Standard. A failure to successfully migrate customers at the Company's Colorado fulfillment services location from an outsourced data processing system to an internal system may burden the Company with continued additional costs. During fiscal 2003, Kable acquired the Colorado-based fulfillment services business of Electronic Data Systems Corporation ("EDS"). Since that time Kable has outsourced to EDS a substantial portion of the data processing required to service that business and during fiscal 2008 has migrated much of that activity to its own systems. However, under the outsourcing contract, the full outsourcing charge remains payable so long as any outsourcing services are provided. The Company anticipates completing this migration process by September 2008. The migration process is technically complex, however, and the Company continues to address issues that have delayed the complete migration. Should the Company encounter unanticipated problems that will further delay the complete migration, it may continue to be burdened with the outsourcing of this business. If the Company cannot efficiently integrate the constituents of its fulfillment business, it may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of Palm Coast, and the resources and attention required for successful integration may interrupt the existing fulfillment business. In January 2007, the Company acquired Palm Coast, which is, like Kable, a leading United States provider of fulfillment services to the magazine publishing industry. An important objective of the Company is to integrate the Company's two fulfillment businesses and thereby reduce costly duplications. There is a significant degree of difficulty involved in this process. The maintenance of ongoing operations of each business while integrating the businesses will depend on the Company's ability to retain key officers and personnel while it simultaneously proceeds to expand its operational and financial systems. This increase in operating complexities may have a negative near and long-term effect on the Company's anticipated benefits resulting from the acquisition. Other Business Risks - -------------------- The Company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, which could preclude it from continuing operations at their current levels, or from making future acquisitions. The Company's operations depend on its ability to obtain financing for the development of land in the real estate business, for working capital and capital expenditure requirements in the media services business, and for making future acquisitions. If the Company is not able to obtain suitable financing, its costs could increase and its revenues could decrease, or the Company could be precluded from continuing its operations at current or desired levels, or from making future acquisitions. Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and expensive to obtain the funds needed to operate the Company's businesses. The applicable interest rates on the revolving bank credit facilities that the Company has in place fluctuate based on changes in short-term interest rates. Increases in interest rates would increase the Company's interest expense and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and its ability to make acquisitions. The Company may engage in future acquisitions and may encounter difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses, and, therefore, may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions in the time frames anticipated, or at all. From time to time, the Company may seek to grow through strategic acquisitions intended to complement or expand one or more of its business segments, such as the acquisition of Palm Coast in January 2007, or to enable the Company to enter a new business. The success of these transactions will depend in part on the Company's ability to integrate the systems and personnel acquired in these 13 transactions into its existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. The Company may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with the Company's operations or in separately managing a new business. Furthermore, the Company may not realize the degree of benefits that the Company anticipates when first entering into a transaction, or the Company may realize benefits more slowly than it anticipates. Any of these problems or delays could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company's current management and internal systems may not be adequate to handle the Company's growth. To manage the Company's future growth, the Company's management must continue to improve operational and financial systems and to expand, train, retain and manage the Company's employee base. As the Company continues to grow, it will also likely need to recruit and retain additional qualified management personnel, and its ability to do so will depend upon a number of factors, including the Company's results of operations and prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel. At the same time, the Company will likely be required to manage an increasing number of relationships with various customers and other parties. If the Company's management personnel, systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support its operations, expansion could be slowed or halted and the opportunity to gain significant additional market share could be impaired or lost. Any inability on the part of the Company's management to manage the Company's growth effectively may adversely affect its results of operations. The Company's business could be seriously harmed if the Company's accounting controls and procedures are circumvented or otherwise fail to achieve their intended purposes. Although the Company evaluates its internal controls over financial reporting and the Company's disclosure controls and procedures at the end of each quarter, any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company's internal control systems and procedures, or the integration of its fulfillment businesses or any other future acquisitions and their respective internal control systems and procedures, will not result in or lead to a future material weakness in the Company's internal controls, or that the Company or its independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the Company's internal controls in the future. If the Company's internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, the Company may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and the price of the Company's common stock. Further, deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified by the Company could emerge and the identification and correction of those deficiencies or weaknesses could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company's pension plan, which the Company froze in 2004, is currently underfunded and may require additional cash contributions. The Company's pension plan was underfunded on a generally accepted accounting principles basis by approximately $2.0 million at April 30, 2008. The Company froze the pension plan effective March 1, 2004 so that from that date there would be no new participants in the plan and the existing participants' future compensation would not affect their pension benefits. A key assumption underlying the actuarial calculations upon which the Company's accounting and reporting obligations for the pension plan are based is an assumed investment rate of return of eight percent. If the pension plan assets do not realize the expected rate of return, or if any other assumptions are incorrect or are modified, the Company could be required to make contributions to the pension plan until the plan is fully funded, which could limit the Company's financial flexibility. 14 The Company's quarterly and annual operating results can fluctuate significantly. The Company has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in its quarterly and annual operating results, which may adversely affect the Company's stock price. Future quarterly and annual operating results may not align with past trends as a result of numerous factors, including many factors that result from the unpredictability of the nature and timing of real estate land sales, the variability in gross profit margins and competitive pressures. Changes in the Company's income tax estimates could affect profitability. In preparing the Company's consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate the Company's income taxes. The Company's estimates are based on its interpretation of federal and state tax laws and regulations. The Company estimates actual current tax due and assesses temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in the Company's consolidated balance sheet. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period, the Company will include the adjustments in the tax provision in its financial statements. These adjustments could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The price of the Company's common stock over the past two years has been volatile. This volatility may make it difficult for shareholders to sell the Company's common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. The market price for the Company's common stock varied between a high of $149.99 and a low of $26.17 per share during the two years ended April 30, 2008. This volatility may make it difficult for a shareholder to sell the Company's common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. The Company's stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in "Risk Factors," and: - variations in the Company's quarterly and annual operating results, which could be significant; - material announcements by the Company or the Company's competitors; - sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company's common stock; and - adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. In addition to the factors discussed above, the Company's common stock is relatively thinly traded, which means that large transactions in the Company's common stock may be difficult to conduct in a short time frame and may cause significant fluctuations in the price of the Company's common stock. The average daily trading volume in the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange over the ten-day trading period ending on April 30, 2008 was approximately 58,400 shares per day. Further, there have been, from time to time, significant "short" positions in the Company's common stock, consisting of borrowed shares sold, or shares sold for future delivery, which may not have been borrowed. The Company does not know whether any of these short positions are covered by "long" positions owned by the short sellers. The short interest in the Company's common stock, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on May 30, 2008, was approximately 316,000 shares, or approximately 5.3% of the Company's outstanding shares. Any attempt by the short sellers to liquidate their positions over a short period of time could cause significant volatility in the price of the Company's common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If the Company becomes involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of the Company's management's attention and resources and could harm the Company's stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the broader stock market has experienced significant price and volume 15 fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. The Company has a principal shareholder whose interests may conflict with other investors. The Company has a principal shareholder, Nicholas G. Karabots, who, together with certain of his affiliates, currently owns approximately 61% of the Company's outstanding common stock. As a result, this principal shareholder exercises significant influence over the Company's major decisions, including through his ability to vote for the members of the Company's Board of Directors. Because of this voting power, the principal shareholder could influence the Company to make decisions that might run counter to the wishes of the Company's other investors generally. In addition, publishing companies owned or controlled by the Company's principal shareholder are also significant customers of the Company's distribution business, as well as customers of its fulfillment services business, and, as a result, the shareholder may have business interests with respect to the Company that differ from or conflict with those of other holders of the Company's common stock. Although the Company has paid dividends in the preceding fiscal years, the Company has no regular dividend policy and offers no assurance of any future dividends. Any short-term return on an investment in the Company's stock will depend on its market price. The Company has paid special cash dividends on its common stock during the five fiscal years 2004 through 2008 of $0.25, $0.40, $0.55, $0.85 and $1.00 per share, and also paid an additional special cash dividend of $3.50 per share in January 2006. The Board of Directors has stated that it may consider special dividends from time-to-time in the future in light of conditions then existing, including earnings, financial condition, cash position, and capital requirements and other needs. Notwithstanding such statement and the status of such future conditions, no assurance is given that there will be any such future dividends declared or that future dividend declarations, if any, will be commensurate in amount or frequency with past dividends. The Company is currently a "controlled company" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules. As a result, the Company is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements and will not need to fully comply with those requirements until one year after the Company is no longer a "controlled company." Because Nicholas G. Karabots and certain of his affiliates together currently own more than 50% of the voting power of the Company's common stock, the Company is considered a "controlled company" for the purposes of the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange. As such, the Company is permitted, and has elected, to opt out of the New York Stock Exchange requirements that would otherwise require its compensation and human resources committee to consist entirely of independent directors. The Company has also opted not to have a nominating/corporate governance committee as required by the New York Stock Exchange for non-controlled companies. At such time, if any, as the Company is no longer considered a "controlled company" for purposes of the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange, those rules and regulations provide for a twelve month transition period during which the Company will not need to fully comply with the otherwise applicable requirements. The Company will not be required to have entirely independent compensation and human resources and nominating/corporate governance committees until twelve months following the date on which it ceases to be a controlled company, although the Company will need to phase in independent members for each of these committees starting on the date that it ceases to be a controlled company. While the Company remains a controlled company and during any transition period following the Company's ceasing to be a controlled company, shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. Oklahoma law and the Company's charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to decline. The Company is an Oklahoma corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Oklahoma law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the Company's existing shareholders. The Company's amended certificate of 16 incorporation generally prohibits the Company from engaging in "business combinations" with an "interested shareholder" unless the holders of at least two-thirds of the Company's then outstanding common stock approve the transaction. In addition to this restriction, some other provisions of the Company's amended certificate of incorporation and of its by-laws may discourage certain acts involving a fundamental change of the Company. For example, the Company's amended certificate of incorporation and its by-laws contain certain provisions that: - classify the Company's Board of Directors into three classes, each of which serves for a term of three years, with one class being elected each year; and - prohibit shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders. Because the Company's Board of Directors is classified and the Company's amended certificate of incorporation and by-laws do not otherwise provide, Section 1027 of the Oklahoma General Corporation Act permits the removal of any member of the board of directors only for cause. These provisions could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving the Company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for the Company's common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of the Company's common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - -------- ------------------------- Not applicable. 