Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are among those that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience and from the Company’s plans, projections or other forward-looking statements included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operations” below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only risks the Company faces, and other risks include those not presently known as well as those that are currently considered to be less significant. Major Business Risks The Company’s subsidiaries have substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s primary sources of funding for working capital requirements are cash flow from operations, the Company’s Media Services banking facility and working capital made available to the Company by customers. The Company’s liquidity is affected by many factors, including some that are based on normal operations and some that are related to the industries in which the Company operates and the economy generally. The Company’s Media Services businesses finance operations in part through a revolving credit facility that matures May 12, 2015 (the “Media Services Credit Facility”). AMREP Southwest finances its business from cash flow from operations, which has been minimal in recent years due to the poor conditions in its real estate markets, and from advances made to it by its parent. AMREP Southwest also has a loan agreement that matures December 1, 2017, which does not allow for additional borrowings. If the Company’s Media Services businesses are unable to extend or renew on similar terms the Media Services Credit Facility that expires in May 2015, the Media Services businesses would be obligated to repay the outstanding balance of the Media Services Credit Facility; similarly, if AMREP Southwest is unable to extend or renew on similar terms the AMREP Southwest loan that is due in December 2017, AMREP Southwest would be obligated to repay the outstanding balance of the AMREP Southwest loan. If this occurs, the Company’s Media Services businesses or AMREP Southwest, as the case may be, may not be able to fund in full or refinance these obligations at such time absent the Company obtaining additional debt or equity funding or raising capital through the sale of assets. Such additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all at such time. Any failure in this regard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, the Company’s Media Services businesses have operated with negative working capital ($25,752,000 at April 30, 2013) primarily through liquidity provided by one significant customer contract that expires June 2014. The negative working capital of the Company’s Media Services businesses represents the net payment obligation due to this customer and certain other third parties. On May 26, 2013, the Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business, which is part of the Company’s Media Services businesses, received notice that this customer contract would not be renewed upon its scheduled expiration in June 2014. The Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business is evaluating its ability to pay the net payment obligation represented by the negative working capital ($19,086,000 as of April 30, 2013) upon expiration of the contract. The Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business currently does not have sufficient capital to fund in full or refinance this obligation, and it may be unable to pay such amount and obtain other sources of working capital absent the Company obtaining additional debt or equity funding or raising capital through the sale of assets. Such additional funding or capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any failure to obtain capital to pay such obligation or to obtain other sources of working capital could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations; these circumstances could also trigger a default under the Company’s Media Services Credit Facility. In addition, this customer contract represented approximately 8.6% of revenues for the Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business for the year ended April 30, 2013 (or less than 1% of the Company’s consolidated revenues for that period), and the loss of this revenue following the expiration of the contract in June 2014 could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Due to the Company’s holding company structure, it is dependent on its subsidiaries to distribute funds upstream to the parent company. AMREP Corporation is a holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through subsidiaries. As a holding company, AMREP Corporation is dependent on distributions of funds from subsidiaries to pay expenses and fund operations. Because of the adverse conditions currently affecting AMREP Southwest, Media Services is presently the sole source of funding for the parent company’s operations, and the parent company in turn is supplying a substantial portion of the funding needed by AMREP Southwest. The continued availability of this funding is dependent upon the results of operations of Media Services and its continued compliance with the covenants in its revolving credit facility. The Company’s overall results of operations, future growth or both would be adversely affected if for any reason Media Services were unable to distribute sufficient funds to support the operations of the parent company and AMREP Southwest. If the cash available for distribution by Media Services were insufficient to fund the Company’s consolidated operations and the Company was not able to provide the funding needed by AMREP Southwest, the Company would be forced to seek either replacement financing or other sources of capital, such as by selling assets or issuing equity, which replacement financing or other sources of capital might not be available on acceptable terms (or at all). The Media Services Credit Facility requires the borrowers to meet certain covenants, including maintaining a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined. However, neither meeting a covenant’s requirement in the future nor obtaining relief from the lender if it is not met can be assured. At April 30, 2013, the borrowers were in compliance with the covenants of the Media Services Credit Facility. At April 30, 2013, the borrowing availability under the Media Services Credit Facility was $12,895,000, and there was $620,000 outstanding against this availability. The highest amount borrowed during the year ended April 30, 2013 was $6,770,000. Under the terms of the Media Services Credit Facility, in the event of any future non-compliance, the Media Services business would be barred from repaying indebtedness to or otherwise distributing funds to the parent company and the lender would be entitled to terminate the Media Services Credit Facility and seek immediate payment of any outstanding borrowing. The Company’s defined benefit pension plan is currently substantially underfunded and will require additional cash contributions, some of which are likely to be accelerated. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the Company’s defined benefit pension plan was underfunded at April 30, 2013 by $13,805,000. Although the Company froze the pension plan effective March 1, 2004, so that from that date there would be no new participants in the plan and the existing participants’ future compensation would not affect their pension benefits, the plan remains underfunded. A key assumption underlying the actuarial calculations for the pension plan is an assumed annual investment rate of return of 8.0%. If the pension plan assets do not realize this expected rate of return, or if any other assumptions underlying the actuarial calculations are incorrect or are modified, the Company may be required to make contributions to the pension plan beyond current requirements, which could negatively impact the Company’s limited financial resources. In addition, due to the closing of certain facilities in connection with the consolidation of the Company’s Subscription Fulfillment Services business and the associated work force reduction, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), and the regulations thereunder, have given the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”) the right to require the Company to accelerate the funding of $11,688,000 of accrued pension-related obligations to the pension plan. In August 2012, the Company and the PBGC reached an agreement with respect to this funding obligation, and as a result, the Company made a $3,000,000 cash contribution to the pension plan on August 16, 2012. The agreement also provided that if, before August 15, 2013, the Company is unable to pay the remaining $8,688,000 liability or adequately secure it with collateral acceptable to the PBGC, the Company would be required to either (i) provide a letter of credit equal to 110% of the remaining liability or establish a cash escrow for 100% of the remaining liability, to be maintained for five years or until the remaining liability is discharged, if sooner or (ii) discharge the remaining liability in quarterly installments over a five year period and secure it with collateral acceptable to the PBGC. In the event the Company fails to meet the terms of the agreement, the PBGC could seek immediate payment of the amount due or attempt to force a termination of the pension plan. Although the Company is currently having discussions with the PBGC about a comprehensive restructuring of this $8,688,000 payment obligation, the Company is unable to offer any assurance that it will be able to discharge the pension plan funding obligation by August 15, 2013 or otherwise meet the PBGC’s requirements for securing or paying the undischarged amount, and the Company cannot offer any assurance 8 that upon such inability it will be able to negotiate with the PBGC to obtain further relief. In addition, the Company may become subject to additional acceleration of its remaining accrued pension-related obligations to the pension plan if the Company closes certain additional facilities and further reduces its work force. Any such acceleration could negatively impact the Company’s limited financial resources and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition. The Company has incurred significant historical losses and cannot assure shareholders that the Company will be profitable in the near term or at all. The Company has incurred significant historical losses, including net losses of $2,838,000, $1,143,000 and $7,561,000 for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011, primarily due to highly competitive conditions in the Media Services businesses and the absence of meaningful real estate development and building activity after 2008 in the markets where AMREP Southwest owns real estate. The Company cannot assure shareholders that the economic or operating conditions affecting either of its principal businesses will improve or that the Company will return to profitability in the near term or at all. Risks Related to the Company’s Media Services Operations The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and advertising expenditures from print to other media has adversely affected the Company’s Media Services operations. Revenues in the Company’s Media Services operations are principally derived from services the Company performs for traditional publishers. Historically, a reduction in the demand for the Company’s newsstand distribution services due to lower sales of magazines at newsstands has often been at least partially offset by an increase in demand for the Company’s subscription fulfillment services as consumers affected by the reduction in newsstand distribution instead sought publications through subscription. However, technology changes, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment and media industries, continue to evolve rapidly, and advances in that technology have led to alternative methods for the distribution, storage and consumption of content such as that contained in the products distributed by the Company’s Media Services operations. These technological changes have driven and reinforced changes in consumer behavior as consumers increasingly seek control over when, where and how they consume content. For example, the distribution of news, entertainment and other information via the internet has become very popular, and consumers increasingly rely on electronic tablets and readers, personal computers, cellular phones and other electronic devices for such information. The resulting reduction in demand for traditional print media and the shift of advertising dollars from traditional print media to online media has adversely affected the publishing industry in general and has had a negative impact on both the Company’s Subscription Fulfillment Services and Newsstand Distribution Services businesses. The Company’s failure or inability to adapt to emerging technologies and changes in consumer behavior could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and its businesses and results of operations. The Company’s operating results depend in part on successful research, development and marketing of new or improved services and data processing capabilities and could suffer if the Company is not able to continue to successfully implement new technologies. The Company’s Media Services businesses operate in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, and must therefore continue to invest in developing technologies and improving various existing systems in order to remain competitive. There are substantial uncertainties associated with the Company’s efforts to develop new technologies and services for the subscription fulfillment and newsstand distribution markets the Company serves, including the Company’s lack of financial resources. Particularly in the Subscription Fulfillment Services business, the Company would need to make substantial capital investments in order to convert the Company’s business to newer digital and internet-based technologies. Some of the Company’s competitors have already adjusted their businesses for the growing digital market and any improvements the Company makes may not be developed until it is too late to compete effectively. Additionally, the cost and expertise needed to develop these new digital and internet-based technologies may be prohibitive for the Company, and even if the Company makes significant investments in new information processing technologies and services in these or other areas, they may not prove to be profitable. The failure or inability to successfully develop or employ new technologies and services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and its businesses and results of operations. Even if these developments are profitable, the operating margins resulting from their application would not necessarily equal, or result in an improvement over, the Company’s historical margins. 9 The Company’s Media Services operations could face increased costs and business disruption from instability in the newsstand distribution channel. The Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business operates a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute magazines to newsstands and other retail outlets. A small number of wholesalers are responsible for a substantial percentage of the wholesale magazine distribution business in the United States, and the Company extends credit to such wholesalers, whose credit worthiness and financial position may be affected by changes in economic or other external conditions. In recent years there has been instability in the wholesaler channel that has led to one major wholesaler abandoning the business and to certain disruptions to magazine distribution. In addition, another magazine wholesaler is in the process of restructuring itself after failing to timely meet its payment obligations to certain national distributors. The Company has reserved substantially all of the net accounts receivable due from this magazine wholesaler as an estimate for doubtful accounts, which resulted in a $2,000,000 charge to operations. There is the possibility of further consolidation among wholesalers, and the insolvency or non-payment of its obligations by one or more of these wholesalers would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, due to the significant concentration in the industry, should there be a disruption in the wholesale channel, it could impede the Company’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace. The Company’s publisher customers face business pressures from reduced advertising revenues and increased costs for paper, printing and postal rates. These factors could have a negative effect on their operating income, and this in turn could negatively affect the Company’s Media Services operations. An important source of revenue for the magazine publishing industry, the principal industry the Company serves, is advertising. As a result of the recent economic slowdown, there was a well-publicized reduction in advertising at all levels which caused a higher attrition rate of magazine titles than had been previously experienced. In addition, the Company’s publisher customers’ principal raw material is paper. Paper and printing prices have fluctuated over the past several years, and significant increases in paper prices could adversely affect a publisher customer’s operating income. Postage for magazine distribution and direct solicitation is another significant operating expense of the Company’s publisher customers, which primarily use the U.S. Postal Service to distribute their products. Any softness in advertising revenues or significant increases in paper costs, printing costs or postal rates that publishers are not able to offset could have a negative effect on their operating income and number of titles published, and this in turn could negatively affect the Company’s Media Services operations. Almost all of the revenues of the Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business are derived from sales made on a fully returnable basis, and an error in estimating expected returns could cause a misstatement of revenues for the period affected. As is customary in the magazine distribution industry, almost all of the commission revenues of the Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business are derived from sales made on a fully returnable basis, meaning that customers may return unsold copies of magazines for credit. From May 1, 2010 through April 30, 2013, customers ultimately returned for credit approximately 65% of the magazines the Company initially distributed. The Company recognizes commission revenues from the distribution of magazines at the time of delivery to the wholesalers, less a reserve for estimated returns that is based on historical experience and recent sales data on an issue-by-issue basis. Although the Company has the contractual right to return these magazines for offsetting credits from the publishers from whom the magazines are purchased, an error in estimating the percentage of returns at the end of an accounting period could have the effect of understating or overstating revenues in the period affected, which misstatement would have to be adjusted in a subsequent period when the actual return information becomes known. Competitive pressures may result in a decrease in the Company’s Media Services revenues and profitability. The subscription fulfillment and newsstand distribution services businesses are highly competitive, and some of the Company’s competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than the Company’s. The Company experiences significant price competition in the markets in which it competes. Competition in the Company’s Media Services businesses may come not only from other service providers, but also from the Company’s customers, who may choose to develop their own internal subscription fulfillment or newsstand distribution operations, thereby reducing demand for the Company’s services. Competitive pressures could cause the Company’s Media Services businesses to lose market share or result in significant price erosion that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 10 The Company may not be able to successfully introduce new services and data processing capabilities on a timely and cost-effective basis. The success of new and improved services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by the publishers and other customers with whom the Company conducts business. The Company’s Media Services businesses are affected, to varying degrees, by technological changes and shifts in customer demand. These changes result in the transition of services provided and increase the importance of being “first to market” with new services and information processing innovations. The Company may not have the financial and other resources necessary to successfully and timely develop such services or innovations. Difficulties or delays in the development, production or marketing of new services and information processing capabilities may be experienced, and may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. These difficulties and delays could also prevent the Company from realizing a reasonable return on the investment required to bring new services and information processing capabilities to market on a timely and cost-effective basis. The Company’s operations could be disrupted if its information systems fail, causing increased expenses and loss of sales. The Company’s business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its systems and communications capabilities, including the maintenance of customer databases for billing and label processing, and the Company’s magazine distribution order regulation system. If a key system was to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, even if only for a short period, the Company’s operations and financial results could be adversely affected. The Company’s systems could be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar event. The Company has a disaster recovery plan in place, but this plan may not prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. The Company’s business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate the Company for losses that may occur. The Company depends on the internet to deliver some services, which may expose the Company to various risks. Many of the Company’s operations and services, including order taking on behalf of customers and communications with customers and suppliers, involve the use of the internet. The Company is therefore subject to factors that adversely affect internet usage, including the reliability of internet service providers that from time to time may have operational problems and experience service outages or concentrated attacks from third parties seeking to disrupt commerce. Additionally, as the Company continues to increase the services it provides using the internet, the Company is increasingly subject to risks related to the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Failure to prevent security breaches of the Company’s networks or those of its customers, or a security breach affecting the internet in general, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive rules and regulations of credit card associations. The Company processes a large number of credit card transactions on behalf of its Subscription Fulfillment Services customers and is thus subject to the extensive rules and regulations of the leading credit card associations. The card associations modify their rules and regulations from time to time, and the Company’s inability to anticipate changes in such rules and regulations or in the interpretation or application thereof may result in substantial disruption to its business. In the event that the card associations or the sponsoring banks determine that the manner in which the Company processes certain credit card transactions is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or if the card associations adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which the Company processes credit card transactions, the Company may be subject to substantial penalties and fines and be forced to modify the manner in which it operates, which may increase costs, or to cease processing certain types of transactions altogether, any of which could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. Changes relating to consumer information collection and use could adversely affect the Company’s ability to collect and use data, which could harm its business. Public concern over methods of information gathering has led to the enactment of legislation in most jurisdictions that restricts the collection and use of consumer information. The Company engages in the collection and use of consumer information in connection with its clients’ businesses and the Company’s growing digital efforts. Further legislation, government regulations, industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations or a change in customs relating to the collection, management, aggregation and use of consumer information could materially 11 increase the cost of collecting that data, or limit the Company’s ability to provide information to its customers or otherwise utilize telemarketing or e-mail marketing or distribute the Company’s digital products across multiple platforms, and could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company faces government regulation and legal uncertainties related to internet communications, commerce and privacy regulation. The growth and development of the market for internet commerce and communications has prompted both federal and state laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personally identifiable information (including consumer credit and financial information), consumer protection, the content of online publications, the taxation of online transactions and the transmission of unsolicited commercial email, popularly known as “spam.” More laws and regulations are under consideration by various governments, agencies and industry self-regulatory groups. Although the Company’s compliance with applicable federal and state laws, regulations and industry guidelines has not to date had a material adverse effect on it, new laws and regulations may be introduced and modifications to existing laws may be enacted that require the Company to make changes to its business practices. Although the Company believes that its practices are in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies, if the Company were required to defend its practices against investigations of state or federal agencies or if the Company’s practices were deemed to violate applicable laws, regulations or policies, the Company could be penalized and some of its activities could be enjoined. Any of the foregoing could impact the Company’s ability to provide services, increase the cost of conducting online activities, decrease the demand for the Company’s services or lessen the Company’s ability to effectively market its services, or otherwise materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s intangible assets, including customer contracts and relationships, are periodically subject to asset impairment tests for accounting purposes, which may result in the incurrence of non-cash impairment charges. The Company periodically evaluates and reviews its intangible assets, including customer contracts and relationships, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Any such impairment charge would be included in the Company’s results of operations. The uncertainty of revenue trends in the media services industry, any decline in the Company’s estimate of revenues recoverable from its customer contracts and relationships, the general decline in the magazine publishing industry, which represents the Media Services business’s primary customer base, the recent recession that impacted the U.S. economy and consumers and the uncertainty about the economy’s future may adversely impact the recoverability of the Company’s intangible assets, including customer contracts and relationships, which may result in non-cash impairment charges that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Real Estate Operations The Company’s real estate assets are concentrated in one market, Rio Rancho, New Mexico, so that the Company’s results of operations and future growth may be limited or affected by economic changes in that market. Substantially all of the Company’s real estate assets are located in Rio Rancho, which is adjacent to Albuquerque, New Mexico. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Company has been and will be affected by changes in economic conditions that occur in this region from time to time, including regional economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or downturn of key industries and employers. The Company’s results of operations, future growth or both may be further adversely affected if the regional demand for residential and commercial real estate remains at the current historically low levels due to the prolonged severe decline in the real estate market in the greater Albuquerque-metro and Rio Rancho areas. Land sales have declined from 1,051 acres sold by the Company in fiscal 2007 to 12 acres sold in fiscal 2013, as builders have slowed the pace of building on developed lots previously purchased from the Company in Rio Rancho and delayed or cancelled the purchase of additional developed lots. A downturn in the business of Rio Rancho’s largest employer may adversely affect the Company’s real estate development business there. Intel Corporation (“Intel”) is the largest employer in Rio Rancho and operates a large semiconductor manufacturing facility there. Although Intel has made substantial investments in the Rio Rancho plant in recent years, the number of employees and on-site contractors at the plant fluctuates with the demand for the products produced at the plant. If 12 Intel’s presence in Rio Rancho were to diminish for any reason, such as in response to a downturn in its semiconductor manufacturing business or as a result of the relocation of its operations conducted there to another location, the Rio Rancho real estate market and the Company’s land development business would likely be adversely affected. As Rio Rancho’s population continues to grow, the Company’s land development activities in that market may be subject to greater limitations than they have been historically. When the Company acquired its core real estate inventory in Rio Rancho nearly 50 years ago, the area was not developed and had a small population. As of April 30, 2013, Rio Rancho was the third largest city in New Mexico with a population of approximately 93,000. As Rio Rancho’s population continues to grow, the Company may be unable to engage in development activities comparable to those the Company has engaged in historically. Local community or political groups may oppose the Company’s development plans or require modification of those plans, which could cause delays or increase the cost of the Company’s development projects. In addition, zoning density limitations, “slow growth” provisions or other land use regulations implemented by state, city or local governments could further restrict the Company’s development activities or those of its homebuilder customers, or could adversely affect financial returns from a given project, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Much of the Company’s remaining Rio Rancho real estate is not in contiguous properties, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell lots at levels comparable with the levels it experienced prior to the 2008 sales downturn. Of the approximately 17,345 acres in Rio Rancho that the Company owned at April 30, 2013, approximately 4,410 acres were in several areas of contiguous properties that are being developed or are suitable for development, and approximately 2,000 acres were in areas with a high concentration of ownership, where the Company owns more than 50% of the lots in the area, suitable for special assessment districts or city redevelopment areas that may allow for future development under the auspices of local government. The balance is in scattered lots, where the Company owns less than 50% of the lots in the area, which may require the purchase of a number of adjoining lots to create tracts suitable for development or that the Company may offer for sale individually or in small groups. As the Company’s land sales continue and the number of the Company’s contiguous and highly concentrated lots diminishes, the Company’s ability to continue to be in a position to sell lots and generate land sale revenues at satisfactory levels may be adversely affected, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s real estate assets are diminishing over time, meaning long-term growth in the Company’s real estate business will require the acquisition of additional real estate assets, possibly by expanding into new markets. Substantially all of the Company’s real estate revenues are derived from sales of its core inventory in Rio Rancho, New Mexico. This property was acquired nearly 50 years ago, and each time the Company develops and sells real estate to customers in Rio Rancho, these real estate assets diminish. As of April 30, 2013, the Company owned approximately 17,345 acres in Rio Rancho out of an original purchase of approximately 91,000 acres. The continuity and future growth of the Company’s real estate business, if the Company pursues such growth, will require that the Company acquire new properties in or near Rio Rancho or expand to other markets to provide sufficient assets to support a meaningful real estate development business. While the Company owns two properties in Colorado, the Company has not for many years made any significant attempt to identify a development opportunity similar to the one the Company has undertaken in Rio Rancho and has no current plans to do so. If the Company does not acquire new real estate assets, its real estate holdings will continue to diminish, which will adversely affect the Company’s ability to continue its real estate operations. The Company may not be able to acquire properties or develop them successfully. If the Company elects to pursue and is able to identify real estate development opportunities outside of Rio Rancho, the success of the Company’s real estate business will depend in large part upon its ability to acquire additional properties on satisfactory terms and to develop them successfully. If the Company is unable to do so, its results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 The acquisition, ownership and development of real estate are subject to many risks that may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, including risks that: • the Company may not be able to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate developers or investors who may have greater capital or better access to cash than the Company; • the Company may not be able to obtain or renew financing on acceptable terms, or at all; • an adverse change in market conditions during the interval between acquisition and sale of a property may result in a lower than originally anticipated profit; • the Company may underestimate the cost of development required to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where the Company may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, a lack of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and • the Company may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into the Company’s existing operations. In addition, the Company currently has approximately 450 developed lots available for sale in Rio Rancho. Development activities performed in connection with real estate sales include obtaining necessary governmental approvals, acquiring access to water supplies, installing utilities and necessary storm drains and building or improving roads. The development of additional lots for sale in Rio Rancho will require additional financing or other sources of funding, which may not be available. If the Company is unable to obtain such financing, its results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s real estate development activities have been primarily limited to a single market, and it may face substantially more experienced competition in acquiring and developing real estate in new markets. Since the Company’s real estate acquisition and development activities have been primarily limited to the Rio Rancho market, the Company does not have extensive experience in acquiring real estate in other markets or engaging in development activities in multiple markets simultaneously. Should the Company seek to acquire additional real estate in new markets, competition from other potential purchasers of real estate could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Many of these entities may have substantially greater experience than the Company has in identifying, acquiring and developing real estate opportunities in other markets and in managing real estate developments in multiple markets. These entities may also have greater financial resources than the Company has and may be able to pay more than the Company can or accept more risk than the Company is willing to accept to acquire real estate. These entities also may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the costs or the geographic concentration of their investments. This competition may prevent the Company from acquiring the real estate assets the Company seeks, or increase the cost of properties that the Company does acquire. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to the Company or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. The Company will likely compete for real estate investment opportunities with, among others, insurance companies, pension and investment funds, partnerships, real estate and housing developers, investment companies, real estate investment trusts and owner/occupants. Properties that the Company acquires may have defects that are unknown to the Company. Although the Company would expect to perform due diligence on prospective properties before they are acquired, and on a periodic basis after acquisition, any of the properties the Company may acquire may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to the Company that could adversely affect the property’s value or revenue potential or, in the case of environmental or other factors, impose liability on the Company, which could be significant. 14 Competition from other developers and land owners may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell lots and generate land sale revenues at satisfactory levels. The real estate business is highly competitive and fragmented. The Company competes with many developers and land owners of varying sizes ranging from local to national level businesses to complete land transactions. These developers and land owners may have greater financial, marketing, sales and other resources than those of the Company. The potential parties interested in the Company’s land holdings are primarily residential and commercial developers and commercial businesses and competition for these transactions is based on, among other things, price, location, land use, optionality of land use, and other development activities in the surrounding area. Given the geographic concentration of the Company’s real estate assets in Rio Rancho, which is adjacent to Albuquerque, New Mexico, the Company is subject to competition from land development in these areas. Three large real estate parcels not owned by the Company are under development in Albuquerque and Rio Rancho that will result in additional competition for the sale of the Company’s developed lots. Competition with other developers and land owners in Rio Rancho and Albuquerque may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell lots and generate land sale revenues at satisfactory levels, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to substantial legal, regulatory and other requirements regarding the development of land, including obtaining government approvals, which may be delayed or denied, and therefore the Company may encounter difficulties in obtaining entitlements on a timely basis, which could limit its ability to sell land. There are many legal, regulatory and other requirements regarding the development of land, which may delay the start of planned development activities, increase the Company’s expenses or limit the Company’s customers’ development activities. Development activities performed in connection with real estate sales include obtaining necessary governmental approvals, acquiring access to water supplies, installing utilities and necessary storm drains and building or improving roads. Numerous local, state and federal statutes, ordinances and rules and regulations, including those concerning zoning, resource protection and the environment, regulate these tasks. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the governmental authorities that regulate these matters and from whom the Company must obtain necessary approvals. The approval process can be lengthy and delays can increase the Company’s costs, as well as the costs for the primary customers of the Company’s real estate business (residential and commercial developers). Failure to obtain necessary approvals on a timely basis may significantly adversely affect the Company’s real estate development activities and its results of operations. The Company may be subject to environmental liability. Various laws and regulations impose liability on real property owners and operators for the costs of investigating, cleaning up and removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a property. In the Company’s role as a property owner or developer, the Company could be liable for such costs. This liability may be imposed without regard to the legality of the original actions and without regard to whether the Company knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. If the Company fails to disclose environmental issues, it could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of the property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs incurred by the government in connection with the contamination. If the Company incurs any such liability that is material, its results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. Increases in taxes or governmental fees may increase the Company’s costs. Also, adverse changes in tax laws could reduce customer demand for land for commercial and residential development. Increases in real estate taxes and other local governmental fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space and road improvements or to provide low and moderate income housing, would increase the Company’s costs and have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Municipal and state resources have been particularly strained as a consequence of the economic downturn that began in 2008 and as a result, many governmental entities have adopted significant tax increases. The Company cannot control these tax increases and may not be able to pass such increased costs on to purchasers, particularly as it generally holds properties for many years. In addition, further increases in local real estate taxes or changes in income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives related to real estate would increase the Company’s expenses and could adversely affect homebuilders’ potential customer demand and could adversely affect the Company’s future land sales to those homebuilders. 15 Unless the City of Rio Rancho supplements its current water supply, development of the Company’s remaining Rio Rancho land may be adversely affected. All of the Company’s future Rio Rancho land development will require water service from the City of Rio Rancho or from another source. While the city has not denied any development in the past due to a shortage of water supply, it has expressed concerns that its current water supply cannot support growth indefinitely. Although the city is currently pursuing various methods to supplement its water supply, if it is unsuccessful, development of the Company’s remaining Rio Rancho land could be restricted or adversely affected. Real estate is a cyclical industry, and the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected during cyclical downturns in the industry. During periods of economic expansion, the real estate industry typically benefits from an increased demand for land. In contrast, during periods of economic contraction, the real estate industry is typically adversely affected by a decline in demand for land. For example, increased rates of residential mortgage defaults that began in early calendar 2007 led to significant losses for the companies holding such mortgages and contributed to a severe and continuing downturn in the residential housing market. Further, real estate development projects typically begin, and financial and other resources are committed, long before such projects come to market, which could be during a time when the real estate market is depressed. There can be no assurance that an increase in demand or an economic expansion will occur or be sustained in the Rio Rancho market, where the Company’s core real estate business is based and operates, or in any new market into which the Company may expand its real estate operations. Any of the following (among other factors, including those mentioned elsewhere in these Risk Factors) could cause a general decline in the demand for residential or commercial real estate which, in turn, could contribute to a downturn in the real estate development industry that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations: • periods of general economic slowdown or recession; • change or uncertainty in government regulation; • rising interest rates or a decline in the general availability or affordability of mortgage financing; • adverse changes in local or regional economic conditions; • shifts in population away from the markets that the Company serves; • tax law changes, including potential limits on, or elimination of, the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense, real property taxes and employee relocation expenses, and uncertainty with respect to these matters; or • acts of God, including hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Changing credit conditions may adversely affect companies in the real estate industry, which rely upon credit in order to finance their purchases of land from the Company. Changes in interest rates and other economic factors can dramatically affect the availability of capital for the Company’s developer customers. Residential and commercial developers to whom the Company frequently sells land typically rely upon third party financing to provide the capital necessary for their acquisition of land. Changes in economic and other external market conditions can and have resulted in the inability of developers to obtain suitable financing, which has, and so long as these circumstances continue will, adversely impact the Company’s ability to sell land and could force the Company to sell land at lower prices, which would adversely affect its results of operations. Changes in general economic, real estate development or other business conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business and its financial results. A significant percentage of the Company’s real estate revenues have historically been derived from customers in the residential homebuilding business, which is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and factors such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of mortgage financing and interest rates. Adverse changes in these conditions have decreased demand for homes generally, and may continue to do so, 16 adversely affecting the pricing of homes and in turn the price of land sold to developers, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The real estate that the Company holds is periodically the subject of third party appraisals used for accounting purposes, which may result in the incurrence of non-cash impairment charges. The Company recently received third party appraisals of real estate inventory that had been sold but was subsequently repossessed (“take-back lots”). When repossessed, take-back lots are initially taken into inventory at fair market value less estimated costs to sell, and subsequently evaluated for impairment. The recently received appraisals resulted in the carrying value of certain take-back lots located in Rio Rancho being adjusted from $4,779,000 to fair value of $3,437,000 resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of $1,342,000, which has been included in the results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2013. Changes in economic and other external market conditions may further adversely impact the fair market value of the Company’s real estate inventory, which could lead to additional impairment charges that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. A number of contracts for individual Rio Rancho home site sales made prior to 1977 require the Company to exchange land in an area that is serviced by utilities for land in areas where utilities are not installed. In connection with certain individual home site sales made prior to 1977 at Rio Rancho, New Mexico, if water, electric and telephone utilities have not reached the lot site when a purchaser is ready to build a home, the Company is obligated to exchange a lot in an area then serviced by such utilities for the lot of the purchaser, without cost to the purchaser. Although this has not been the case in the past, if the Company were to experience a large number of requests for such exchanges in the future, its results of operations could be adversely impacted. If subcontractors are not available to assist in completing the Company’s land development projects, the Company may not be able to complete those projects on a timely basis. The development of land on a timely basis is critical to the Company’s ability to complete development projects in accordance with the Company’s contractual obligations. The availability of subcontractors in the markets in which the Company operates can be affected by factors beyond the Company’s control, including the general demand for these subcontractors by other developers. If subcontractors are not available when the Company requires their services, the Company may experience delays or be forced to seek alternative suppliers, which may increase costs or adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell land on a timely basis. Land investments are generally illiquid, and the Company may not be able to sell its properties when it is economically or otherwise important to do so. Land investments generally cannot be sold quickly, and the Company’s ability to sell properties has been and may continue to be affected by market conditions. The Company may not be able to diversify concentration risk or vary its portfolio quickly in response to economic or other conditions. The Company’s ability to pay down debt, reduce interest costs and acquire properties is dependent upon its ability to sell the properties it has selected for disposition at the prices and within the deadlines the Company has established for each property. Other Risks The Company may engage in future acquisitions and may encounter difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses, and, therefore, may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions in the time frames anticipated, or at all. From time to time, the Company may seek to grow through strategic acquisitions intended to complement or expand one or more of its businesses or to enable the Company to enter a new business. The success of these transactions will depend in part on the Company’s ability to integrate the systems and personnel acquired in these transactions into its existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. The Company may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with the Company’s operations or in separately managing a new business. Furthermore, the Company may not realize the degree of benefits that the Company anticipates when first entering into a transaction, or the Company may realize benefits more slowly than it anticipates. Any of these problems or delays could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. 17 The Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer. On January 22, 2013, Theodore J. Gaasche, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, resigned from those positions which he had held since August 2011. No successor has been appointed or identified, and the Company may continue to operate without a Chief Executive Officer for the foreseeable future. From January 1996 until August 2011, the Company also operated without a Chief Executive Officer. Following his resignation as President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company’s board of directors elected Mr. Gaasche as a member of the board of directors and Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee of the board of directors. In the absence of a Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Committee is charged with the oversight of the Company’s business between meetings of the board of directors. However, the Executive Committee does not function as an executive officer. Without a Chief Executive Officer, the Company does not have the benefit of the operational oversight and strategic leadership that a person in that position would normally provide, which may adversely affect the Company’s business and prospects. The Company’s current management and internal systems may not be adequate to handle the Company’s growth, if any. To manage the Company’s future growth, if any, the Company’s management must continue to improve operational and financial systems and to expand, train, retain and manage the Company’s employee base. If the Company grows, it will also likely need to recruit and retain additional qualified management personnel, and its ability to do so will depend upon a number of factors, including the Company’s results of operations and prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel. At the same time, the Company will likely be required to manage an increasing number of relationships with various customers and other parties. If the Company’s management personnel, systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support its operations, expansion could be slowed or halted and the opportunity to gain significant additional market share could be impaired or lost. Any inability of the Company’s management to manage the Company’s growth effectively may adversely affect its results of operations. The Company’s business could be seriously harmed if the Company’s accounting controls and procedures are circumvented or otherwise fail to achieve their intended purposes. Although the Company evaluates its internal controls over financial reporting and its disclosure controls and procedures at the end of each quarter, any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system will be met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company’s internal control systems and procedures, or any future acquisitions and their respective internal control systems and procedures, will not result in or lead to a material weakness in the Company’s internal controls, or that the Company or its independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the Company’s internal controls in the future. If the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, the Company’s financial statements could become incorrect or misleading and the Company may experience a loss of public confidence, which could subject the Company to liability and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and the price of the Company’s common stock. Further, deficiencies or weaknesses that the Company has not yet identified could emerge and the identification and correction of those deficiencies or weaknesses could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s quarterly and annual operating results can fluctuate significantly. The Company has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in its quarterly and annual operating results, which may adversely affect the Company’s stock price. Future quarterly and annual operating results may not align with past trends as a result of numerous factors, including many factors that result from the unpredictability of the nature and timing of land sales, the variability in gross profit margins and competitive pressures. 18 Changes in the Company’s income tax estimates could affect profitability. In preparing the Company’s consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate the Company’s income taxes. The Company’s estimates are based on its interpretation of federal and state tax laws and regulations. The Company estimates actual current tax due and assesses temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities and changes in tax laws. To the extent adjustments are required in any given period, the Company will include the adjustments in the tax provision in its financial statements. These adjustments could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The price of the Company’s common stock in recent years has been volatile and has been subject to above average selling pressure from time to time. This may make it difficult for shareholders to sell the Company’s common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. The market price for the Company’s common stock varied between a high of $15.77 and a low of $4.80 per share between May 1, 2010 and April 30, 2013. This volatility may make it difficult for a shareholder to sell the Company’s common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. The Company believes the price of its common stock has been adversely affected from time to time by above average selling pressure created by institutions that have received charitable gifts of the Company’s common stock and engaged in selling programs to liquidate such positions. From October 3, 2011 to May 17, 2013, the Company’s largest shareholder, Nicholas Karabots, has donated shares he has beneficially owned representing approximately 24% of the Company’s outstanding common stock to such institutions. The stock price may continue to be volatile and subject to significant price fluctuations in response to market and other factors (including those mentioned elsewhere in these Risk Factors), and: • variations in the Company’s quarterly and annual operating results, which could be significant; • material announcements by the Company or the Company’s competitors; • sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock; and • adverse changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition to the factors discussed above, the Company’s common stock is often thinly traded. As a result large transactions in the Company’s common stock may be difficult to execute in a short time frame and may cause significant fluctuations in the price of the Company’s common stock. Among other reasons, the stock is thinly traded due to the fact that four of the Company’s shareholders beneficially own a substantial majority of the outstanding common stock. The average trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange over the ten-day trading period ending on April 30, 2013 was approximately 10,100 shares per day. This thin trading market, when combined with additional selling pressure, including selling by institutions that receive charitable gifts as described above, can result in overall negative stock price and trading trends, which can last as long as the additional selling pressure continues. Further, there have been, from time to time, significant “short” positions in the Company’s common stock, consisting of borrowed shares sold, or shares sold for future delivery, which may not have been borrowed. Any attempt by the short sellers to liquidate their positions over a short period of time could cause significant volatility in the price of the Company’s common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies have been the subject of securities class action litigation. The Company has not been involved in any securities class action litigation; however, if the Company were to become involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of the Company’s management’s attention and resources and could harm the Company’s stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the broader stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. 19 The Company has a significant shareholder whose interests may conflict with those of other investors. The Company has a significant shareholder, Nicholas G. Karabots, who, together with certain of his affiliates, beneficially owns 34.8% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Because of his significant voting power, this shareholder, who resigned as a member of the Company’s board of directors effective January 22, 2013, could influence the Company to make decisions that might run counter to the wishes of the Company’s other shareholders. Additionally, Mr. Karabots may be able to influence the Company’s board of directors and management as he (including through companies that he controls) (i) is the employer of Theodore J. Gaasche, a director on the Company’s board of directors and Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Company’s board of directors, (ii) has a commercial relationship with Lonnie A. Coombs (another member of the Company’s board of directors) who is also a director of a private company owned by Mr. Karabots, (iii) is the father-in-law of Michael P. Duloc, who is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company’s Media Services businesses and (iv) is the owner of Kappa Lending Group, LLC, a company that holds $16,007,000 of debt of AMREP Southwest, and which could exert substantial additional control over AMREP Southwest and the Company in the event of certain future breaches or defaults concerning such debt. In addition, a publishing company owned by Mr. Karabots is the largest customer of the Company’s Newsstand Distribution Services business, as well as a customer of the Company’s Subscription Fulfillment Services business. For its fiscal years ended April 30, 2012, the Company’s revenues from the newsstand distribution and fulfillment services it provided to Mr. Karabots’ publishing company amounted to $1,545,000, which was approximately 1.8% of the Company’s consolidated revenues for that period. For its fiscal years ended April 30, 2013, the Company’s revenues from the newsstand distribution and fulfillment services it provided to Mr. Karabots’ publishing company amounted to $1,458,000, which was approximately 1.8% of the Company’s consolidated revenues for that period. As a result, Mr. Karabots may have business interests with respect to the Company that differ from or conflict with the interests of other holders of the Company’s common stock. Although the Company has paid dividends in the past, no dividends have been paid since 2008; the Company has no regular dividend policy and can give no assurance of any future dividends. The Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock since fiscal year 2008. The board of directors has stated that it may consider special dividends from time-to-time in the future in light of conditions then existing, including earnings, financial condition, cash position, and capital requirements and other needs. No assurance is given that there will be any such future dividends declared. Certain provisions of Oklahoma law and the Company’s organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which may have a limiting effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company is an Oklahoma corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of its certificate of incorporation and of Oklahoma law generally prohibit the Company from engaging in “business combinations” with an “interested shareholder,” as those terms are defined therein, unless the holders of at least two-thirds of the Company’s then outstanding common stock approve the transaction. Consequently, the concurrence of the Company’s significant shareholder, Mr. Karabots and his affiliates, is needed for any third party (other than Mr. Karabots and his affiliates) to acquire control of the Company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the Company’s other shareholders. In addition to this restriction, some other provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage certain acts that would involve the Company undergoing a fundamental change. For example, the Company’s certificate of incorporation and its by-laws contain certain provisions that: • classify the Company’s board of directors into three classes, each of which serves for a term of three years, with one class being elected each year; and • prohibit shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders. Because the Company’s board of directors is classified and the Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws do not otherwise provide, Section 1027 of the Oklahoma General Corporation Act permits the removal of any member of the board of directors only for cause. These factors could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving the Company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for the Company’s common stock, which could have a limiting effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 