ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although various risk factors and specific cautionary statements are described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in units of the Trust. Marine is unable to acquire royalty interests in any more leases. Marine’s overriding royalty interest applies only to existing leases and does not apply to new leases that Chevron or Elf may acquire. Therefore, Chevron, Elf and their assignees are no longer obligated to assign any interest to Marine out of any lease that they acquire. In addition, Marine is not permitted to carry on any business, including making investments in additional oil and gas interests. Marine will continue to receive payments on its existing leases, so long as the leases exist. Once the leases terminate or expire, any overriding royalties payable to Marine will terminate and Marine cannot acquire any additional or replacement royalty interests. Royalty interests are depleting assets and, if the working interest owners or other operators of the leases do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected or entirely. The net proceeds payable to Marine are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Future maintenance and development projects on the leases will likely affect production. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of oil and natural gas. If operators of the leases do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline may be higher than the rate currently experienced by Marine. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce royalty payments to Marine and distributions to its unitholders. Marine’s quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil and natural gas. A significant downward movement in the prices for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on Marine’s revenues and operating cash flows, which could decrease the distributions to unitholders. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to factors beyond Marine’s control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. -4- Table of Contents Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economical to produce and reduce distributable income available to Marine. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to unitholders. Substantially all of the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the leases is being sold under short-term or multi-month contracts at market clearing prices or on the spot market. Operating risks for the working interest owners’ interests on the leases can adversely affect distributions. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and other natural disasters on the properties underlying the leases can reduce distributions. These occurrences include blowouts, cratering, explosions, environmental and hurricane damage that may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. For example, there were two major hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Some wells were lost due to these hurricanes. Other wells were off production for most of the quarter that ended December 31, 2005 and did not start recovering until the quarter that ended June 30, 2006. As a result, oil and natural gas production was down during certain of these periods. The owner of any underlying properties of the leases may transfer any of the properties to another unrelated third party. The working interest owners may at any time transfer all or part of property underlying a lease to another unrelated third party. Unitholders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and Marine will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the lease will continue to be subject to Marine’s royalty interest, but the net proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to Marine its royalty interest on the transferred portion of the lease, and the current owner of the underlying property would have no continuing obligation to Marine for that property. The owner of any underlying properties of the leases may abandon any property, terminating the related royalty interest Marine may hold. The current working interest owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of Marine’s royalty interest relating to the abandoned well or property. The Trustee, Marine and its unitholders do not control the operation or development of the underlying properties of the leases and have little influence over operation or development. The Trustee, Marine and the Trust’s unitholders have little, if any, influence or control over the operation or future development of the underlying properties of the leases. The properties underlying the leases are owned by independent working interest owners. The working interest owners manage the underlying properties and handle receipt and payment of funds relating to the leases and payments to Marine for its royalty interests. The current working interest owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. The Trustee, Marine and the Trust’s unitholders do not have the right to replace an operator. Important reserve and other information with respect to the particular leases subject to Marine’s royalty interest is difficult to obtain. The leasehold working interests that are subject to the rights held by Marine are owned, in most cases, in whole or in part by Chevron, or other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Certain information with respect to the particular leases subject to Marine’s interests, including, but not limited to, (i) reserves, (ii) availability of oil and natural gas, (iii) average production cost (lifting cost) per unit, (iv) undeveloped acreage and (v) net wells and net acres, lies solely within the knowledge of these working interest owners. Engineering data, if any, regarding these leaseholds would have been compiled principally by or for the working interest owners of these leaseholds and Marine believes that it will not be provided access to such information. -5- Table of Contents Terrorism and continued geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect Marine’s distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response to such attacks or threats, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and other geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect the Trust’s distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators of the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. Unitholders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate trustee in accordance with the Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has limited discretion in its administration of the Trust. The limited liability of the unitholders is uncertain. The unitholders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation’s liabilities. The structure of the Trust as a trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership, which would provide further limited liability protection to interest holders. While the Trust is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to insure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of the Trust’s assets, under the laws of the state of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a holder of units may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liabilities was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, unitholders may be exposed to personal liability. Marine’s royalty interest can be sold and the Trust can be terminated. The Trust may be terminated and the Trustee may sell Marine’s royalty interests if holders of 80% of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust approve the sale and vote to terminate the Trust. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the unitholders and unitholders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. Any such sale may not be on terms acceptable to all unitholders. The operators of the working interest owner are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by Federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. Although Marine is unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact royalty interests. If it is determined that Marine is subject to the Texas franchise tax, the Trustee may have to withhold an amount from future distributions to pay the tax liability. In May 2006, the State of Texas enacted legislation, as amended in June 2007, to implement a new franchise or “margin” tax. Certain entities that were previously exempt from the franchise tax, including many trusts, may now be subject to the tax. Trusts, however, other than business trusts (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation section 301.7701-4(b)), that meet certain statutory requirements are exempt from the franchise tax as “passive entities.” The Trustee does not expect that the Trust will be required to pay any amounts under the new Texas state franchise tax for tax year 2007, based on the Trustee’s belief that the Trust is exempt from the franchise tax as a passive entity (i.e., the Trust is not a business trust, it receives at least 90% of its Federal gross income from certain -6- Table of Contents passive sources, and no more than 10% of its income is derived from an active trade or business). If it is subsequently determined that the Trust is not exempt from the franchise tax, the Trust will be required to deduct and withhold from future distributions the amount required to satisfy and pay the Trust’s franchise tax liability for tax year 2007. In addition, the Trust would be required to timely pay franchise tax liability due with respect to current and future years. Assuming the Trust is exempt from the Texas state franchise tax as a passive entity, each unitholder that is subject to the Texas franchise tax as a taxable entity under the Texas Tax Code (which does not include natural persons) would generally include its share of the Trust’s revenue in its franchise tax computation. Each unitholder is urged to consult his or her own tax advisor regarding his or her possible Texas state franchise tax liability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 