ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although various risk factors and specific cautionary statements are described elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in units of Marine. Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce net proceeds available to Marine and distributions to its unitholders. Marine’s quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil and natural gas. A significant downward movement in the prices for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating cash flows, which could decrease our distributions to unitholders. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economic to produce and reduce net profits available to Marine. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to unitholders. Substantially all of the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the Royalty Area is being sold under short-term or multi-month contracts at market clearing prices or on the spot market. Operating risks for the working interest owners’ interests in the Royalty Area can adversely affect distributions. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and other natural disasters in the Royalty Area will reduce distributions. These occurrences include blowouts, cratering, explosions, environmental and hurricane damage that may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. For example there were two major hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Some wells were lost due to these hurricanes. Other wells were off production for most of the quarter that ended December 31, 2005 and did not start recovering until the quarter that ended June 30, 2006. Oil and natural gas production for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006 were down 45%, 61%, 41% and 7% from the oil and natural gas production realized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The operators of the working interest owner are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. Although we are unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact our royalty interests. -4- Table of Contents The Trustee, Marine and its unitholders do not control the operation or development of the properties in the Royalty Area and have little influence over operation or development. The Trustee, Marine and its unitholders have little, if any, influence or control over the operation or future development of the underlying properties. The properties in the Royalty Area are owned by independent working interest owners. The working interest owners manage the underlying properties and handle receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Area and payments to Marine for its royalty interests. The current working interest owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. The Trustee, Marine and its unitholders do not have the right to replace an operator. The owner of any properties in the Royalty Area may abandon any property, terminating the related royalty interest Marine may hold. The working interest owners may at any time transfer all or part of the properties in the Royalty Area to another unrelated third party. Unitholders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and Marine will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty Area will continue to be subject to Marine’s royalty interest, but the net proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to Marine its royalty interest on the transferred portion of the Royalty Area, and the current owner of the Royalty Area would have no continuing obligation to Marine for those properties. The current working interest owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of Marine’s royalty interest relating to the abandoned well. Marine’s royalty interest can be sold and the Marine trust can be terminated. The Marine trust may be terminated and the Trustee may sell Marine’s royalty interests if holders of 80% of the units of beneficial interest of Marine approve the sale and vote to terminate the trust. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the unitholders and unitholders will receive no further distributions from Marine. Any such sale may not be on terms acceptable to all unitholders. Royalty interests are depleting assets and, if the working interest owners or other operators of the Royalty Area do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The net proceeds payable to Marine are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects in the Royalty Area will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of oil and natural gas. If operators of the Royalty Area do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently experienced by Marine. Unitholders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, Marine is administered by a corporate Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of Marine. Terrorism and continued geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect Marine’s distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and other geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect Marine’s distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators of the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. -5- Table of Contents Important reserve and other information with respect to the particular leases subject to Marine’s royalty interest is difficult to obtain. The leasehold working interests that are subject to the rights held by Marine are owned, in most cases, in whole or in part by Chevron, or other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Certain information as to reserves, availability of oil and natural gas, average production cost (lifting cost) per unit, undeveloped acreage, net wells and net acres, with respect to the particular leases subject to Marine’s interests, lies solely within the knowledge of these concerns. Engineering data, if any, regarding these leaseholds would have been compiled principally by or for the working interest owners of these leaseholds. Historically, Marine has not had access to this information and does not expect to have access to this information in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 