Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements, which, to the extent that they are not a recitation of historical facts, constitute “forward-looking statements” pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements about product development, market and industry trends, strategic initiatives, regulatory approvals, sales, profits, expenses, price trends, research and development expenses and trends, and capital expenditures, involve risk and uncertainties, and actual events and results may differ significantly from those indicated in any forward-looking statement as a result of a number of important factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere herein. 8 Table of Contents You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s common stock. Additional risks not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business. Any of these could have a material and negative effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. Because a significant portion of the Company’s revenue currently comes from a small number of customers, any decrease in revenue from these customers could harm the Company’s operating results. The Company depends on a small number of customers for a large portion of its business, and changes in its customers’ orders could have a significant impact on the Company’s operating results. If a major customer significantly reduces the amount of business it does with the Company, there would be an adverse impact on its operating results. The Company had two customers, as set forth in the table below, who accounted for 10% or more of the net product and engineering revenue during fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006. Year Ended July 31, 2008 2007 2006 Customer 1 17 % 18 % 19 % Customer 2 11 % 11 % 17 % The Company’s ten largest customers as a group accounted for 67%, 68%, and 70% of the Company’s net product and engineering revenue for fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. There were no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net accounts receivable at July 31, 2008 or 2007. Although the Company is seeking to broaden its customer base, it will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of major customers. Because it often takes significant time to replace lost business, it is likely that the Company’s operating results would be adversely affected if one or more of the Company’s major customers were to cancel, delay, or reduce significant orders in the future. The Company’s customer agreements typically permit the customer to discontinue future purchases after timely notice. In addition, the Company generates significant accounts receivable in connection with the products the Company sells and the services it provides to its major customers. Although the Company’s major customers are large corporations, if one or more of its customers were to become insolvent or otherwise be unable to pay for the Company’s products and services, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Competition from existing or new companies in the medical and security imaging technology industry could cause the Company to experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, and the loss of market share. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry. The Company is subject to competition based on product design, performance, pricing, quality, and service offerings, and management believes the Company’s innovative engineering and product reliability have been important factors in its growth. While the Company tries to maintain competitive pricing on those products which are directly comparable to products manufactured by others, in many instances the Company’s products conform to more exacting specifications and carry a higher price than analogous products manufactured by others. The Company’s competitors include divisions of larger, more diversified organizations as well as specialized companies. Some of them have greater resources and larger staffs than the Company has. Many of the Company’s existing and potential OEM customers have the ability to design and manufacture internally the products that the Company manufactures for them. The Company faces competition from the research and 9 Table of Contents product development groups and manufacturing operations of its existing and potential customers, who continually compare the benefits of internal research, product development, and manufacturing with the costs and benefits of outsourcing. The Company depends on its suppliers, some of which are the sole source for certain components, and its production could be substantially curtailed if these suppliers were not able to meet the Company’s demands and alternative sources were not available. The Company orders raw materials and components to complete its customers’ orders, and some of these raw materials and components are ordered from sole-source suppliers. Although the Company works with its customers and suppliers to minimize the impact of shortages in raw materials and components, the Company sometimes experiences short-term adverse effects due to price fluctuations and delayed shipments. In the past, there have been industry-wide shortages of electronics components. If a significant shortage of raw materials or components were to occur, the Company might have to delay shipments or pay premium pricing, which could adversely affect its operating results. In some cases, supply shortages of particular components could substantially curtail the Company’s production of products using these components. The Company is not always able to pass on price increases to its customers. Accordingly, some raw material and component price increases could adversely affect its operating results. The Company also depends on a small number of suppliers to provide many of the other raw materials and components that it uses in its business. Some of these suppliers are affiliated with customers or competitors, and others are small companies. If the Company were unable to continue to purchase these raw materials and components from its suppliers, its operating results could be adversely affected. Because many of the Company’s costs are fixed, its margins depend on the volume of output at its facilities, and a reduction in volume could adversely affect its margins. The Company relies on successful performance by and relationships with subcontractors, which reliance could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company has formed arrangements with subcontractors for various services and components. The Company has formed such arrangements because it is commercially more efficient to outsource such services and purchase such components than it would be for it to perform or manufacture such services and components, which in some cases require, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment that is not practical or cost-effective for it to develop or acquire. As a result, if one of the Company’s subcontractors were to experience quality problems, capacity constraints, decreased yields, or delivery delays, or were to raise prices significantly, the Company could face product liability claims, product shortages, decreased revenues or lost customers, which could adversely affect its operating results. If the Company were to be left with excess inventory, its operating results could be adversely affected. Because of long lead times and specialized product designs, in certain cases the Company purchases components and manufactures products in anticipation of customer orders based on customer forecasts. For a variety of reasons, such as decreased end-user demand for the Company’s products, its customers might not purchase all the products that it has manufactured or for which it has purchased components. In either event, the Company would attempt to recoup material and manufacturing costs by means such as returning components to its vendors, disposing of excess inventory through other channels, or requiring its OEM customers to purchase or otherwise compensate it for such excess inventory. Some of the Company’s significant customer agreements do not give it the ability to require its OEM customers to do this. To the extent that the Company was unsuccessful in recouping its material and manufacturing costs, its net sales and operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, carrying excess inventory would reduce the working capital the Company has available to continue to operate and grow its business. 10 Table of Contents Uncertainties and adverse trends affecting the Company’s industry or any of its major customers could adversely affect its operating results. The Company’s business operates primarily within two major markets within the electronics industry, Medical Technology Products and Security Technology Products, which are subject to rapid technological change, and pricing, and margin pressure. These markets have historically been cyclical and subject to significant downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices, and production over-capacity. In addition, changes in government policy relating to reimbursement for the purchase or use of medical and security-related capital equipment could also affect the Company’s sales. The Company’s customers’ markets are also subject to economic cycles and are likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. The economic conditions affecting the Company’s industry in general, or any of its major customers in particular, might adversely affect its operating results. The Company’s other businesses are subject to the same or greater technological and cyclical pressures. The Company’s customers’ delay or inability to obtain any necessary United States or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for their products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s products are used by a number of its customers in the production of medical devices that are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. A delay in obtaining or inability to obtain any necessary United States or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. There is a further risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, might be withdrawn or modified. Medical devices cannot be marketed in the United States without clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Medical devices sold in the United States must also be manufactured in compliance with FDA rules and regulations, which regulate the design, manufacturing, packing, storage, and installation of medical devices. Moreover, medical devices are required to comply with FDA regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. States may also regulate the manufacturing, sale, and use of medical devices. Medical devices are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. The Company’s business strategy involves the pursuit of acquisitions or business combinations, which, if consummated, could be difficult to integrate, disrupt the Company’s business, dilute stockholder value, or divert management attention. As part of the Company’s business strategy, the Company might consummate acquisitions or business combinations. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of the Company’s ongoing business and distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition, and potential unknown or underestimated liabilities associated with acquired businesses. If the Company does not successfully complete acquisitions that it pursues in the future, it could incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without generating any benefit to the Company. In addition, substantial portions of the Company’s available cash might be utilized as consideration for these acquisitions. The Company’s annual and quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, which could affect the market price of its common stock. The Company’s annual and quarterly results could vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of the Company’s common stock could decline. These factors include: • variations in the timing and volume of customer orders relative to the Company’s manufacturing capacity; • introduction and market acceptance of the Company’s customers’ new products; 11 Table of Contents • changes in demand for the Company’s customers’ existing products; • the timing of the Company’s expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • effectiveness in managing the Company’s manufacturing processes; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally or in the Company’s customers’ markets; • changes in the cost or availability of components or skilled labor; • changes in the Company’s effective tax rate; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • foreign currency exposure; and • investor and analyst perceptions of events affecting the Company, its competitors, and/or its industry. A delay in anticipated sales could result in the deferral of the associated revenue beyond the end of a particular quarter, which would have a significant effect on the Company’s operating results for that quarter. In addition, most of the Company’s operating expenses do not vary directly with net revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if revenues for a particular quarter were below the Company’s expectations, the Company could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Hence, the revenue shortfall could have a disproportionate adverse effect on its operating results for that quarter. Loss of any of the Company’s key personnel could hurt its business because of their industry experience and their technological expertise. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and depends on the services of its key senior executives and its technological experts. The loss of the services of one or several of its key employees or an inability to attract, train, and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering and operations personnel, could result in the loss of customers or otherwise inhibit the Company’s ability to operate and grow its business successfully. If the Company is unable to maintain its expertise in research and product development, manufacturing processes, and marketing new products, it might not be able to compete successfully. The Company believes that its future success depends upon its ability to provide research and product development, provide manufacturing services that meet the changing needs of its customers, and market new products. This requires that the Company successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, the Company continually evaluates the advantages and feasibility of new product designs, and manufacturing processes. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the creation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security have increased financial expectations that may not materialize. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the subsequent creation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security have created increased interest in the Company’s security and inspection systems. However, the level of demand for the Company’s products is not predictable and may vary over time. The Company does not know what solutions will continue to be adopted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security as a result of terrorism and whether its products will continue to be a part of the solutions. Additionally, should the Company’s products be considered as a part of the future security solution, it is unclear what the level of purchases may be and how quickly funding to purchase the Company’s products may be made available. These factors could adversely impact the Company and create unpredictability in revenues and operating results. 12 Table of Contents The Company is exposed to risks associated with international operations and markets. The Company markets and sells products in international markets, and has established offices and subsidiaries in Denmark, Germany, Italy, and Canada. Revenues from international operations accounted for 21%, 20%, and 20% of total revenues for fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. From its U.S. operations, the Company also ships directly to customers in Europe and Asia, for which shipments accounted for 29%, 28%, and 30% of total revenues for fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. There are inherent risks in transacting business internationally, including: • changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements; • export and import restrictions; • export controls relating to technology; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • intellectual property laws that offer less protection for the Company’s proprietary rights; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; • political instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • expatriation controls; and • potential adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future international activities and, consequently, on its business and results of operations. If the Company becomes subject to intellectual property infringement claims, it could incur significant expenses and could be prevented from selling specific products. The Company may become subject to claims that it infringes the intellectual property rights of others in the future. The Company cannot ensure that, if made, these claims will not be successful. Any claim of infringement could cause the Company to incur substantial costs defending against the claim even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management from other business. Any judgment against the Company could require substantial payment in damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent the Company from offering certain products. If operators of the Company’s security and inspection systems fail to detect weapons, explosives or other devices that are used to commit a terrorist act, the Company could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which it may not have adequate insurance coverage. The Company’s business exposes it to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing, sale and service of security inspection systems. The Company’s customers use its security and inspection systems to help them detect items that could be used in performing terrorist acts or other crimes. The training, reliability and competence of the customer’s operators are crucial to the detection of suspicious items. In addition, the Company’s security and inspection systems are not designed to work under all circumstances. The Company tests the reliability of its security and inspection systems during both their development and manufacturing phases. The Company also performs such tests if it is requested to perform installation, warranty or post-warranty servicing. However, the Company’s security inspection systems are advanced mechanical and electronic devices and therefore can malfunction. 13 Table of Contents As a result of the September 11, 2001, and 1993 World Trade Center bombing attacks, and the potential for future attacks, product liability insurance coverage for such threats is extremely difficult and costly to obtain. It is possible, subject to the applicability of the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (the “SAFETY Act”), that if the Company was found to liable following a major act of terrorism, its insurance coverages might not fully cover the claims for damages. The SAFETY Act is a federal law enacted to provide certain legal liability protections for providers of certain anti-terrorism technologies. If applicable to claims against Analogic, the SAFETY Act could mitigate some of this risk. The Company’s security and inspections systems business depends in part on purchases of products and services by the U.S. federal government and its agencies, which purchases may be only partially funded, and are subject to potential termination and reductions and delays in government spending. Sales of the Company’s security and inspection systems, in some cases as an indirect subcontractor or team member with prime contractors and in some cases directly, to the U.S. Government and its agencies accounted for approximately 12%, 12% and 19% of the Company’s total product and engineering revenues in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company’s security and inspection systems are included in many different domestic programs. Over the lifetime of a program, the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts could impact the Company’s products’ requirements. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds only on a single fiscal year basis. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations and prime contracts receive such funding. The reduction or delay in funding or termination of a government program in which the Company is involved could result in a loss of or delay in receiving anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and contracts or orders received. The U.S. Government could reduce or terminate a prime contract under which the Company is a subcontractor or team member irrespective of the quality of our products or services. The termination of a program or delays in the reduction in or failure to commit additional funds to a program in which the Company is involved could negatively impact its revenues and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 