Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements, which, to the extent that they are not a recitation of historical facts, constitute “forward-looking statements” pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements, including without limitation, statements about product development, market and industry trends, strategic initiatives, regulatory approvals, sales, profits, expenses, price trends, research and development expenses and trends, and capital expenditures, involve risk and uncertainties, and actual events and results may differ significantly from those indicated in any forward-looking statement as a result of a number of important factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. In some cases these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “expect,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” or the negative of these words or comparable words. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. Any of these could have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Because a significant portion of our revenue currently comes from a small number of customers, any decrease in revenue from these customers could harm our operating results. We depend on a small number of customers for a large portion of our business, and changes in our customers’ orders could have a significant impact on our operating results. If a major customer significantly reduces the amount of business it does with us, there would be an adverse impact on our operating results. We had three customers, as set forth in the table below, who accounted for 10% or more of our net product and engineering revenue during fiscal years 2010, 2009, or 2008. Year Ended July 31, 2010 2009 2008 Philips 15 % 15 % * Toshiba 12 % 14 % 17 % L-3 * 11 % 11 % Note (*): Total net product and engineering revenue was less than 10% in this fiscal year. Our ten largest customers as a group accounted for 66%, 67%, and 67% of our net product and engineering revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Philips accounted for 16% and 12%, respectively, of net accounts receivable at July 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and L-3 accounted for 13% of net accounts receivable at July 31, 2010 and 2009. Although we seek to broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of major customers. Because it often takes significant time to replace lost business, it is likely that our operating results would be adversely affected if one or more of our major customers were to cancel, delay, or reduce significant orders in the future. Our customer agreements typically permit the customer to discontinue future purchases after timely notice. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with the products we sell and the services we provide to our major customers. Although our major customers are large corporations, if one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise be unable to pay for our products and services, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Competition from existing or new companies in the medical and security imaging technology industry could cause us to experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, and the loss of market share. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We are subject to competition based on product design, performance, pricing, quality, and service offerings, and we believe our innovative engineering and product reliability have been important factors in our historical growth. While we try to maintain competitive pricing on those products which are directly comparable to products manufactured by others, in many instances our products conform to more exacting specifications and may carry a higher price than analogous products manufactured by others. Our competitors include divisions of larger, more diversified organizations as well as specialized companies. Some of them have greater resources and larger staffs than we have. Many of our existing and potential OEM customers have the ability to design and manufacture internally the products that we manufacture for them. We face competition from the research and product development groups and manufacturing operations of our existing and potential customers, who continually compare the benefits of internal research, product development, and manufacturing with the costs and benefits of outsourcing. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole-source for certain components, and our production could be substantially curtailed if these suppliers were not able to meet our demands and alternative sources were not available. We order raw materials and components to complete our customers’ orders, and some of these raw materials and components are ordered from sole-source suppliers. Although we work with our customers and suppliers to minimize the impact of shortages in raw materials and components, we sometimes experience short-term adverse effects due to price fluctuations and delayed shipments. In the past, there have been industry-wide shortages of electronics components. If a significant shortage of raw materials or components were to occur, we might have to delay shipments or pay premium pricing, which could adversely affect our operating results. In some cases, supply shortages of particular components could substantially curtail our production of products using these components. We are not always able to pass on price increases to our customers. Accordingly, some raw material and component price increases could adversely affect our operating results. We also depend on a small number of suppliers to provide many of the other raw materials and components that we use in our business. Some of these suppliers are affiliated with customers or competitors, and others are small companies. If we were unable to continue to purchase these raw materials and components from our suppliers, our operating results could be adversely affected. Because many of our costs are fixed, our margins depend on the volume of output at our facilities, and a reduction in volume could adversely affect our margins. We rely on successful performance by and relationships with subcontractors. This reliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have formed arrangements with subcontractors for various services and components. We have formed these arrangements because it is commercially more efficient to outsource these services and purchase these components than it would be for us to perform or manufacture these services and components, which in some cases require, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment that is not practical or cost-effective for us to develop or acquire. As a result, if one of our subcontractors were to experience quality problems, capacity constraints, decreased yields, or delivery delays, or were to raise prices significantly, we could face product liability claims, product shortages, decreased revenues or lost customers, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we were to be left with excess inventory, our operating results could be adversely affected. Because of long lead times and specialized product designs, in certain cases we purchase components and manufacture products in anticipation of customer orders based on customer forecasts. For a variety of reasons, 9 Table of Contents such as decreased end-user demand for our products, our customers might not purchase all the products that we have manufactured or for which we have purchased components. In either event, we would attempt to recoup material and manufacturing costs by means such as returning components to our vendors, disposing of excess inventory through other channels, or requiring our OEM customers to purchase or otherwise compensate us for such excess inventory. Some of our significant customer agreements do not give us the ability to require our OEM customers to do this. To the extent that we were unsuccessful in recouping our material and manufacturing costs, our net sales and operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, carrying excess inventory would reduce the working capital we have available to continue to operate and grow our business. Uncertainties and adverse trends affecting our industry or any of our major customers could adversely affect our operating results. Our business operates primarily within two major markets within the electronics industry, Medical Technology and Security Technology. These markets are subject to rapid technological change and pricing and margin pressure and have historically been cyclical and subject to significant downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices, and production over-capacity. In addition, changes in government policy relating to reimbursement for the purchase or use of medical and security-related capital equipment could also affect our sales. Our customers’ markets are also subject to economic cycles and are likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. The economic conditions affecting our industry in general, or any of our major customers in particular, might adversely affect our operating results. Our other businesses are subject to the same or greater technological and cyclical pressures. In Security Technology, our OEM customers’ purchasing dynamics are generally affected by the level of government funding, the expansion of airport terminals and the fluctuations in airline passenger volume. Our customers’ delay in obtaining or inability to obtain any necessary United States or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for their products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products are used by a number of our customers in the production of medical devices that are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. A delay in obtaining or inability to obtain any necessary United States or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for products could have a material adverse effect on our business. The process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. There is a further risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, might be withdrawn or modified. Medical devices cannot be marketed in the United States without clearance from the FDA. Medical devices sold in the United States must also be manufactured in compliance with FDA rules and regulations, which regulate the design, manufacturing, packing, storage, and installation of medical devices. Moreover, medical devices are required to comply with FDA regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. States may also regulate the manufacturing, sale, and use of medical devices. Medical devices are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. Our business strategy involves the pursuit of acquisitions or business combinations, which, if consummated, could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, or divert management attention. As part of our business strategy, we might seek attractive acquisitions and other business combinations. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition, and potential unknown or underestimated liabilities associated with acquired businesses. If we do not successfully complete acquisitions that we pursue in the future, we could incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without generating any benefit to us. In addition, substantial portions of our available cash might be utilized as consideration for these acquisitions. 10 Table of Contents Our annual and quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, which could affect the market price of our common stock. Our annual and quarterly results could vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. These factors include: • variations in the timing and volume of customer orders relative to our manufacturing capacity; • introduction and market acceptance of our customers’ new products; • changes in demand for our customers’ existing products; • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • effectiveness in managing our manufacturing processes; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally or in our customers’ markets; • changes in the cost or availability of components or skilled labor; • changes in our effective tax rate; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • foreign currency exposure; and • investor and analyst perceptions of events affecting us, our competitors, and/or our industry. A delay in anticipated sales could result in the deferral of the associated revenue beyond the end of a particular quarter, which would have a significant effect on our operating results for that quarter. In addition, most of our operating expenses do not vary directly with net revenue and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter was below our expectations, we could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Hence, the revenue shortfall could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. Loss of any of our key personnel could hurt our business because of their industry experience and their technological expertise. We operate in a highly competitive industry and depend on the services of our key senior executives and our technological experts. The loss of the services of one or several of our key employees or an inability to attract, train, and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering and operations personnel, could result in the loss of customers or otherwise inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. If we are unable to maintain our expertise in research and product development, manufacturing processes, and marketing new products, we might not be able to compete successfully. We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to provide research and product development, provide manufacturing services that meet the changing needs of our customers, and market new products. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, we continually evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new product designs and manufacturing processes. We may not be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner, and new and improved products, if developed, may not achieve market acceptance. Major terrorist attacks and threats have increased financial expectations that may not materialize. Major terrorist attacks and threats have created increased interest in our security and inspection systems. However, the level of demand for our products is not predictable and may vary over time. We do not know what solutions will continue to be adopted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security as a result of terrorism and 11 Table of Contents whether our products will continue to be a part of the solutions. Additionally, should our products be considered as a part of the future security solution, it is unclear what the level of purchases may be and how quickly funding to purchase our products may be made available. These factors could adversely impact us and create unpredictability in our revenues and operating results. We are exposed to risks associated with international operations and markets. We market, manufacture, and sell products in international markets, and have established offices and subsidiaries in Europe, Canada, and China. Net revenue outside the United States accounted for 23%, 22%, and 21% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. From our U.S. operations, we also ship directly to customers in Europe and Asia, for which shipments accounted for 42%, 40%, and 29% of our total net revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. There are inherent risks in transacting business internationally, including: • changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements; • export and import restrictions; • export controls relating to technology; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • intellectual property laws that offer less protection for our proprietary rights; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; • political instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • expatriation controls; and • potential adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international activities and, consequently, on our business and results of operations. If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, we could incur significant expenses and could be prevented from selling specific products. We may become subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the future. We cannot ensure that, if made, these claims will not be successful. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management from other business. Any judgment against us could require substantial payment in damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain products. If operators of our security and inspection systems fail to detect weapons, explosives or other devices that are used to commit a terrorist act, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing, sale and service of security inspection systems. Our customers use our security and inspection systems to help them detect items that could be used in performing terrorist acts or other crimes. The training, reliability and competence of the customer’s operators are crucial to the detection of suspicious items. In addition, our security and inspection systems are not designed to work under all circumstances. We test the reliability of our security and inspection systems during both their development and manufacturing phases. We 12 Table of Contents also perform such tests if we are requested to perform installation, warranty or post-warranty servicing. However, our security inspection systems are advanced mechanical and electronic devices and therefore can malfunction. As a result of the September 11, 2001, and 1993 World Trade Center terrorist attacks, and the potential for future attacks, product liability insurance coverage for such threats is extremely difficult and costly to obtain. It is possible, subject to the applicability of the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (the “SAFETY Act”), that if we were found liable following a major act of terrorism, our insurance might not fully cover the claims for damages. The SAFETY Act is a Federal law enacted to provide certain legal liability protections for providers of certain anti-terrorism technologies. If applicable to claims against Analogic, the SAFETY Act could mitigate some of this risk. Our security and inspections systems business depends in part on purchases of products and services by the U.S. Federal Government and its agencies, which purchases may be only partially funded, and are subject to potential termination and reductions and delays in government spending. Sales of our security and inspection systems, in some cases as an indirect subcontractor or team member with prime contractors and in other cases directly to the U.S. Government and its agencies, accounted for approximately 12% of our total net revenue in each of fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Our security and inspection systems are included in many different domestic programs. Over the lifetime of a program, the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts could impact our products’ requirements. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds only on a single fiscal year basis. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations and prime contracts receive such funding. The reduction or delay in funding or termination of a government program in which we are involved could result in a loss of or delay in receiving anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and contracts or orders received. The U.S. Government could reduce or terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor or team member irrespective of the quality of our products or services. The termination of a program or delays in the reduction in or failure to commit additional funds to a program in which we are involved could negatively impact our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including increased levels of managed care, cuts in Medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. In addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control healthcare costs through legislation and regulation. In the United States, the Federal government recently passed comprehensive healthcare reform legislation. Many of the details regarding the implementation of this legislation are yet to be determined and we currently cannot predict whether or to what extent such implementation or adoption of reforms may affect our business. We anticipate that the current administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. The implementation of health care reform and medical cost containment measures in the United States and in foreign countries in which we operate could: • limit the use of our products and adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted ; • reduce reimbursement available to our customers for using our products; and 13 Table of Contents • decrease the price we might establish for our products and products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. In addition, because we operate in a highly regulated industry, other governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition, including: • changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; • new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and • changes in the tax laws relating to our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 