Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements, which, to the extent that they are not a recitation of historical facts, constitute “forward-looking statements” pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “expect,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” or the negative of these words or comparable words. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements, including without limitation, statements about product development, market and industry trends, strategic initiatives, regulatory approvals, sales, profits, expenses, price trends, R&D expenses and trends, and capital expenditures, involve risk and uncertainties, and actual events and results may differ significantly from those indicated in any forward-looking statement as a result of a number of important factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. Any of these could have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Because a significant portion of our revenue currently comes from a small number of customers, any decrease in revenue from these customers could harm our operating results. We depend on a small number of customers for a large portion of our business, and changes in our customers’ orders could have a significant impact on our operating results. If a major customer significantly reduces the amount of business it does with us, there would be an adverse impact on our operating results. We had three customers, as set forth in the table below, who accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue during fiscal years 2012, 2011, or 2010. Year Ended July 31, 2012 2011 2010 Philips 14 % 13 % 15 % L-3 12 % * * Toshiba 10 % 11 % 12 % Note (*): Total net revenue was less than 10% in this fiscal year. 11 Table of Contents Our ten largest customers as a group accounted for 68%, 64%, and 66% of our net product and engineering revenue for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Philips accounted for 13% and 17% of net accounts receivable at July 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. GE accounted for 10% and 12% of net accounts receivable at July 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. At July 31, 2012, L-3 accounted for 18% of net accounts receivable. Although we seek to broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of major customers. Because it often takes significant time to replace lost business, it is likely that our operating results would be adversely affected if one or more of our major customers were to cancel, delay, or reduce significant orders in the future. Our customer agreements typically permit the customer to discontinue future purchases after timely notice. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with the products we sell and the services we provide to our major customers. Although our major customers are large corporations, if one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise be unable to pay for our products and services, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Competition from existing or new companies in the medical and security imaging technology industries could cause us to experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, and the loss of market share. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We are subject to competition based on product design, performance, pricing, quality, and service offerings, and we believe our innovative engineering and product reliability have been important factors in our historical growth. While we try to maintain competitive pricing on those products which are directly comparable to products manufactured by others, in many instances our products conform to more exacting specifications and may carry a higher price than analogous products manufactured by others. Our competitors include divisions of larger, more diversified organizations as well as specialized companies. Some of them have greater resources and larger staffs than we have. A number of our existing and potential OEM customers have the ability to design and manufacture internally the products that we manufacture for them. We face competition from the research and product development groups and manufacturing operations of our existing and potential customers, who continually compare the benefits of internal research, product development, and manufacturing with the costs and benefits of outsourcing. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole-source for certain components, and our production could be substantially curtailed if these suppliers were not able to meet our demands and alternative sources were not available. We order raw materials and components to complete our customers’ orders, and some of these raw materials and components are ordered from sole-source suppliers. Although we work with our customers and suppliers to minimize the impact of shortages in raw materials and components, we sometimes experience short-term adverse effects due to price fluctuations and delayed shipments. In the past, there have been industry-wide shortages of electronics components. If a significant shortage of raw materials or components were to occur, we might have to delay shipments or pay premium pricing, which could adversely affect our operating results. In some cases, supply shortages of particular components could substantially curtail our production of products using these components. We are not always able to pass on price increases to our customers. Accordingly, some raw material and component price increases could adversely affect our operating results. We also depend on a small number of suppliers to provide many of the other raw materials and components that we use in our business. Some of these suppliers are affiliated with customers or competitors, and others are small companies. If we were unable to continue to purchase these raw materials and components from our suppliers, our operating results could be adversely affected. Because many of our costs are fixed, our margins depend on the volume of output at our facilities, and a reduction in volume could adversely affect our margins. 12 Table of Contents We rely on successful performance by and relationships with suppliers. This reliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have formed arrangements with suppliers for various services and components. We have formed these arrangements because it is commercially more efficient to outsource these services and purchase these components than it would be for us to perform these services or manufacture these components, which in some cases require, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment that is not practical or cost-effective for us to develop or acquire. As a result, if one of our suppliers were to experience quality problems, capacity constraints, decreased yields, or delivery delays, or were to raise prices significantly, we could face product liability claims, product shortages, decreased revenues or lost customers, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we were to be left with excess inventory, our operating results could be adversely affected. Because of long lead times and specialized product designs, in certain cases we purchase components and manufacture products in anticipation of customer orders based on customer forecasts. For a variety of reasons, such as decreased end-user demand for our products, inadequate or inaccurate forecasts, or other issues that might impact production planning, our customers might not purchase all the products that we have manufactured or for which we have purchased components. In any such event, we would attempt to recoup material and manufacturing costs by means such as returning components to our vendors, disposing of excess inventory through other channels, or requiring our OEM customers to purchase or otherwise compensate us for such excess inventory. Some of our significant customer agreements do not give us the ability to require our OEM customers to do this. To the extent that we were unsuccessful in recouping our material and manufacturing costs, our gross margin and operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, carrying excess inventory would reduce the working capital we have available to continue to operate and grow our business. Uncertainties and adverse trends affecting our industry or any of our major customers could adversely affect our operating results. Our business operates primarily within three business segments: Medical Imaging, Ultrasound, and Security Technology. The medical and security technology equipment markets in which our segments operate are subject to changes in technology, pricing, and profit margins and have been historically subject to cyclical downturns characterized by diminished product demand, rapid declines in average selling prices, and production over-capacity. In addition, changes in government policy relating to the purchase or use of medical and security-related capital equipment could also affect our sales. Our customers’ markets are also subject to economic cycles and are likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. The economic conditions affecting our industry in general, or any of our major customers in particular, might adversely affect our operating results. In Security Technology, our OEM customers’ purchasing dynamics are generally affected by the level of government funding, the expansion of airport terminals and the fluctuations in airline passenger volume. Our customers’ or our delay in obtaining or inability to obtain any necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products are finished medical devices or are components used by our customers in the production of finished medical devices that are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. A delay in obtaining or inability to obtain any necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for products could have a material adverse effect on our business. The process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. There is a further risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, might be withdrawn or modified. Medical devices cannot be marketed in the U.S. without clearance from the FDA. Medical devices sold in the U.S. must also be manufactured in compliance with FDA rules and regulations, which regulate the design, manufacturing, packing, storage, and installation of medical devices. Moreover, medical devices are required to comply with FDA regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. States may also regulate the 13 Table of Contents manufacturing, sale, and use of medical devices. Medical devices are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. Our products must also meet the requirements of these governments and agencies for approval and distribution. As with the U.S., foreign governments or agencies can withdraw or modify their approvals. Our business strategy includes the pursuit of acquisitions or business combinations, which, if consummated, could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, or divert management attention. As part of our business strategy, we may seek attractive acquisitions and other business combinations. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition, and potential unknown or underestimated liabilities associated with acquired businesses. If we do not successfully complete acquisitions that we pursue in the future, we could incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without generating any benefit to us. In addition, substantial portions of our available cash might be utilized as consideration for these acquisitions. Our annual and quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, which could affect the market price of our common stock. Our annual and quarterly results could vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. These factors include: • variations in the timing and volume of customer orders; • introduction and market acceptance of our customers' or our own new products; • changes in demand for our customers' or our own existing products; • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • effectiveness in managing our manufacturing processes; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally in our or our customers' markets; • changes in the cost or availability of components or skilled labor; • changes in our effective tax rate; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • foreign currency and commodity price exposures; • investor and analyst perceptions of events affecting us, our competitors, and/or our industry; and • changes in laws affecting the health care industry. A delay in anticipated sales beyond the end of a particular quarter could have a significant effect on our operating results for that quarter. In addition, most of our operating expenses do not vary directly with net revenue and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter was below our expectations, we could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Hence, the revenue shortfall could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. Loss of any of our key personnel could hurt our business because of their industry experience and their technological expertise. We operate in a highly competitive industry and depend on the services of our key senior executives and our technological experts. The loss of the services of one or several of our key employees or an inability to attract, 14 Table of Contents train, and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering and operations personnel, could result in the loss of customers or otherwise inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. If we fail effectively to manage our growth or, alternatively, our spending during economic downturns, our business could be disrupted, which could harm our operating results. Our ability to offer our products and implement our business plan in evolving markets successfully requires an effective planning and management process. We must effectively manage our spending and operations to ensure our competitive position during economic downturns, and must preserve our future opportunities when the economy improves. A failure to manage our spending and operations effectively could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. A growth in sales, combined with the challenges of managing geographically dispersed operations, can place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, and growth in future operations could continue to place such a strain. The failure to manage our growth effectively could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. If we are unable to maintain our expertise in research and product development, manufacturing processes, and marketing new products, we might not be able to compete successfully. We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to provide research and product development, provide manufacturing services that meet the changing needs of our customers, and market new products. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, we continually evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new product designs and manufacturing processes. We may not be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner. New and improved products, if developed, may not achieve price and profitability targets or market acceptance. Commercialization of new products may prove challenging, and we may be required to invest more time and money than expected to introduce these products into the market successfully. Once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete. Major terrorist attacks and threats have increased financial expectations that may not materialize. Major terrorist attacks and threats have created increased interest in our security and inspection systems. However, the level of demand for our products is not predictable and may vary over time. We do not know what solutions will continue to be adopted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security as a result of terrorism and whether our products will continue to be a part of the solutions. Additionally, should our products be considered as a part of future security solutions, it is unclear what the level of purchases may be and how quickly funding to purchase our products may be made available. These factors could adversely impact us and create unpredictability in our revenues and operating results. We are exposed to risks associated with international operations and markets. We source and manufacture certain components and systems outside the U.S, we market and sell products in international markets, and have established offices and subsidiaries in Europe, Canada, and Asia. Our foreign revenue accounted for 61%, 66%, and 66% of our total net revenue for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. There are inherent risks in transacting business internationally, including: • changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements; • export and import restrictions; • export controls relating to technology; • tariffs and other trade barriers; 15 Table of Contents • intellectual property laws that offer less protection for our proprietary rights; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • problems in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • political instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in managing employee relations • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across our global operations, including inventory management and financial consolidation; • expatriation controls; and • potential adverse tax consequences. There is significant uncertainty about the stability of global credit and financial markets. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. High unemployment rates, weakness in commercial and residential real estate markets and the tightening of credit by financial institutions may lead businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products. The continuing debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of our European customers. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. We are unable to predict the impact of this instability and if economic conditions deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and antitrust, anti-competition and similar laws in other jurisdictions and our failure to do so could lead to substantial liability. We could also face investigations by one or more government agencies that could be costly to respond to and divert the attention of key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome from any such investigation could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any one or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international activities and, consequently, on our business and results of operations. There are risks associated with our operations in China. We are currently in the process of transitioning certain of our manufacturing operations to a new 145,000 square foot facility in Shanghai, China. This effort is part of a process to reduce costs and streamline our manufacturing operations. There are certain administrative, legal, and governmental risks to operating in China that could result in increased operating expenses or could hamper us in the development of our operations in China. The risks from operating in China that could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to deliver our products and grow our business include, without limitation: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, particularly in attracting and retaining personnel qualified to design, sell, test and support our products; • difficulties in managing employee relations; • increases in the value of the Chinese Yuan, or CNY; • difficulties in coordinating our operations in China with those in the U.S. and Europe; 16 Table of Contents • difficulties in enforcing contracts in China; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • diversion of management attention; • imposition of burdensome governmental regulations; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across our global operations, including inventory management and financial consolidation; • regional political and economic instability, which could have an adverse impact on foreign exchange rates in Asia and impair our ability to conduct our business in China; and • inadequacy of the local infrastructure to support our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist acts and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business. Although we perform manufacturing in multiple locations, we generally do not have redundant manufacturing capabilities in place for any particular product or component. As a result, we depend on our current facilities for the continued operation of our business. A natural disaster, pandemic, terrorist act, act of war, or other natural or manmade disaster affecting any of our facilities could significantly disrupt our operations, or delay or prevent product manufacturing and shipment for the time required to repair, rebuild, or replace our manufacturing facilities. This delay could be lengthy and we could incur significant expenses to repair or replace the facilities. Any similar natural or manmade disaster that affects a key supplier or customer could lead to a similar disruption in our business. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate. Existing trade secret, patent, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. Our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. In addition, others may develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or competitors may offer similar competing products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. The laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results. We may also become subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the future. We cannot ensure that, if made, these claims will not be successful. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management from other business. Any judgment against us could require substantial payment in damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain products. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. We rely extensively on information technology systems to interact with our employees and our customers and to run our business effectively. These interactions include ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal and tax requirements, and other processes 17 Table of Contents necessary to manage our business. Our systems could become damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, including issues caused by ongoing projects to improve our information technology systems and the delivery of services, failures of third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, and security breaches. Any failure or malfunctioning of our information technology systems, errors or misuse by system users, or inadequacy of the systems in addressing the needs of our operations, could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such failure, errors, misuse or inadequacy could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process, report and evaluate key operations metrics and key components of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any such disruptions would likely divert our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our information technology systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation activities. We may be subject to information security breaches caused by illegal hacking, computer viruses, or acts of vandalism or terrorism. Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers may not detect or prevent such breaches. Any such compromise to our information security could result in an interruption in our operations, the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, the unauthorized release of customer, vendor, or employee data, the violation of privacy or other laws, and the exposure to litigation, any of which could harm our business and operating results. If our security and inspection systems fail to detect weapons, explosives or other devices that are used to commit a terrorist act, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing, sale and service of security inspection systems. Our customers use our security and inspection systems to help them detect items that could be used in performing terrorist acts or other crimes. The training, reliability and competence of the customers’ operators are crucial to the detection of suspicious items. In addition, our security and inspection systems are not designed to work under all circumstances. We test the reliability of our security and inspection systems during both their development and manufacturing phases. We also perform such tests if we are requested to perform installation, warranty or post-warranty servicing. However, our security inspection systems are advanced mechanical and electronic devices and therefore can malfunction. As a result of the September 11, 2001, and 1993 World Trade Center terrorist attacks, and the potential for future attacks, product liability insurance coverage for such threats is extremely difficult and costly to obtain. It is possible, subject to the applicability of the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002, or the SAFETY Act, that if we were found liable following a major act of terrorism, our insurance might not fully cover the claims for damages. The SAFETY Act is a Federal law in the U.S. enacted to provide certain legal liability protections for providers of certain anti-terrorism technologies. If applicable to claims against Analogic, the SAFETY Act could mitigate some of this risk. Our Security Technology segment depends in part on purchases of products and services by the U.S. Federal Government and its agencies, which purchases may be only partially funded, and are subject to potential termination and reductions and delays in government spending. Sales of our security and inspection systems as an indirect subcontractor or team member with prime contractors and in other cases directly to the U.S. Government and its agencies, accounted for approximately 12%, 7% and 10% of our total net revenue for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Our security and inspection systems are included in many different domestic programs. Over the lifetime of a program, the award 18 Table of Contents of many different individual contracts and subcontracts could impact our products’ requirements. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds only on a single fiscal year basis. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations and prime contracts receive such funding. The reduction or delay in funding or termination of a government program in which we are involved could result in a loss of or delay in receiving anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and contracts or orders received. The U.S. Government could reduce or terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor or team member irrespective of the quality of our products or services. The termination of a program or reduction in, or failure to commit additional funds to, a program in which we are involved could negatively impact our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including increased levels of managed care, cuts in Medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. In addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control healthcare costs through legislation and regulation. In the U.S. in March 2010, President Obama signed into law health care reform legislation in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,(“PPACA”). One of the components of the PPACA is a 2.3% excise tax on the sales of most medical devices, starting in 2013. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the total cost to the medical device industry will be approximately $20 billion over ten years. This tax may put increased pressure on medical device manufacturers and purchasers, and may lead our customers to reduce their orders for products we produce or to request that we reduce the prices we charge for our products in order to offset the tax. Other elements of the PPACA, such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms, including shared savings pilots, and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals under a portion of PPACA known as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed, marketed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many significant parts of the law will be phased in over the next decade and require further guidance and clarification in the form of regulations. As a result, many of the impacts of the law will not be known until those regulations are enacted, which we expect to occur over the next several years. We anticipate that the current administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. The implementation of health care reform and medical cost containment measures in the U.S. and in foreign countries in which we operate could: • limit the use of our products and adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted; • reduce reimbursement available to our customers for using our products; and • decrease the price we might establish for our products and products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. In addition, because we operate in a highly regulated industry, other governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition, including: • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to 19 Table of Contents market, which could increase our costs of doing business, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; • new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and • changes in the tax laws relating to our operations. We are investigating whether certain transactions between our Danish subsidiary, B-K Medical, and certain of its distributors may have violated applicable law, including Danish law and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and remedial actions we may take as a result of our investigation could adversely affect our sales to the markets covered by distributors. In fiscal year 2011, we identified certain transactions involving our Danish subsidiary B-K Medical, and certain of its foreign distributors, with respect to which we have raised questions concerning compliance with law, including Danish law and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and our business policies. These have included transactions in which the distributors paid B-K Medical amounts in excess of amounts owed and B-K Medical transferred the excess amounts, at the direction of the distributors, to third parties identified by the distributors. We have been unable to ascertain with certainty the ultimate beneficiaries or the purpose of these transfers. We have voluntarily disclosed this matter to the Danish Government, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC. We are unable to estimate the potential penalties and/or sanctions, if any, that might be assessed in connection with this matter. We have concluded that the transactions identified to date have been properly accounted for in our reported financial statements in all material respects. We have terminated the employment of B-K Medical employees that were involved in the transactions. We have wound down, or are in the process of winding down, our relationship with the B-K Medical distributors that were involved in the transactions. Replacing these employees and distributors could have an adverse impact on B-K Medical’s distributor sales until their replacements are in place and productive. Revenue from sales to the B-K Medical distributors with whom we have decided to wind down B-K Medical’s relationship, represented less than 1% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2011 and less than 1.3% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2012. During fiscal year 2012, we incurred employee termination costs of approximately $400 and inquiry-related costs of approximately $1,288 in connection with this matter. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense. We are subject to various environmental regulations. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with environmental regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances, or REACH, the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or RoHS, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE, enacted in the European Union which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. This and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan, China, Korea and various states of the U.S. may require us to redesign our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. These redesigns or alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or have other similar effects. We believe we comply with all such legislation where our products are sold and we will continue to monitor these laws and the regulations being adopted under them to determine our responsibilities. In addition, we are monitoring legislation relating to the reduction of carbon emissions from industrial operations to determine whether we may be required to incur any material, additional material costs, or expenses associated with our operations. Our failure to comply with any of the foregoing regulatory requirements could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in the U.S. and foreign countries. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 