Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic, rapidly changing and challenging environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, profitability or prospects. While these are not the only risks and uncertainties we face, management believes that the more significant risks and uncertainties are as follows: We have experienced changes in our strategic direction. During the past three years we have not met our annual strategic plan objectives. We have also experienced ongoing operating losses and significant turnover in senior management personnel. The turnover in our senior management has been accompanied by changes in our strategic vision and turnover in sales and recruiting staff. Our current strategic plan includes the attainment of several objectives, including: •Build a platform for growth; •Improve gross margin rates; and •Generate profitability in fiscal 2011. If we are unable to focus in a consistent manner on our current strategic plan, the results of our operations and our financial condition could be adversely affected. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract key personnel could weaken our ability to deliver quality services and could adversely affect our business. We are substantially dependent on certain key employees, including the services of our executive management team, to direct efforts related to execution of our strategic plan. We are also dependent on certain sales and recruiting personnel to maintain critical existing customer and consultant relationships and attract new business. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could have an 6 adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to execute our strategic plan, maintain existing customer relationships, recruit qualified consultants or attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel to perform these services, our business, the results of our operations and our financial condition could be adversely affected. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract qualified IT professionals who possess the skills, competencies and experience necessary to meet the requirements of our clients. We must continually attract and retain qualified IT professionals who meet the needs of changing customer requirements and our growth could be limited by our ability to do so. Competition for qualified personnel is strong and IT professional turnover rates can be high. If we are unable to hire or retain the talent required by our clients in a timely, cost-effective manner, negotiate mutually beneficial pay rates and benefit packages or have our new professionals timely achieve acceptable levels of productivity, it will affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Intense competition within the IT staffing industry may result in a loss of market share or lower bill rates, both of which could adversely affect our business. The market for our services is extremely competitive and fragmented, with limited barriers to entry. Intense price competition in the area of IT staffing, continued pressure on bill rates, and clients' continued requests for discounts, rebates and price concessions involving lower cost models for IT staffing services, are likely to continue to exert downward pressure on our operating results and could adversely affect our operating results. Management expects that our clients will continue, for the foreseeable future, to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services through e-procurement systems, extremely competitive bidding processes, the granting of various types of discounts, engagement of vendor management organizations and the use of offshore resources, all of which tend to lower our gross margins. There has been a significant increase in the number of clients consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or with a small number of providers. The trend to consolidate purchases has in some cases made it more difficult for us to obtain or retain clients. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective clients may decide to provide similar services internally. Our ability to respond to client requests for lower pricing or to provide other low-cost services will have a direct effect on our performance. If we are unable to maintain or increase (a) the number of hours billed by our IT professionals, (b) their current billing and/or utilization rates or (c) the gross margins we realize from their work, our financial results will be negatively affected. Our gross margins, and therefore our profitability, are largely a function of the rates we charge for our services and the utilization rate, or chargeability, of our IT professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our IT professionals, we will not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. Additionally, stiff competition, especially in IT staffing, may also require us to accept less favorable contractual terms, especially in the area of limitations on liability (with respect to both direct and consequential damages) and indemnification. We are also experiencing pressure from some clients who desire to utilize companies with larger market capitalization than ours for their IT staffing needs. Further, we do not have an "offshore" outsourcing or development center and do not have any strategic alliances with a partner to provide offshore services. Additionally, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have and as a result, may be able to adjust to changing market conditions and respond to client demands more effectively. They may also have greater resources to devote to the development of new technologies, products and services. It is possible that new competitors, alliances among competitors or alliances between competitors and third parties may emerge and acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse 7 effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect highly competitive conditions in the market for IT staffing services to continue for the foreseeable future. Our client contracts are typically short term and subject to cancellation without penalty. We provide services to our clients under contracts that can be generally cancelled without penalty and upon short notice. These cancellations could result from factors that are beyond our control and are unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, but could be related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the economy in general. When contracts are cancelled, we lose the anticipated future revenue, gross margin and we may be unable to eliminate our associated cost or reassign our IT professionals in a timely manner. The cancellation or reduction in scope of an engagement could, therefore, reduce the utilization rate of our IT professionals, which would have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to liability to our clients under certain circumstances. If we do not meet our contractual obligations to a client, we may be subject to legal liability to our client. Our contracts typically include provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims arising from the services we provide; however, these provisions may not protect us, or may not be enforceable under some circumstances or under the laws of some jurisdictions. If we cannot or do not fulfill our obligations or have adequate contract protection, we could face legal liability. Although we maintain professional liability insurance, the policy limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. In addition, if we were to fail to deliver services properly, we may not be able to collect any related accounts receivable or could even be required to refund amounts paid by the client. The protection of client, employee and company data is critical to our business. Our clients have an expectation that we will adequately protect their confidential information, and we are subject to various laws and regulations which require us to maintain the confidentiality of client and employee information. If any of our employees negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan and other charter provisions that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of the Company or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. We have adopted a Rights Agreement, commonly known as a "poison pill," under which each stockholder of the Company holds one share purchase right, which we refer to as a Right, for each share of Company common stock held. The Rights become exercisable upon the occurrence of certain events and may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult and expensive. In addition, our bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including a provision requiring shareowners intending to make a director nomination or bring other business at a shareowner meeting to have provided the Company advance written notice of such nominations or business, generally not less than 120 days before the shareowner meeting. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about: (i) our strategic plans, the objectives of those strategic plans and 8 our ability to successfully implement our strategic plans, including our goal of profitability during fiscal 2011, (ii) our expectations with respect to the demand for our services and continuing pressure from clients to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services, (iii) our expectations with respect to competition in our industry and our ability to compete, and (iv) our expectations with respect to our financial results and operating performance. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, should, project, forecast, intend, plan, believe, will and other words and terms of similar meaning or import, or variations thereof, and in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause our estimates and assumptions as to future performance, and our actual results to differ materially, are: (i) our inability, in whole or in part, to implement or execute our strategic plans, (ii) our inability to successfully recruit and hire qualified technical personnel, (iii) our inability to successfully compete on a local and national basis with other companies in our industry or with new competitors who face limited barriers to entry in the markets we serve, (iv) our inability to maintain key client relationships or to attract new clients, (v) our inability to attract, retain or motivate key personnel, (vi) our inability to continue to reduce or leverage our operating costs, (vii) the possibility that we may incur liability for the errors or omissions of our consultants providing IT services for clients or the risk that we may be subject to claims for indemnification under contracts with our clients, (viii) our inability to comply with the requirements in our line of credit or to obtain a replacement line of credit on commercially reasonable terms, and (ix) as well as other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting our business generally, including those set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2010 (especially in the Management's Discussion and Analysis and Risk Factors section thereof) and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the date hereof and largely reflect estimates and assumptions made by our management, which may be difficult to predict and beyond our control. We undertake no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K or to update reasons why actual results would differ from those anticipated in any such forward-looking statements, other than as required by law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 