Item 1A. Risk Factors The economic downturn has had a negative effect on our business, causing our revenues to decline and adversely affecting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 made conducting our business more difficult. The economic recession of 2008 and 2009 caused some of our customers to reduce their spending related to technology, which resulted in (and may continue to result in) reductions in our business. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our customers, which in turn, is affected by the local, regional and global economic conditions in which they operate. If our customers reduce, delay or cancel spending on their IT projects or infrastructure, that decision could result in a reduction in sales of our services and products, longer sales cycles and increased competition. There can be no assurances that the recession has, in fact, ended or that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore spending to previous levels. A continuation or worsening of the economic downturn could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, we may not be able to benefit from the strengthening in business activity levels experienced by some of our competitors during the fourth quarter of 2009 and expected during 2010. If so, our revenues, gross margins and earnings per share could continue to be depressed. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our customers. We evaluate the financial condition of our customers, bill the customers, and typically collect amounts due from our clients. We maintain allowances against receivables, but actual losses on customers balances could differ from those estimates. In addition, timely collection of customers balances depends on the business health of our customers. As a result, any continuance or worsening of the economic downturn could result in our clients seeking to extend payment terms, delay payments or to enter into bankruptcy or liquidation, any of which would negatively affect our ability to collect client balances on a timely basis which would negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, we depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our revenues and, generally, do not provide services to our customers under the terms of long-term contracts. Termination or reduction of services as a result of the economic downturn by one or more of our large customers could adversely affect our business. Intense competition within the IT staffing industry may result in a loss of market share or lower bill rates, both of which could adversely affect our business. The market for our services is extremely competitive and fragmented. Intense price competition in the area of IT staffing, continued pressure on billing and customers' continued requests for discounts, rebates and price concessions involving lower cost models for IT staffing services will continue to exert downward pressure on our operating results and could adversely affect our operating results. Management expects that our customers will continue, for the foreseeable future, to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services through e-procurement systems, extremely competitive bidding processes, the granting of various types of discounts, engagement of vendor management organizations and the use of offshore resources, all of which tend to lower our gross margins. Our ability to respond to customer requests for lower pricing or to provide other low-cost solutions in this area of our business will have a direct effect on our performance. If we are unable to maintain or increase (a) the number of hours billed by our consultants, (b) their current billing and/or utilization rates or (c) the gross margins we realize from their work, our financial results will be negatively affected. Additionally, stiff competition, especially in our core IT staffing business, may also require us to accept less favorable contractual terms, especially in the area of limitations on liability (with respect to both direct and consequential damages) and indemnification. We are also experiencing pressure from some customers who desire to utilize companies with larger market capitalization than ours for their IT staffing needs. 7 Table of Contents Additionally, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and as a result, may be able to adjust to changing market conditions and respond to customer demands more effectively. They may also have greater resources to devote to the development of new technologies, products and services. It is possible that new competitors, alliances among competitors or alliances between competitors and third parties may emerge and acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect highly competitive conditions in the market for IT staffing services to continue for the foreseeable future. Our success is directly dependent on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified technical personnel. Increased competition for these individuals may adversely affect our business. Our ability to quickly identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel, especially during an economic recovery, will affect our results of operations and our ability to grow in the future. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and consultant turnover can be high. Further, we may face increases in employment-related costs for our consultants, such as higher health care and unemployment taxes. If we are unable to hire or retain the talent required by our customers in a timely, cost-effective manner and with mutually beneficial pay rates and benefit packages, it will affect our ability to operate our business and stabilize or improve our financial performance. We do not maintain an "offshore" outsourcing center to provide lower-cost IT services to our customers. The use of "offshore" outsourcing and development centers, particularly in India, has become relatively commonplace for domestic providers of IT services. The use of offshore IT service providers has tended to slow growth in domestic IT staff augmentation revenue for companies such as ours. Further, a significant amount of IT staffing and project work has been replaced by offshore resources. At present, we do not have an "offshore" outsourcing or development center and do not have any strategic alliances with a partner to provide offshore alternatives. This may adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. We may be unsuccessful in restoring the company to profitability and increasing shareholder value. Our current strategic plan includes the attainment of several objectives including: •restore profitability; •achieve industry standard gross margins; •increase revenues; •close fiscal 2010 with 1,000 IT staffing professionals; and •build cash to invest in our future strategy; We were not successful in achieving our goal of increasing revenue and achieving profitability during fiscal 2009. The improvements achieved in our gross margins have been attenuated by the lower volumes of business and the effect of the economic downturn. If we are unable to increase our revenues or achieve one or more of the other objectives listed above, we may fail to restore profitability and increase shareholder value. Our ability to manage our working capital and our credit facility is critical to our success. From time to time, our operations may require more cash than is available from operations. In these circumstances, it may be necessary to borrow from credit facilities. Our ability to obtain financing in the future through credit facilities will be affected by several factors including our creditworthiness, our ability to operate in a profitable manner and general market and credit conditions. An inability to 8 Table of Contents obtain additional working capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us or access to our existing credit facility, should it be required, could have an adverse material effect on our business. We believe our working capital and the availability under our existing credit facility will be sufficient for the foreseeable needs of our business. Significant changes in our business or cash outflows from operations could create a need for additional working capital. We may be unable to obtain necessary financing on terms reasonably acceptable to us. Reflecting a concern about the recent stability of the financial markets generally, some lenders and institutional investors have reduced funding to borrowers. A lack of available credit or continued reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. Our ability to maintain and invest in our business requires sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets through short-term borrowings, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our $15.0 million credit line, which expires on September 30, 2012, includes a number of significant financial and operating restrictions. For example, the total amount available for borrowing under the facility fluctuates based on our level of eligible accounts receivable and is subject to reduction at the discretion of the lender. These provisions may limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to changing business, market and economic conditions. In addition, they may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer, if any, restrictions on may otherwise adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with the requirements of our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract key personnel could weaken our ability to deliver quality services and could adversely affect our business. We are substantially dependent on certain key employees and we are dependent on the services of our executive management team to direct efforts related to execution of our strategic plans. We are also dependent on certain personnel to maintain critical existing customer relationships and attract new business. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to execute our strategic plans, maintain existing customer relationships or attract new customers in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel to perform these services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to satisfy the Nasdaq Global Market's continued listing requirements, including a minimum price per share of $1.00, our common stock may be delisted, which would likely impair the liquidity and the value of our common stock On September 15, 2009, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Listing Qualification department indicating that, for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market under Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) (the "Bid Price Rule"). In accordance with the Bid Price Rule, we have 180 calendar days, or until March 15, 2010, to regain compliance. We currently do not meet the initial listing requirements for the transfer of the listing of our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market. As a result, our Board of Directors has approved a one for five reverse stock split intended to allow us to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule, with an effective date of February 26, 2010. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum period of 10 consecutive business days. Based on the recent average closing price of our common stock, we anticipate the reverse stock split will initially result in a market price for our common stock of approximately $2.50. There can be no guarantee that our common stock will continue 9 Table of Contents to trade at or above this price or that the reverse stock split will ultimately prevent us from being delisted. In the event the Company does not regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule by March 15, 2010. Nasdaq will provide us with written notification that our securities are subject to delisting, which we could then appeal to a Nasdaq Listings Qualifications Panel pursuant to applicable Nasdaq rules. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, and we remain unable to transfer the listing of our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in our common stock would likely be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a regulated quotation service. If our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, the liquidity of our common stock may be reduced, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts' and the media's coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. Delisting could also result in a loss of confidence by our suppliers, customers and employees. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about: (i) our expectations and beliefs with respect to the economic recession, the volatility of the capital markets, lending standards in the credit markets, and the recent general downturn in the global economy, as well as our assumptions with respect to the impact these economic conditions will have on our business, (ii) our strategic plans and the objectives of those strategic plans, including our plans to attain profitability during the second half of fiscal year 2010, (iii) our expectations with respect to demand for our services and continuing pressure from customers to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services, (iv) our expectations with respect to competition in our industry and our ability to compete, (v) our beliefs regarding the adequacy of our working capital and our ability to meet the requirements of our credit facility or to obtain a replacement credit facility on commercially reasonable terms, and (vi) our expectations with respect to our financial results and operating performance. These statements could affect our plans, anticipated operating results, and/or financial condition You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "should," "project," "forecast," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," and other words and terms of similar meaning or import, or variations thereof, in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause our estimates and assumptions as to future performance, and our actual results to differ materially, are: (i) our inability, in whole or in part, to implement or execute our strategic plans, (ii) our inability to successfully recruit and hire qualified technical personnel, (iii) our inability to successfully compete on a national basis with other companies in our industry or with new competitors who face limited barriers to entry in the markets we serve, (iv) our inability to maintain key customer relationships or to attract new customers, (v) our inability to attract, retain or motivate key personnel, (vi) our inability to continue to reduce operating costs, (vii) the possibility that we may incur liability for the errors or omissions of our consultants providing IT services for customers or the risk that we may be subject to claims for indemnification under contracts with our customers, (viii) our inability to comply with the covenants in our credit facilities or to obtain a replacement credit facility on commercially reasonable terms, (ix) a continued or worsened downturn in the national or global economy, and (x) our inability to effectively manage accounts receivable; as well as other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting our business generally, including those set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2009, especially in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section, our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the date hereof and largely reflect estimates and assumptions made by our management, which may be difficult to predict and beyond our control. We undertake no 10 Table of Contents obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K or to update reasons why actual results would differ from those anticipated in any such forward-looking statements, other than as required by law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 