1A. Risk Factors Market conditions and intense competition within the IT staffing industry may result in a loss of market share, lower revenues and margins, and could adversely affect our business. The market for our services is extremely competitive. Intense price competition in the area of IT staffing, continued pressure on billing rates, and customers' continued requests for lower cost models for IT staffing services will continue to pressure and, in some cases, adversely impact our operating results. Management expects that clients will continue, for the foreseeable future, to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services through e-procurement systems, extremely competitive bidding processes, the granting of various types of discounts and the use of offshore resources. Our ability to respond to customer requests for lower pricing or to provide other low-cost solutions in this area of our business while maintaining acceptable gross margins will have a direct effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, we are experiencing pressure from some clients who desire to utilize companies with larger market capitalization than ours for their IT staffing needs, requiring us to look for internal and external revenue growth opportunities. We expect competitive conditions in the area of IT staffing services to continue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, and, as a result, they may be able to adjust to changing market conditions and respond to customer demands more effectively than us. They may also have greater resources to devote to the development of new technologies, products and services. It is possible that new competitors, alliances among competitors or alliances between competitors and third parties may emerge and acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We derive a majority of our revenue from our IT staffing services and any material decrease in demand for these services would adversely affect our revenues and operating performance. IT staffing continues to represent a majority of our total revenue and direct revenue. Many companies have transitioned their IT services to low-cost, offshore outsourcing centers, particularly in India, that perform the companies' technology-related work and projects. This trend has contributed to the decline in domestic IT staffing services revenue as well as some on-site solutions-oriented projects. While we saw an increase in demand for our services in 2006, and an increase in our average bill rate, we experienced intense competition on average bill rates and pay rates throughout the year. There can be no assurance as to when, or if, we will experience revenue growth. Our ability to respond to competitive conditions and trends will have a direct impact on our ability to achieve and sustain meaningful revenue growth and profitability. Our success is directly dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified technical personnel. Our ability to quickly identify, hire and retain qualified technical personnel will affect our results of operations and our ability to grow in the future. If we are unable to hire the talent required by our clients in a timely, cost-effective manner and with mutually beneficial pay rates and benefit packages, it will affect our ability to grow the business. 5 Our ability to control costs while still being able to adequately respond to client needs is critical to our continued success. Controlling our operating costs while not impeding our ability to respond to the needs of our clients is a key factor to our success. We have continued to streamline operations by consolidating offices, reducing administrative and management personnel and continuing to review the company structure for more efficient methods of operating our business and delivering our services. We may not be able to continue to reduce costs without affecting our ability to timely deliver service to our clients and therefore may choose to forego particular cost reductions if we believe it would be prudent to do so. Our success is dependent on our ability to market our products and services to our existing client base, to attract and retain new customers, to capitalize on new client relationships and to successfully implement our customer service objectives. We continue to concentrate on IT staffing services in Fortune 500 and small and medium-sized businesses, business solutions for small and medium-sized businesses, and business opportunities with technology and product partners. To serve this client base, we are focusing on the following objectives: (i) implementing a consultant centric/talent community model, which will transform us into a workforce deployment and human capital management organization; (ii) continuing to implement a number of improvements around key business processes that we believe will better align our business with the market's needs and allow us to more effectively drive growth; and (iii) building a focused set of services and solutions around high-demand, emerging technologies. We believe these objectives present opportunities to grow our business and provide the scale we believe necessary to be successful in the staffing business in the long term. We believe the economies of scale that would accompany this growth are important because more clients require vendors to be of a certain size, and because size provides the operating leverage necessary to create competitive margins. Success in meeting the objectives outlined above will depend on, among other things, our ability to compete with other vendors, our ability to obtain qualified technical personnel, our success in obtaining new clients and our ability to implement those objectives. The terms of our standard agreements with our customers allow the customers to terminate or reduce the amount of our services they purchase from us on short notice, and a limited number of customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of one or more significant customers could negatively affect our business. Terms and conditions standard to computer consulting services contracts also present a risk to our business. In general, our customers can cancel or reduce their contracts on short notice. A large portion of our revenue has and will likely continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers. During fiscal 2006, sales to IBM 19% and Lexmark 6% accounted for approximately twenty-five percent (25%) of our revenues. Loss of either of these significant customer relationships or a significant portion thereof, a significant number of other relationships or a major contract could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to manage our working capital is critical to our continued growth and success. We believe our working capital will be sufficient for the foreseeable needs of our business. Significant rapid growth in our business, a major acquisition or a significant lengthening of payment terms with major clients could create a need for additional working capital. An inability to obtain additional working capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us, should it be required, could have an adverse material effect on our business. Failure to comply with the requirements of our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financing agreement subjects the Company to certain market risks that could result in an increase in the Company's annual interest expense. Our financing agreement with GE Capital Corporation carries a variable interest rate, which exposes us to certain market risks. Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates. Certain risks of our business are uninsured and a claim or claims could adversely affect our business. We maintain standard insurance coverage such as general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, property insurance and auto insurance. We do not maintain coverage for employment practices liability or liability for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. 6 We attempt to control the risk of not having infringement liability insurance by entering into service agreements with terms that either disclaim or limit our liability for such claims. We may not be able to do so in a definitive manner in all agreements. In addition, disclaimers or limitations of liability for infringement in our contracts may not be enforceable in all situations. We attempt to control the risk of liability for employment claims by implementing and following sound employment practices and policies and through employee training as we deem necessary. Even if the terms of our agreements are sufficient to protect us from liability for infringement, our employment practices are appropriate or we are otherwise successful in defending infringement or employment claims, costly and time-consuming litigation of any such claim could adversely impact our business. A large successful claim brought against us for infringement or employment practices could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our quarterly operating results have varied, and are likely to continue to vary. This may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied in the past and are likely to vary from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in our share price. Some other factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially include: § the failure to be awarded a significant anticipated project; § the termination by a client of a material contract or the timing of purchase order expiration on existing contracts; § announcement of new services by us or our competitors; § announcement of acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors § changes in or failure to meet our earnings estimates or the estimates of securities analysts; § sales of common stock by our existing shareholders or the perception that such sales may occur; § sales of larger than normal volume in a short period of time; § inclusion or exclusion of our stock in market indexes; § adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damage awards; and § changes in management. The introduction of competitive IT solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing IT solutions or underlying technologies obsolete or unmarketable which could have an adverse effect on our business. The IT solutions industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changing client requirements and new service and product introductions. The introduction of competitive IT solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing IT solutions or underlying technologies obsolete or unmarketable. As a result, we are dependent in large part upon our ability to develop new IT solutions that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients, keep pace with new competitive service, product offerings and emerging industry standards and achieve broad market acceptance. Our business will be adversely affected if we are not successful in developing and marketing new IT solutions that respond to technological change, changing client requirements or evolving industry standards. Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained herein, which are not strictly historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “intends,” “possible,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” or “plans” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made herein are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on our current expectations for future demand for our products and services, and our beliefs with respect to the competition we face within our industry, as well as our revenues, earnings, results of operations and sales and such statements relate to, among other things, our growth strategies, cost-control methods, our working capital and cash requirements, our ability to meet the requirements of our credit agreement, and the realization of our deferred tax assets. The Company’s actual results may vary materially from those projected due to certain risks and uncertainties such as the general state of the economy, volume of business activity, continued need for our services by current and prospective clients, client cancellations or re-bidding of work, the Company’s ability to control and improve profit margins, including our ability to control operating and labor costs and hourly rates for our services, the availability and utilization of qualified technical personnel and other similar factors. For more information concerning risks and uncertainties related to the Company’s business, refer to the Company’s prior Annual Reports, 10-Ks, 10-Qs, other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and investor relations materials. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they were made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 