Item 1A. Risk Factors Market conditions and intense competition within the IT staffing industry may result in a loss of market share and could adversely affect our business. The market for our services is extremely competitive. Intense price competition in the area of IT staffing, continued pressure on billing rates, and customers' continued requests for lower cost models for IT staffing services will continue to pressure and, in some cases, could adversely impact our operating results. Management expects that clients will continue, for the foreseeable future, to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services through e-procurement systems, extremely competitive bidding processes, the granting of various types of discounts and the use of offshore resources. Our ability to respond to customer requests for lower pricing or to provide other low-cost solutions in this area of our business will have a direct effect on our performance. Furthermore, we are experiencing pressure from some clients who desire to utilize companies with larger market capitalization than ours for their IT staffing needs, requiring us to look for internal and external revenue growth opportunities. We expect competitive conditions in the area of IT staffing services to continue for the foreseeable future, although we expect demand for these services will increase modestly. Additionally, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and as a result, they may be able to adjust to changing market conditions and respond to customer demands more effectively than we are able. They may also have greater resources to devote to the development of new technologies, products and services. It is possible that new competitors, alliances among competitors or alliances between competitors and third parties may emerge and acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We derive a majority of our revenue from our IT staffing services and any decrease in demand for these services would adversely affect our revenues and operating performance. IT staffing continues to represent a majority of our total revenue and direct revenue. Recently, many companies have transitioned their IT services to low-cost, offshore outsourcing centers, particularly in India, that perform the companies' technology-related work and projects. This trend has contributed to the decline in domestic IT staffing services revenue as well as some on-site solutions-oriented projects. While we saw a slight increase in demand for our services in 2005, we experienced intense competition on average bill rates throughout the year and experienced a loss in subsupplier revenue resulting from the loss of prime vendor status at a large national account. There can be no assurance as to when, or if, we will experience sustained revenue growth. Our ability to respond to competitive conditions and trends will have a direct impact on our performance. Our success is directly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical personnel. Increased competition for these individuals may adversely affect our business. Our ability to quickly identify, attract and retain qualified technical personnel, especially during an economic recovery, will affect our results of operations and our ability to grow in the future. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we are unable to hire the talent required by our clients in a timely, cost-effective manner and with mutually beneficial pay rates and benefit packages, it will affect our ability to grow the business. Our ability to control employment-related costs and successfully implement cost-saving changes to our employee benefit plan will directly affect our profitability. In addition to our ability to control labor costs, our ability to control employee benefit costs and other employee-related costs will affect our future performance. In an effort to contain our benefits costs, we implement regular changes to our benefits plans. While we believe the changes we implement will be effective in helping us control costs, the effectiveness of these changes may vary due to factors beyond our control such as rising medical costs, the amount of medical services used by our employees and similar factors. Our success is dependent on our ability to market our products and services to our existing client base, to attract and retain new customers, and to successfully implement our customer service objectives. We continue to concentrate on IT staffing services in Fortune 500 and small and medium-sized businesses, business solutions for small and medium-sized businesses, and business opportunities with technology and product partners. To serve this client base, we are focusing on the following objectives: (i) implementing a next generation staffing model, which will transform workforce deployment and human capital management; (ii) continuing to implement a number of improvements around key business processes that we believe will better align our business with the market's needs and allow us to build a more adaptive delivery model to drive growth; (iii) building a focused set of services and solutions around high-demand, emerging technologies; and (iv) being an active participant in the significant consolidation taking place throughout the IT staffing and solutions industry. We believe these objectives present opportunities to grow our business and provide the scale we believe necessary to be successful in the staffing business in the long term. We believe scale is important because more clients require it, and scale provides the operating leverage necessary to create 5 competitive margins. Success in meeting the objectives outlined above will depend on, among other things, our ability to compete with other vendors, our ability to obtain qualified technical personnel, acceptance of our next generation staffing model by the marketplace, our success in obtaining new clients and our ability to implement those objectives. Our ability to compete in the IT staffing and solutions industry is partially dependent on our ability to continue to grow our business through acquisitions and manage the risks associated with our acquisition strategy. The size of an IT staffing and solutions provider is becoming increasingly important to our existing and potential customers. As the IT staffing market continues to consolidate, we continue to look for opportunities to acquire well-managed companies with strong client and/or vendor relationships and with geographic or vertical market presence complementary to our business. In pursuit of this strategy, we acquired WireSpeed Networks, LLC, an IP telephony company, and Redwood Solutions Corporation, a data storage solutions provider. Utilizing an acquisition strategy to grow revenues presents significant risks. If we are unable to transition and maintain the employee, client and vendor relationships of acquired companies, or are unable to integrate the back office operations of these companies to provide seamless and cost effective service to our combined clients, the anticipated benefits of these transactions may be less than expected. Additionally, use of our financial resources to acquire companies means these resources are not available for ordinary operations. While we expect to enter into transactions that are accretive to earnings and enhance cash flow, failure to successfully integrate acquired companies and achieve such results could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to control costs and adequately respond to client needs is critical to our continued success. Controlling our operating costs while not impeding our ability to respond to the needs of our clients is a key factor to our success. We have continued to streamline operations by consolidating offices, reducing administrative and management personnel and continuing to review the company structure for more efficient methods of operating our business and delivering our services. We may not be able to continue to reduce costs without affecting our ability to timely deliver service to our clients and therefore may choose to forego particular cost reductions if we believe it would be prudent to do so. The terms of our standard agreements with our customers allow the customers to terminate or reduce the amount of our services they purchase from us on short notice, and a limited number of customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of one or more significant customers could negatively affect our business. Terms and conditions standard to computer consulting services contracts also present a risk to our business. In general, our customers can cancel or reduce their contracts on short notice. A large portion of our revenue has and will likely continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers. During fiscal 2005, sales to IBM (13%) and Lexmark (6%) in the aggregate accounted for more than nineteen percent (19%) of our net revenues. Loss of either of these significant customer relationships or a significant portion thereof, a significant number of other relationships or a major contract could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to manage our working capital is critical to our continued growth and success. We believe our working capital will be sufficient for the foreseeable needs of our business. Significant rapid growth in our business, a major acquisition or a significant lengthening of payment terms with major clients could create a need for additional working capital. An inability to obtain additional working capital, should it be required, could have an adverse material effect on our business. Failure to comply with the requirements of our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financing agreement subjects the Company to certain market risks that could result in an increase in the Company's annual interest expense. Our financing agreement with GE Capital Corporation carries a variable interest rate, which exposes the company to certain market risks. Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates. Certain risks of our business are uninsured and a claim or claims could adversely affect our business. We maintain standard insurance coverage such as general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, property insurance and auto insurance. We do not maintain coverage for employment practices liability or liability for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. 6 We attempt to control the risk of not having infringement liability insurance by entering into service agreements with terms that either disclaim or limit our liability for such claims. We may not able to do so in a definitive manner in all agreements. In addition, disclaimers or limitations of liability for infringement in our contracts may not be enforceable in all situations. We attempt to control the risk of liability for employment claims by implementing and following sound employment practices and policies and through employee training as we deem necessary. Even if the terms of our agreements are sufficient to protect us from liability for infringement, our employment practices are appropriate or we are otherwise successful in defending infringement or employment claims, costly and time-consuming litigation of any such claim could adversely impact our business. A large successful claim brought against us for infringement or employment practices could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our quarterly operating results have varied, and are likely to continue to vary. This may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied in the past and are likely to vary from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in our share price. Some other factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially include: • the failure to be awarded a significant anticipated project; • the termination by a client of a material contract or the timing of purchase order expiration on existing contracts; • announcement of new services by us or our competitors; • announcement of acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; • changes in or failure to meet our earnings estimates or the estimates of securities analysts; • sales of common stock by our existing shareholders or the perception that such sales may occur; • adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damage awards; and • changes in management. The introduction of competitive IT solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing IT solutions or underlying technologies obsolete or unmarketable which could have an adverse effect on our business. The IT solutions industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changing client requirements and new service and product introductions. The introduction of competitive IT solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing IT solutions or underlying technologies obsolete or unmarketable. As a result, we are dependent in large part upon our ability to develop new IT solutions that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients, keep pace with new competitive service, product offerings and emerging industry standards and achieve broad market acceptance. Our business will be adversely affected if we are not successful in developing and marketing new IT solutions that respond to technological change, changing client requirements or evolving industry standards. Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained herein, which are not strictly historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “intends,” “possible,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” or “plans” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made herein are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the Company’s current expectations for future demand for our products and services, our revenues, earnings, results of operations and sales and relate to, among other things, our growth strategies, cost-control methods, our working capital and cash requirements, our ability to meet the requirements of our credit agreement, and the realization of our deferred tax assets. The Company’s actual results may vary materially from those projected due to certain risks and uncertainties such as the general state of the economy, volume of business activity, continued need for our services by current and prospective clients, client cancellations or re-bidding of work, the Company’s ability to control and improve profit margins, including our ability to control operating and labor costs and hourly rates for our services, the availability and utilization of qualified technical personnel and other similar factors. For more information concerning risks and uncertainties related to the Company’s business, refer to the Company’s prior Annual Reports, 10-Ks, 10-Qs, other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and investor relations materials. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they were made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 