Item 1A. Risk Factors If the economic downturn worsens or is prolonged, it would likely have a negative affect on our clients and their levels of spending, cause our revenues to decline, adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and negatively affect our ability to execute the Plan. The U.S. and global economies have entered into a recession as a result of deterioration in the credit markets and the related financial crises, as well as a variety of other factors. The economic downturn has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in reductions in technology and other discretionary spending by some of our clients, which has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in reductions in our business. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn, is affected by the regional and global economic conditions in which they operate. If our customers delay or cancel spending on the IT projects, that decision could result in reduction in sales of our services and products, longer sales cycles and increased price competition. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore spending to previous levels. Any continued or prolonged economic downturn could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as our ability to execute the Plan. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients, bill the clients, and typically collect within a reasonable time period. We maintain allowances against receivables, but actual losses on client balances could differ from those estimates. The current financial crisis has made it more difficult and there is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. In addition, timely collection of client balances depends on the business health of our client. As a result, any continued or prolonged economic downturn could result in our clients seeking to extend payment terms, delay payments, to enter into bankruptcy or liquidation, any of which would negatively impact our ability to collect client balances on a timely basis which would negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Intense competition within the IT staffing industry may result in a loss of market share and could adversely affect our business. The market for our services is extremely competitive. Intense price competition in the area of IT staffing, continued pressure on billing rates, and customers' continued requests for lower cost models for IT staffing services will continue to pressure and, in some cases, could adversely impact our operating results. Management expects that clients will continue, for the foreseeable future, to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services through e-procurement systems, extremely competitive bidding processes, the granting of various types of discounts and the use of offshore resources. Our ability to respond to customer requests for lower pricing or to provide other low-cost solutions in this area of our business will have a direct effect on our performance. We are also experiencing pressure from some clients who desire to utilize companies with larger market capitalization than ours for their IT staffing needs, requiring us to look for internal and external revenue growth opportunities. We expect competitive conditions in the area of IT staffing services to continue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and as a result, they may be able to adjust to changing market conditions and respond to customer demands more effectively than we are able. They may also have greater resources to devote to the development of new technologies, products and services. It is possible that new competitors, alliances among competitors or alliances between competitors and third parties may emerge and acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our success is directly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical consultant personnel. Increased competition for these individuals may adversely affect our business. Our ability to quickly identify, attract and retain qualified technical consultant personnel, especially during an economic recovery, will affect our results of operations and our ability to grow in the future. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we are unable to hire the talent required by our clients in a timely, cost-effective manner and with mutually beneficial pay rates and benefit packages, it will affect our ability to grow the business and improve our financial performance. We may be unsuccessful in executing the Plan and restoring the company profitability and increasing shareholder value. We announced the Plan in January 2008 to restore profitability and increase shareholder value. The Plan requires us to achieve several objectives such as: •increasing revenue, improving margins and adding sales personnel in higher-margin service areas; •expanding our value-added services in key metro markets; •strengthening relationships with technology partners; •reducing corporate expenses through consolidation of back-office and other corporate overhead functions; •exiting non-strategic, non-core lines of business; •investing in our IT systems in order to simplify, streamline and automate our business process; •attracting and retaining top talent; •managing our cash flow and maintaining a strong balance sheet; •delivering operating profits; •continue to improve our gross margins; and •building our public sector practice. Our ability to increase revenues, improve margins, and increase higher-margin services areas may be limited as long as our clients continue to be impacted by the economic downturn. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in our ability to expand into key metro markets, strengthen relationships with technology partners and successfully exit non-strategic, non-core lines of businesses. If we are unable to achieve one or more of objectives listed above, we may fail to restore profitability and increase shareholder value. Our ability to manage our working capital and our credit facility is critical to our success. From time to time, our operations may require more cash than is available from operations. In these circumstances, it may be necessary to borrow from credit facilities. Our ability to obtain financing in the future through credit facilities will be affected by several factors including our creditworthiness, our ability to operate in a profitable manner and general market and credit conditions. An inability to obtain additional working capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us or access to our existing credit facility, should it be required, could have an adverse material effect on our business. We believe our working capital and the availability under our existing credit facility will be sufficient for the foreseeable needs of our business. Significant changes in our business or cash outflows from operations could create a need for additional working capital. We may be unable to obtain necessary financing on terms reasonably acceptable to us. Reflecting the concern about the stability of the financial markets generally, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. Our ability to maintain and invest in our business requires sufficient bank credit lines to 9 Table of Contents support short-term borrowings. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets through short-term borrowings, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our $45.0 million credit line, which expires on January 20, 2010, includes a number of financial and operating restrictions. These provisions may limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to changing business, market and economic conditions. In addition, they may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer, if any, restrictions on may otherwise adversely affect our business. Further, there is no assurance we will be able to obtain a replacement line of credit and financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to comply with the requirements of our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. A failure to obtain a replacement line of credit on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms would also have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to attract key personnel could weaken our ability to deliver quality services and could adversely affect our business. We are substantially dependent on certain key employees. We are dependent on the services of our executive management team to direct efforts related to execution of the Plan. We are also dependent on certain personnel to maintain critical existing client relationships and attract new business. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to execute the Plan, maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel to perform these services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to satisfy the Nasdaq Global Market's continued listing requirements, including a minimum price per share of $1.00, our common stock may be delisted, which would likely impair the liquidity and the value of our common stock. As of March 25, 2009, the closing bid price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market was $0.41, which is below the minimum $1.00 bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market pursuant to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), or the Rule. Given the current extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq has announced a temporary moratorium on enforcement of the Rule. This moratorium is in effect until July 20, 2009 but there can be no assurance that Nasdaq will extend it. If we are not able to regain compliance by the time the Rule is reinstated, Nasdaq will provide us with an initial notice that our common stock will be delisted unless the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days within 180 calendar days from such notification. If we were to fail to regain compliance within 180 calendar days, we would receive written notice of delisting from Nasdaq, which we could then appeal to a Nasdaq Listings Qualifications Panel pursuant to applicable Nasdaq rules. Alternatively, we might be permitted under Nasdaq rules to transfer the listing of our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market if our common stock satisfies all criteria, other than compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, for initial inclusion on such market. In the event of such a transfer, the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules provide that we would be afforded an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price requirement while listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market and the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in our common stock would likely be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a regulated quotation service. If our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, the liquidity of our common stock may be reduced, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts' and the media's coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. Delisting could also result in a loss of confidence by our suppliers, customers and employees. 10 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about: (i) our expectations and beliefs with respect to the recession, the volatility of the capital markets, the tightening of lending standards in the credit markets, and the general downturn in the global economy, as well as our assumptions with respect to the impact these economic conditions will have on our business, including an expectation of a reduction in business volume, (ii) our Plan and the objectives of the Plan, including certain expense reduction initiatives and the planned expansion into new geographic markets, (iii) our expectations with respect to growing our business and achieving profitability, (iv) our expectations with respect to demand for our services and continuing pressure from clients to request lower cost offerings for IT staffing services, (v) our expectations with respect to competition in our industry and our ability to compete, (vi) our beliefs regarding the adequacy of our working capital and our ability to meet the requirements of our credit facility or to obtain a replacement credit facility on commercially reasonable terms, and (vii) our expectations with respect to our financial results and operating performance. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," and other words and terms of similar meaning or import in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: (i) our inability, in whole or in part, to implement or execute the Plan, (ii) our inability to successfully recruit and hire qualified technical personnel, (iii) our inability to successfully compete on a national basis with other companies in our industry by responding to our customers' varied staffing needs, (iv) our inability to maintain key client relationships, (v) our inability to attract or retain key personnel (vi) our inability to reduce operating costs, (vii) our inability to comply with the covenants in our credit facilities or inability to obtain a credit facility on commercially reasonable terms, (viii) a prolonged or worsened downturn in the national or global economy, and (ix) our inability to effectively manage accounts receivable, as well as other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting our business generally, including those set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2008, especially in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section, our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K or to update reasons why actual results would differ from those anticipated in any such forward-looking statements, other than as required by law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 