Item 1A. Risk Factors In an effort to provide investors a balanced view of our current condition and future growth opportunities, this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes comments by our management about future performance. These statements which are not historical information, are "forward-looking statements" pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These, and other forward-looking statements, are subject to business and economic risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be adversely affected, and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You are encouraged to review our 2009 Annual Report, this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and exhibits hereto filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to learn more about the various risks and uncertainties facing our business and their potential impact on our revenue, earnings and stock price. Unless required by law, we disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. The two acquisitions completed by the Company in Fiscal Year 2009 present integration challenges and significantly increased its long term debt. The Company's acquisition of M. S. Kennedy Corp. and Unicircuit, Inc. present management challenges and substantially increased - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8 our long term indebtedness. The Company has integrated both MSK's and Unicircuit's businesses into its Space & Defense Group. In doing so, there are risks and uncertainties that the expected benefits of the acquisition may not be realized (including the realization of the accretive effects from the acquisitions), risks of potential loss of key management employees of the acquired companies, and the potential risks of realization of unknown liabilities not identified during due diligence. We also significantly increased our long term indebtedness when we acquired MSK and Unicircuit, and the applicable loan agreement with our lender contains certain financial covenants that we are required to meet. Our Wireless business group has a significant concentration of business with one OEM customer, Nokia Siemens Networks (Nokia), who accounts for over 8% of net sales. Our Wireless group currently derives a significant amount of revenue from production of one combiner subassembly that is used in a Nokia single base station platform. Because of this relatively high concentration of business with one customer and for only one platform, the Company's revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely impacted by cancellation, postponement, or end of life of this particular combiner subassembly. We depend on a small number of suppliers for many of our component parts and services. In some cases we rely on a limited group of suppliers to provide us with services and materials necessary for the manufacture of our products. While we believe that substitute sources of supply at reasonably similar costs are available for these and other products purchased, our reliance on a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including potential inability to timely obtain critical materials or services; potential increase in raw materials costs or production costs; potential delays in delivery of raw materials or finished products; and reduced control over reliability and quality of components or assemblies, as outsourcing continues. We do not have binding contractual commitments or other controls over our suppliers, and therefore cannot always rely upon the guaranteed availability of the materials necessary for the manufacture of our products. If we are required to seek alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers because we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of acceptable quality from existing manufacturers or suppliers, we could be forced to delay delivery of our products to our customers. In addition, if our suppliers and contract manufacturers increase their prices, we could suffer losses because we may be unable to recover these cost increases under fixed price production commitments to our customers. Capital expenditures by wireless service providers for infrastructure equipment are volatile. Demand for the Company's Wireless infrastructure equipment products continues to fluctuate and visibility remains relatively unpredictable. Despite this fluctuation and poor visibility, sales across all wireless product lines were strong throughout fiscal year 2008 and relatively strong although somewhat weaker, in fiscal year 2009. Future decreases in capital expenditures for Wireless infrastructure equipment could significantly adversely impact the success of the Company's Wireless business. The Company's results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates. The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on the Company's financing activities. The Company's $50.0 million dollar demand note agreement with Key Bank National Association (Keybank), which provided the financing for the MSK and Unicircuit acquisitions bears interest at the Company's choice at LIBOR, plus 100 to 450 bases points, or at Key Bank's prime rate, minus 100 to plus 225 bases points, depending upon the Company's EBITDA performance at the end of each quarter as measured by a defined formula. Therefore, a ten percent change in the LIBOR interest rate at September 30, 2009 would have the effect of increasing or decreasing interest expense by approximately $60,000 annually. Changes in funding for defense procurement programs could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our revenues and profitability. The demand for many of our Space & Defense products has been favorably impacted by an upward trend in defense spending in the last few years for, among other things, advanced radar systems, advanced jamming systems, smart munitions, electronic surveillance systems and satellite and ground based communication systems. Although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that the total defense budget may decline over the next few years. The specific programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during the budget formulation and appropriation processes. While we believe that our products are a high priority for national defense, there remains the possibility that one or more of the programs we serve will be reduced, extended or terminated. Reductions in these existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to grow our revenues and profitability. We face continuing pressure to reduce the average selling price of our Wireless products. Many of our wireless customers are under continuous pressure to reduce costs and, therefore, we expect to continue to experience pressure from these customers to reduce the prices of the products that we sell to them. Our customers frequently negotiate volume supply arrangements well in advance of delivery dates, requiring us to commit to price reductions before we can determine whether the assumed cost reductions or the negotiated supply volumes can be achieved. To offset declining average sales - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9 prices, we believe that we must achieve manufacturing cost reductions and increase our sales volumes. If we are unable to offset declining average selling prices, our gross margins will decline, and this decline could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. During fiscal year 2009 this pricing pressure intensified, particularly affecting our ferrite and resistor product lines. We depend on the future development of the wireless and satellite communications markets, which is difficult to predict. We believe that our future growth depends in part on the success of the wireless and satellite communications markets. A number of the markets for our products in the wireless and satellite communications area have only recently begun to develop. It is difficult to predict the rate at which these markets will grow, if at all. Existing or potential wireless and satellite communications applications for our products may fail to develop or may erode. If the markets for our products in wireless and satellite communications fail to grow, or grow more slowly than anticipated, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. The markets which we serve are very competitive, and if we do not compete effectively in our markets, we will lose sales and have lower margins. The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, new product development and evolving industry standards. In addition, price competition is intense and significant price erosion generally occurs over the life of a product. We face competition from component manufacturers which have integration capabilities, as well as from the internal capabilities of large communications original equipment manufacturers and defense prime contractors. Our future success will depend in part upon the extent to which these parties elect to purchase from outside sources rather than manufacture their own microwave components. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us, and have greater name recognition and market acceptance of their products and technologies. Our competitors may develop new technologies or products that may offer superior price or performance features, and new products or technologies may render our customers' products obsolete. If we are unable to meet the rapid technological changes in the wireless and satellite communications markets, our existing products could become obsolete. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent improvements in products and services. If technologies supported by our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread acceptance, as a result of a change in the industry standards or otherwise, our business could be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on factors including our ability to enhance the functionality of our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner; our ability to establish close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new wireless transmission systems that incorporate our products; our ability to identify, develop and achieve market acceptance of new products that address new technologies and meet customer needs in wireless communications markets; our ability to continue to apply our expertise and technologies to existing and emerging wireless and satellite communications markets; and our ability to achieve acceptable product costs on new products. We must also continue to make significant investments in research and development efforts in order to develop necessary product enhancements, new designs and technologies. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of engineers, or other technical support staff, or the funds necessary to support our research and development efforts when needed. In addition, our research and development efforts may not be successful, and our new products may not achieve market acceptance. Wireless and satellite technologies are complex and new products and enhancements developed by our customers can in turn require long development periods for our new products or for enhancement or adaptation of our existing products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. We rely on a limited number of original equipment manufacturers as customers and the loss of one or more of them could harm our business. We depend upon a small number of customers for a majority of our revenues. During fiscal 2009, we had one customer that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales (Lockheed Martin Corporation, who represented 14.8% of net sales). We anticipate that we will continue to sell products to a relatively small group of customers. Delays in manufacturing or supply procurement or other factors, including consolidation of customers, could potentially cause cancellation, reduction or delay in orders by a significant customer or in shipments to a significant customer. Our future success depends significantly on the decision of our current customers to continue to purchase products from us, as well as the decision of prospective customers to develop and market space and defense and wireless communications systems that incorporate our products. We must continue to attract and retain qualified engineers and other key employees to grow our business. Our continued success depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified engineers, particularly microwave engineers, and management personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified engineers, including microwave engineers, particularly in Upstate New - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10 York, is very challenging. If we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain qualified engineers and experienced management personnel, it could jeopardize our ability to develop new products for the wireless and space and defense markets, and could also negatively impact our ability to grow our business. Failure to meet market expectations could impact our stock price. The market price for our common stock is based, in part, on market expectations for our sales growth, margin improvement, earnings per share and cash flow. Failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our stock to decline, potentially rapidly and sharply. Current worldwide economic downturn could significantly impact demand for Company products. The current global economic downturn and financial credit crisis continues to adversely effect business conditions. The recession in the U.S. and key foreign markets could substantially effect Company sales, profitability and financial condition. The dramatic downturn has reduced economic activity particularly in some of the Wireless product markets in which we operate and cannot be predicted when, or to what extent economic recovery might occur. Recent actions taken by numerous governments throughout the world to restore equity, including aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus actions by the U.S. government may not be effective in addressing the economic problems that are the underlying causes of our current recession. The Company's Wireless business significantly depends upon its China operations To compete globally against low cost manufacturers who primarily operate in the Asia Pacific rim the Company has established an assembly and test facility in Suzhou, China and also maintains a sales and marketing group based in Suzhou. Conducting operations in China could be impacted by the political environment within China and trade relations between the U.S. and Chinese governments. To the extent products manufactured in Suzhou, China are sold outside of China the Company may be impacted by currency fluctuations and therefore to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens significantly against Chinese currency, the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected. The location of the Company's Suzhou, China facility is in an economic development area which may be impacted by expansion of China's mass transit system. If the Company was required to relocate the Suzhou facility as a result of a government mandate, the Company's ability to locate a suitable facility within the Suzhou Office Park and its ability to successfully transition operations to the new facility may adversely impact sales and profitability of the Company's Wireless business group. The Company could experience an impairment of goodwill or tradenames. As the result of the two acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009, and acquisitions made in previous years, goodwill and other intangibles incurred as a percentage of the Company's total assets increased. At June 30, 2009, the total assets of the Company were $237.1 million, which included $45.6 million of goodwill and tradenames. The goodwill arose from the excess of the purchase price of each acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired. The tradenames were valued separately from goodwill at the amount which an independent third party would be willing to pay for use of the MSK and Unicircuit names. The Company performs annual evaluations for potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and tradenames in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. To date, these evaluations have not resulted in the need to recognize an impairment charge. However, if the Company's financial performance were to decline significantly, especially in the Company's Wireless business group, the Company could incur a non-cash charge in its income statement for the impairment of goodwill or tradenames. We have been unable to procure a new tenant for our U.K. leased facility. We currently lease approximately 20,000 square feet in a building located in Frimley, England, pursuant to a lease agreement that expires in February 2014, with an annual rent expense, property taxes, and fees amounting to approximately $625,000. Despite our efforts since October 2007, we have been unable to secure a new tenant(s) to take occupancy of the leased space. As a result, we have taken an impairment charge for 50% of the remaining liability and if we remain unsuccessful in procuring a new tenant, we may be required to take additional impairment charges related to this lease. Most recently, we have marketed the property at 50% of the lease hold rate and to date have not identified any prospective tenant(s). Other Risks In addition to the risks identified above, other risks we face include, but are not limited to, the following: o the effect of significant changes in monetary and fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad, including significant income tax changes, currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures, unforeseen intergovernmental conflicts or actions, including but not limited to military conflict and trade wars; o potential inability to timely ramp up to meet some of our customers' increased demands; - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11 o order cancellations or extended postponements; o unanticipated delays and/or difficulties increasing procurement of raw materials in Asia through our Suzhou, China facility; o technological shifts away from our technologies and core competencies; o unanticipated impairments of assets including investment values and goodwill; and o litigation involving antitrust, intellectual property, environmental, product warranty, product liability, and other issues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 