Item 1A. Risk Factors In an effort to provide investors a balanced view of our current condition and future growth opportunities, this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes comments by our management about future performance. These statements which do not reflect historical information are "forward-looking statements" pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These, and other forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, but rather, are subject to business and economic risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial also may adversely affect, to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be adversely affected, and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You are encouraged to review our 2013 Annual Report, this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 and exhibits hereto filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to learn more about the various risks and uncertainties facing our business and their potential impact on our revenue, earnings and stock price. Unless required by law, we disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. We depend on a small number of suppliers for many of our component parts and services. In some cases we rely on a limited group of suppliers and vendors, particularly board fabrication and plating vendors to provide us with services and materials necessary for the manufacture of our products. For example, we rely on one supplier for printed circuit boards used in the manufacture of certain surface mount microwave components. On July 10, 2013, this supplier filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Although at the present time the supplier continues to operate its business, there have been delays in production which in turn have resulted in delayed shipments to some of our customers. We are not in a position to know whether additional delays will result or whether this supplier will even continue to operate its business, or whether we will incur penalties from our customers for late shipments. In total, we use these plated boards to support approximately $12 million in annual fiscal sales by the Wireless Group. Our reliance on a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including potential inability to timely obtain critical materials or services; potential increase in raw materials costs or production costs; potential delays in delivery of raw material or finished products; and reduced control over reliability and quality of components, and assemblies, as outsourcing continues. We do not have binding contractual commitments or other controls over our suppliers, and therefore cannot always rely upon the guaranteed availability of the materials necessary for the manufacture of our products. If we are required to seek alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers because we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of acceptable quality from existing manufacturers or suppliers, we could be forced to delay delivery of our products to our customers. In addition, if our suppliers and contract manufacturers increase their prices, we could suffer losses because we may be unable to recover these cost increases under fixed price production commitments to our customers. During fiscal 2013, we experienced continuing price increases from many suppliers impacted by rising raw material prices. Our Suzhou, China Operations must successfully relocate to another facility. Because of the condemnation and forced sale of the Company’s current leased facility in Suzhou, the Suzhou operations must vacate the premises and relocate to a new facility. This relocation is expected to occur sometime during the first quarter of fiscal 2014. This move, although within the Suzhou Industrial Park, will require a full customer recertification process. If we are unsuccessful in becoming recertified by our customers, or if we have difficulties with the removal/reinstallation of equipment, operations could be disrupted and revenue impacted. Capital expenditures by Wireless service providers for infrastructure equipment are volatile. Demand for the Company’s Wireless infrastructure equipment products continues to fluctuate and visibility remains relatively unpredictable. Approximately 20% of the Company’s revenue came from sales to Wireless OEMs. Demand for the Company’s products in this market depends primarily on capital spending by operators for constructing, rebuilding or upgrading systems. The amount of this capital spending and, therefore, the Company’s revenue and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, consolidation within the communications industry, the financial condition of operators and access to financing, competition, technological developments, new legislation and regulation of operators . Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor continued volatility, future decreases in capital expenditures for Wireless infrastructure equipment, or other RF components produced by the Company’s Wireless Group, could significantly adversely impact revenue and profitability and the overall success of the Company’s Wireless business. 12 We face continuing pressure to reduce the average selling price of our Wireless products. Many of our Wireless customers are under continuous pressure to reduce costs and, therefore, we expect to continue to experience pressure from these customers to reduce our prices. Our customers frequently negotiate volume supply arrangements well in advance of delivery dates, requiring us to commit to price reductions before we can determine whether the assumed manufacturing cost reductions or the negotiated supply volumes can be achieved. To offset declining average sale prices, we believe that we must continuously achieve manufacturing cost reductions and increase our sales volumes. If we are unable to offset declining average selling prices, our gross margins will decline, and this decline could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Component pricing pressure is expected to continue in fiscal 2014, despite what is expected to be a modest increase in customer demand over fiscal year 2013 levels. The Company’s results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates. The Company could have market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on the Company’s financing activities if advances are taken on the Company’s $50 million revolving credit facility. The Company has a $50 million revolving credit facility (Line) agreement with Key Bank National Association (Lender). The Line bears interest at the 30-day London inter-bank offer rate (LIBOR), plus 100 to 200 basis points, or at the Lender’s prime rate, plus 0 to 75 basis points, based upon the Company's earnings before interest and taxes and depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) performance at the end of each quarter as measured by the leverage ratio, total indebtedness divided by EBITDA. As of June 30, 2013, the Company did not have any outstanding balance in connection with the Keybank credit facility. Changes in funding for defense procurement programs could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our revenues and profitability. Approximately 50% of the Company’s 2013 revenues came from sales to the military market, including the U.S. and various foreign militaries. Although demand for many of our Space & Defense products has been favorably impacted by an upward trend in United States defense spending in the last few years for, among other things, advanced radar systems, advanced jamming systems, smart munitions, electronic surveillance systems and satellite and ground based communication systems, the government’s current sequestration process creates significant uncertainty regarding future military sales. Although the ultimate size of future United States defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications is that the total defense budget will likely decline over the next few years. The specific programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during the budget formulation and appropriation processes. While we believe that our products are a high priority for national defense, there remains the possibility that one or more of the programs we serve will be reduced, extended or terminated. Depending upon the degree of the U.S. defense budget decrease and the specific technologies and programs effected, and potential reductions in foreign government defense expenditures, our revenues and profitability could be significantly impacted. We depend on the future development of the wireless and satellite communications markets, which is difficult to predict. We believe that our future growth depends in part on the success of the wireless infrastructure, satellite communications markets and a broad range of industrial and consumer wireless applications. Existing or potential wireless infrastructure and satellite communications applications for our products are difficult to predict and may not grow as projected or may even erode. A number of the end markets for our products (specifically the AIR products) in the industrial and consumer wireless areas have only recently begun to develop. It is difficult to predict the rate at which these markets will grow and what share of the market the Company’s product will obtain. If the markets for our products in wireless infrastructure, satellite communications and industrial and consumer wireless applications fail to grow, or grow more slowly than anticipated, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely be harmed. The markets which we serve are very competitive, and if we do not compete effectively in our markets, we will lose sales and have lower margins. The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, new product development and evolving industry standards. In addition, price competition is intense and significant price erosion generally occurs over the life of a product, especially affecting our Wireless products. We face competition from component manufacturers which have integration capabilities, as well as from the internal capabilities of large communications OEMs and defense prime contractors. Our future success will depend in part upon the extent to which these parties elect to purchase from outside sources rather than manufacture their own microwave components. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us, and have greater name recognition and market acceptance of their products and technologies. Our competitors may also develop new technologies or products that may offer superior price or performance features. There also can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter the Company’s markets. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats and other disruptions. As a defense contractor, we face various security threats, including cyber security threats to gain unauthorized access to classified or other sensitive information, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure, and threats from terrorist acts. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security threats in materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and other sensitive information, infrastructure potentially associated to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and cash flows. 13 If we are unable to meet the rapid technological changes in the wireless and satellite communications markets, our existing products could become obsolete. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent improvements in products and services. If technologies supported by our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread acceptance, as a result of a change in the industry standards or otherwise, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend in part on factors including our ability to enhance the functionality of our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to establish close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new wireless transmission systems that incorporate our products, our ability to identify, develop and achieve market acceptance of new products that address new technologies and meet customer needs in wireless communications markets, our ability to continue to apply our expertise and technologies to existing and emerging wireless and satellite communications markets, and our ability to achieve acceptable product costs on new products. We must also continue to make significant investments in research and development efforts in order to develop necessary product enhancements, new designs and technologies. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of engineers, or other technical support staff, or the funds necessary to support our research and development efforts when needed. In addition, our research and development efforts may not be successful, and our new products may not achieve market acceptance. Wireless and satellite technologies are complex and new products and enhancements developed by our customers can in turn require long development periods for our new products or for enhancement or adaptation of our existing products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. We rely on a limited number of OEMs as customers and the loss of one or more of them could harm our business. We depend upon a small number of customers for a majority of our revenues. During fiscal 2013, we had three customers that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales (Lockheed Martin accounted for 16.0% of net sales, Raytheon Company accounted for 13.0% of net sales, and Northrop Grumman accounted for 10.8% of net sales). We anticipate that we will continue to sell products to a relatively small group of customers. Delays in manufacturing or supply procurement or other factors, including consolidation of customers, could potentially cause cancellation, reduction or delay in orders by a significant customer or in shipments to a significant customer. Our future success depends significantly on the decision of our current customers to continue to purchase products from us, as well as the decision of prospective customers to develop and market space and defense and wireless communications systems that incorporate our products. We must continue to attract and retain qualified engineers and other key employees to grow our business. Our continued success depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified engineers, particularly microwave engineers, and management personnel. Currently, we employ approximately 159 degreed engineers that are very important to our continued ability to be innovative and work closely with customers’ technical personnel so that our products get designed in and qualified for integration into customer products. Attracting and retaining qualified engineers, including microwave engineers is challenging. If we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain qualified engineers and experienced management personnel, it could jeopardize our ability to develop new products for the wireless and space and defense markets, and could also negatively impact our ability to grow our business. Failure to meet market expectations could impact our stock price. The market price for our common stock is based, in part, on market expectations for our sales growth, margin improvement, earnings per share and cash flow. Failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our stock to decline, potentially rapidly and sharply. The trading volume for our stock is also relatively low and contributes to volatility in our share price. If trading volume declines, additional volatility could result in our share price. The Company could experience an impairment of goodwill or tradenames. As the result of the acquisitions made in previous years, goodwill and other intangibles incurred as a percentage of the Company’s total assets increased. At June 30, 2013, the total assets of the Company were $215.6 million, which included $45.3 million of goodwill and tradenames. The goodwill arose primarily from the excess of the purchase price of each acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired. The tradenames were valued separately from goodwill at the amount which an independent third party would be willing to pay for use of the MSK and Unicircuit names. The Company performs annual evaluations for potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and tradenames in accordance with GAAP goodwill and intangible asset accounting rules. To date, these evaluations have not resulted in the need to recognize an impairment charge. However, if the Company’s financial performance were to decline significantly, the Company could incur a non-cash charge in its income statement for the impairment of goodwill or tradenames. 14 Other Risks In addition to the risks identified above, other risks we face include, but are not limited to, the following: ● the effect of significant changes in monetary and fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad, including significant income tax changes, currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures, unforeseen intergovernmental conflicts or actions, including but not limited to military conflict and trade wars; ● potential inability to timely ramp up to meet some of our customers', particularly Wireless Group customers increased demands; ● order cancellations or extended postponements; ● environmental hazards resulting in the temporary or permanent loss of operation permits; ● unanticipated delays and/or difficulties increasing procurement of raw materials in Asia through our Suzhou, China facility; ● technological shifts away from our technologies and core competencies; ● rapidly increasing employment costs, particularly in historically low-cost regions like Suzhou, China. ● unanticipated impairments of assets including investment values; and ● litigation involving mergers and acquisitions, antitrust, intellectual property, environmental, product warranty, product liability, and other issues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 