D. Risk Factors Once a year, Panasonic implements a Groupwide risk assessment survey to identify potential risks in an integrated and comprehensive manner. By identifying, evaluating and prioritizing these risks, Panasonic specifies risks at the Corporate Headquarters, business domain companies and Group affiliates, takes countermeasures that correspond to the materiality of each risk, and seeks continuous improvements through the monitoring of the progress of such countermeasures. Primarily because of the business areas and geographical areas where it operates, and the highly competitive nature of the industry to which it belongs, Panasonic is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties in conducting its businesses, including, but not limited to, the following. These risks may adversely affect Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition. This section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this annual report. Risks Related to Economic Conditions Continued or further weakness in Japanese and global economies may cause reduced demand for Panasonic’s products Demand for Panasonic’s products and services may be affected by general economic trends in the countries or regions in which Panasonic’s products and services are sold. Economic downturns and resulting declines in demand in Panasonic’s major markets worldwide may thus adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Triggered by the financial crisis in fiscal 2009, Panasonic’s business environment rapidly deteriorated due to declines in global consumption and business activities and due to intensified price competition. Regarding the business environment for fiscal 2011, ending March 31, 2011, the Company currently anticipates market conditions to remain unpredictable due to various factors including the yen’s appreciation and ever-intensified global competition, despite a gradually recovering global economy. Panasonic may incur increased costs for additional business restructuring in order to cope with the business environment. If global market conditions worsen beyond expectations, the business environment of Panasonic may deteriorate more than currently anticipated, which may adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect Panasonic’s operating results Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition, because its international business transactions and costs and prices of its products and services in overseas countries are affected by foreign exchange rate changes. In addition, foreign exchange rate changes can also affect the yen value of Panasonic’s investments in overseas assets and liabilities because Panasonic’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Japanese yen. Generally, an appreciation of the yen against other major currencies such as the U.S. dollar and the euro may adversely affect Panasonic’s operating results. Meanwhile, a depreciation of the yen against the aforementioned major currencies may have a favorable impact on Panasonic’s operating results. The global financial crisis, which occurred in 2008, caused the rapid appreciation of the yen against other major currencies, which adversely and significantly affected Panasonic’s operating results in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010. Any further or continued appreciation of the yen may adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect Panasonic’s financial condition, etc. Panasonic is exposed to interest rate fluctuation risks which may affect the Company’s operational costs, interest expenses, interest income and the value of financial assets and liabilities. Accordingly, interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Table of Contents - 4 - Continuation or deterioration of financial market turmoil may adversely affect Panasonic’s ability to raise funds or may increase the cost of fund raising Panasonic raises funds for its business through methods such as borrowing from financial institutions and issuance of bonds and commercial papers. Where, among other events, financial market turmoil continues or deteriorates, financial institutions reduce lending to Panasonic, or rating agencies downgrade Panasonic’s credit ratings, Panasonic may not be able to raise funds in the time and amount necessary for Panasonic, or under conditions which Panasonic deems appropriate, and Panasonic may incur additional costs of raising funds, which may adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Decreases in the value of Japanese stocks may adversely affect Panasonic’s financial results Panasonic holds mostly Japanese stocks as part of its investment securities. The value of such stocks has dropped significantly due to the world financial crisis and the recession of Japanese economy in fiscal 2009, causing Panasonic to record losses on valuation of its investment securities in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010. Further decreases in the value of stocks may cause additional losses due to decreases in the valuation of investment securities, thereby adversely affecting Panasonic’s operating results and financial condition. The decrease in the value of Japanese stocks may also reduce stockholders’ equity on the balance sheet, as unrealized holding gains (losses) of available-for-sale securities are included as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Risks Related to Panasonic’s Business Competition in the industry may adversely affect Panasonic’s ability to maintain profitability Panasonic develops, produces and sells a broad range of products and therefore faces many different types of competitors, from large international companies to relatively small, rapidly growing, and highly specialized organizations. Panasonic may choose not to fund or invest in one or more of its businesses to the same degree as its competitors in those businesses do, or it may not be able to do so in a timely manner or even at all. These competitors may have greater financial, technological, and marketing resources than Panasonic in the respective businesses in which they compete. Rapid declines in product prices may adversely affect Panasonic’s financial condition Panasonic’s business is subject to intense price competition worldwide, which makes it difficult for the Company to determine product prices and maintain adequate profits. Such intensified price competition may adversely affect Panasonic’s profits, especially in terms of possible decreases in demand. Amid accelerating changes in the structure of markets, such as a demand shift to emerging markets and lower-priced products, and market expansion of environmental and energy-related businesses, Panasonic’s product prices in digital electronics and many other business areas may continue to decline significantly. Panasonic’s business is, and will continue to be, subject to risks generally associated with international business operations One of Panasonic’s business strategies is business expansion in overseas markets. In many of these markets, Panasonic may face risks generally associated with international manufacturing and other business operations, such as political instability, including terrorist attacks and abduction, cultural and religious differences and labor relations, as well as economic uncertainty and foreign currency exchange risks. Panasonic may also face barriers in commercial and business customs in foreign countries, including difficulties in timely collection of accounts receivable or in building and expanding relationships with customers, subcontractors or parts suppliers. Panasonic may also experience various political, legal or other restrictions in investment, trade, manufacturing, labor or other aspects of operations, including restrictions on foreign investment or the repatriation of profits on invested capital, nationalization of local industry, changes in export or import restrictions or foreign exchange controls, and changes in the tax system or the rate of taxation in countries where Panasonic operates businesses. With respect to products exported overseas, tariffs, other barriers or shipping costs may make Panasonic’s products less competitive in terms of price. Expanding its overseas business may require significant investments long before Panasonic realizes returns on such investments, and increased investments may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues. Table of Contents - 5 - Panasonic may not be able to keep pace with technological changes and develop new products or services in a timely manner to remain competitive Panasonic may fail to introduce new products or services in response to technological changes in a timely manner. Some of Panasonic’s core businesses, such as consumer digital electronics and key components and devices, are concentrated in industries where technological innovation is the central competitive factor. Panasonic continuously faces the challenge of developing and introducing viable and innovative new products. Panasonic must predict with reasonable accuracy both future demand and new technologies that will be available to meet such demand. If Panasonic fails to do so, it will not be able to compete effectively in new markets. Panasonic may not be able to develop product formats that can prevail as de facto standards Panasonic has been forming alliances and partnerships with other major manufacturers to strengthen technologies and the development of product formats, such as next-generation home and mobile networking products, data storage devices, and software systems. Despite these efforts, Panasonic’s competitors may succeed in developing de facto standards for future products before Panasonic can. In such cases, the Company’s competitive position, business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Panasonic may not be able to successfully recruit and retain skilled employees, particularly scientific, technical and management professionals Panasonic’s future success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain certain key personnel, including scientific, technical and management professionals. Industry demand for skilled employees, however, exceeds the number of personnel available, and the competition for attracting and retaining these employees is intense. Because of this intense competition for skilled employees, Panasonic may be unable to retain its existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees to keep up with future business needs. If this should happen, Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Alliances with, and strategic investments in, third parties, and mergers and acquisitions undertaken by Panasonic, may not produce positive or expected results Panasonic develops its businesses by forming alliances or joint ventures with, and making strategic investments in, other companies, including investments in start-up companies. Furthermore, the strategic importance of partnering with third parties is increasing. In some cases, such partnerships are crucial to Panasonic’s goal of introducing new products and services, but Panasonic may not be able to successfully collaborate or achieve expected synergies with its partners. Furthermore, Panasonic does not control these partners, who may make decisions regarding their business undertakings with Panasonic that may be contrary to Panasonic’s interests. In addition, if these partners change their business strategies, Panasonic may fail to maintain these partnerships. Panasonic and SANYO, upon resolutions of meetings of their respective Boards of Directors held on December 19, 2008, entered into a Capital and Business Alliance Agreement to widely pursue synergies in all business aspects of both companies. Panasonic subsequently conducted a tender offer for SANYO shares (at a purchase price of 131 yen per share of common stock, 1,310 yen per share of Class A preferred stock and 1,310 yen per share of Class B preferred stock) from November 5 through December 9, 2009, pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors held on November 4, 2009. As a result of Panasonic’s conversion of the Class B preferred stock of SANYO that it acquired through the tender offer into common stock, SANYO and its subsidiaries became Panasonic consolidated subsidiaries in December 2009. However, Panasonic may fail to achieve the expected results, despite the Company’s efforts to maximize synergies from the addition of SANYO to the Panasonic Group. Furthermore, as a result of consolidation of SANYO, deterioration of SANYO’s operating results and financial condition may adversely affect Panasonic’s operating results and financial condition. Panasonic is dependent on the ability of third parties to deliver parts, components and services in adequate quality and quantity in a timely manner, and at a reasonable price Panasonic’s manufacturing operations depend on obtaining raw materials, parts and components, equipment and other supplies including services from reliable suppliers at adequate quality and quantity in a timely manner. It may be difficult for Panasonic to substitute one supplier for another, increase the number of suppliers or change one component for another in a timely manner or at all due to the interruption of supply caused by, among other conditions, the bankruptcy of suppliers or increased industry demand. This may adversely affect the Panasonic Group’s operations. Although Panasonic decides purchase prices by contract, the prices of raw materials, including iron and steel, resin, and non-ferrous metals, and parts and components, may increase due to changes in supply and demand and the inflow of investment funds. Some components are only available from a limited number of suppliers, which also may adversely affect Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition. Table of Contents - 6 - Panasonic is exposed to the risk that its customers may encounter financial difficulties Many of Panasonic’s customers purchase products and services from Panasonic on payment terms that do not provide for immediate payment. If customers from whom Panasonic has substantial accounts receivable encounter financial difficulties and are unable to make payments on time, Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Panasonic’s Management Plans Panasonic is implementing a midterm management plan called “Green Transformation 2012” (GT12), announced on May 7, 2010, which runs from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2013. Under this plan, Panasonic aims to achieve an operating profit* to sales ratio of 5% or more, sales of 10 trillion yen, ROE of 10% and CO2 emission reductions of 50 million tons (compared to the estimated amount of emission in fiscal 2013 assuming that no remedial measures were taken since fiscal 2006.) However, Panasonic may not be successful in achieving all the targets or in realizing the expected benefits because of various external and internal factors including deterioration of the business environment and increased costs of business restructuring such as additional business reorganization, the impairment of fixed assets and employment adjustment in order to cope with the business environment. * In order to be consistent with generally accepted financial reporting practices in Japan, operating profit, a non-GAAP measure, is presented as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company believes that this is useful to investors in comparing the company’s financial results with those of other Japanese companies. Risks Related to Legal Restrictions and Litigations Panasonic may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could result in significant direct or indirect costs The occurrence of quality problems due to product defects, including safety incidents, in Panasonic products could make Panasonic liable for damages not covered by product and completed operation liability insurance, whereby the Company could incur significant expenses. Due to negative publicity concerning these problems, Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Panasonic may fail to protect its proprietary intellectual properties, or face claims of intellectual property infringement by a third party, and may lose its intellectual property rights on key technologies or be liable for significant damages Panasonic’s success depends on its ability to obtain intellectual property rights covering its products and product design. Patents may not be granted or may not be of sufficient scope or force to provide Panasonic with adequate protection or commercial advantage. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protections may be unavailable or limited in some countries in which Panasonic operates. Competitors or other third parties may also develop technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights, which make such technologies unavailable or available only on terms unfavorable to Panasonic. The Company obtains licenses for intellectual property rights from other parties; however, such licenses may not be available at all or on acceptable terms in the future. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce Panasonic’s intellectual property rights or to defend against intellectual property infringement claims brought against Panasonic by third parties. In such cases, Panasonic may incur significant expenses for such lawsuits. Furthermore, Panasonic may be prohibited from using certain important technologies or liable for damages in cases of admitted violations of intellectual property rights of others. Table of Contents - 7 - Changes in accounting standards and tax systems may adversely affect Panasonic’s financial results and condition Introduction of new accounting standards or tax systems, or changes thereof, which Panasonic cannot predict, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. In addition, if tax authorities have different opinions from Panasonic on the Company’s tax declarations, Panasonic may need to make larger tax payments than estimated. Payments or compensation related to environmental regulations or issues may adversely affect Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition Panasonic is subject to environmental regulations such as those relating to climate change, air pollution, water pollution, elimination of hazardous substances, waste management, product recycling, and soil and groundwater contamination, and may be held responsible for certain related payments or compensation. Furthermore, if these regulations become stricter and an additional duty of eliminating the use of environmentally hazardous materials is imposed, or if the Company determines that it is necessary and appropriate, from the viewpoint of corporate social responsibility, to respond to environmental issues, the payment of penalties for the violation of these regulations or voluntary payment of compensation for consolation to parties affected by such issues may adversely affect Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition. Leaks of confidential information or trade secrets may adversely affect Panasonic’s business In the normal course of business, Panasonic holds confidential information mainly about customers regarding credit worthiness and other information, as well as confidential information about companies and other third parties. Such information may be leaked due to an accident or other inevitable cause, and any material leakage of confidential information may result in significant expense for related lawsuits and adversely affect Panasonic’s business and image. Moreover, besides customer information, there is a risk that Panasonic’s trade secrets, such as technology information, may be leaked by illegal conduct or by mere negligence of external parties, etc. If such is the case, Panasonic’s business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Governmental laws and regulations may limit Panasonic’s activities, increase its operating costs or subject it to sanctions and lawsuits Panasonic is subject to governmental regulations in Japan and other countries in which it conducts its business, including governmental approvals required for conducting business and investments, laws and regulations governing the telecommunications businesses and electric product safety, national security-related laws and regulations and export/import laws and regulations, as well as commercial, antitrust, patent, product liability, environmental laws and regulations, consumer protection, financial and business taxation laws and regulations, and internal control regulations due to the implementation of stricter laws and regulations and stricter interpretations. However, to the extent that Panasonic cannot comply with these laws and regulations from technical and economic perspectives, or if they become stricter and Panasonic determines that it would not be economical to continue to comply with them, Panasonic would need to limit its activities in the affected business areas. These laws and regulations could increase Panasonic’s operating costs. In addition, in the event that governmental authorities find or determine that Panasonic has violated these laws and regulations, Panasonic could become subject to regulatory sanctions, including money penalties, or criminal sanctions or civil lawsuits for damages, and could also suffer reputational harm. Risks Related to Disasters or Unpredictable Events Panasonic’s facilities and information systems could be damaged as a result of disasters or unpredictable events, which could have an adverse effect on its business operations Panasonic’s headquarters and major facilities including manufacturing plants, sales offices and research and development centers are located in Japan. Panasonic also operates procurement, manufacturing, logistics, sales and research and development facilities all over the world. If major disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, including those caused by climate change, wars, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other events occur, or Panasonic’s information system or communications network breaks down or operates improperly as a result of such events, Panasonic’s facilities may be seriously damaged, or the Company may have to stop or delay production and shipment. Panasonic may incur expenses relating to such damages. In addition, if an infectious disease, such as a new highly-pathogenic flu strain, becomes prevalent throughout the world, Panasonic’s manufacturing and sales may be materially disrupted. Table of Contents - 8 - Other Risks External economic conditions may adversely affect Panasonic’s pension plans Panasonic has contributory, funded benefit pension plans covering substantially all employees in Japan who meet eligibility requirements. A decline in interest rates may cause a decrease in the discount rate on benefit obligations. A decrease in the value of stocks may also affect the return on plan assets. As a result, the actuarial loss may increase, leading to an increase in future net periodic benefit costs of these pension plans. Some long-lived assets may not produce adequate returns Panasonic has many long-lived assets, such as plant, property and equipment, and goodwill, that generate returns. The Company periodically reviews the recorded value of its long-lived assets to determine if the fair value will be sufficient to support the remaining recorded asset values. If these long-lived assets do not generate sufficient cash flows, impairment losses will have to be recognized, adversely affecting Panasonic’s results of operations and financial condition. Realizability of deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions may increase Panasonic’s provision for income tax In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions based on the expected future generation of taxable income or assessed sustainability of uncertain tax positions, Panasonic considers whether it is more likely than not that any portion or all of the deferred tax assets or recognized tax position benefit will not be realized. If Panasonic determines that temporary differences and loss carryforwards or recognized tax benefits cannot be realized upon the generation of future taxable income during the deductible periods due to deteriorating business conditions or tax position benefits may not be realized upon settlement, valuation allowance against deferred tax assets or unrecognized tax benefit reserves could be recognized and Panasonic’s provision for income tax may increase. Financial results and condition of associated companies may adversely affect Panasonic’s operating results and financial condition Panasonic holds equities of several associated companies. Panasonic can exercise influence over operating and financing policies of these companies. However, Panasonic does not have the right to make decisions for them since the companies operate independently. Some companies may record losses. If these associated companies do not generate profits, Panasonic’s business results and financial condition may be adversely affected. American Depositary Share (ADS) holders have fewer rights than shareholders and may not be able to enforce judgments based on U.S. securities laws The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including exercising their voting rights, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining Panasonic’s accounting books and records, and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its nominee, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to exercise their voting rights underlying ADSs in accordance with the instructions of ADS holders and will pay the dividends and distributions collected from Panasonic. However, ADS holders will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine Panasonic’s accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. Panasonic’s shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate The customary dividend payout practice and relevant regulatory regime of publicly listed companies in Japan may differ from that followed in foreign markets. Panasonic’s dividend payout practice is no exception. While the Company regularly announces forecasts of annual and interim dividends in April or May of each year, these forecasts are not legally binding. The actual payment of annual dividends requires a resolution of its shareholders. If the shareholders adopt such a resolution, the annual dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record date, which is currently specified as March 31 by its Articles of Incorporation. However, such a resolution of the Company’s shareholders is usually made at an ordinary general meeting of shareholders held in June. The payment of interim dividends requires only a resolution of its board of directors. If the board adopts such a resolution, the dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record date, which is currently specified as September 30 by its Articles of Incorporation. However, the board usually does not adopt a resolution with respect to an interim dividend until after September 30. Shareholders of record as of an applicable record date may sell shares in the market after the record date in anticipation of receiving a certain dividend payment based on the previously announced forecasts. However, since these forecasts are not legally binding and resolutions to pay dividends are usually not adopted until after the record date, Panasonic’s shareholders of record on record dates for annual or interim dividends may not receive the dividend they anticipate. Table of Contents - 9 - 