ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, (continued) Changes in Mortality and Cremation Rates. Generally, life expectancy in the United States and other countries in which the Company’s Memorialization businesses operate has increased steadily for several decades and is expected to continue to do so in the future. The increase in life expectancy is also expected to impact the number of deaths in the future. Additionally, cremations have steadily grown as a percentage of total deaths in the United States since the 1960’s, and are expected to continue to increase in the future. The Company expects that these trends will continue in the future, and the result may affect the volume of bronze memorialization products and burial caskets sold in the United States. However, sales of the Company’s Cremation segment may benefit from the growth in cremations. Changes in Product Demand or Pricing. The Company’s businesses have and will continue to operate in competitive markets. Changes in product demand or pricing are affected by domestic and foreign competition and an increase in consolidated purchasing by large customers operating in both domestic and global markets. The Memorialization businesses generally operate in markets with ample supply capacity and demand which is correlated to death rates. The Brand Solutions businesses serve global customers that are requiring their suppliers to be global in scope and price competitive. Additionally, in recent years the Company has witnessed an increase in products manufactured offshore, primarily in China, and imported into the Company’s U.S. markets. It is expected that these trends will continue and may affect the Company’s future results of operations. Risks in Connection with Acquisitions. The Company has grown in part through acquisitions, and continues to evaluate acquisition opportunities that have the potential to support and strengthen its businesses. There is no assurance however that future acquisition opportunities will arise, or that if they do, that they will be consummated. In addition, acquisitions involve inherent risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations, or that synergies expected from the integration of the acquisitions will not be achieved as rapidly as expected, if at all. Failure to effectively integrate acquired businesses could prevent the realization of expected rates of return on the acquisition investment and could have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Technological Factors Beyond the Company’s Control. The Company operates in certain markets in which technological product development contributes to its ability to compete effectively. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop new products, that new products can be manufactured and marketed profitably, or that new products will successfully meet the expectations of customers. Changes in the Distribution of the Company’s Products or the Loss of a Large Customer. Although the Company does not have any customer that is considered individually significant to consolidated sales, it does have contracts with several large customers in both the Memorialization and Brand Solutions businesses. While these contracts provide important access to large purchasers of the Company’s products, they can obligate the Company to sell products at contracted prices for extended periods of time. Additionally, any significant divestiture of business properties or operations by current customers could result in a loss of business if the Company is not able to maintain the business with the subsequent owners of the properties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 11 