ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, (continued) might be administered or interpreted, which could have a material and negative impact on our business and our results of operation. For example, recent years have seen an increase in the development and enforcement of laws regarding trade compliance and anti-corruption, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other countries. While we maintain a variety of internal policies and controls and take steps, including periodic training and internal audits, that we believe are reasonably calculated to discourage, prevent and detect violations of such laws, we cannot guarantee that such actions will be effective or that individual employees will not engage in inappropriate behavior in contravention of our policies and instructions. Such conduct, or even the allegation thereof, could result in costly investigations and the imposition of severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. Further, we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide affecting our operations outside the United States in areas including, but not limited to, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, customs, import and export requirements, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, foreign investment, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, pensions and social insurance, employment, and environment, health, and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and expensive and requirements may differ among jurisdictions. Further, the promulgation of new laws, changing in existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may have a negative impact on our business and prospects. In addition, certain laws and regulations are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Effectiveness of our Internal Controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting, our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, and our business, financial condition, and reputation could be harmed. Compliance with Securities Laws and Regulations; Conflict Minerals Reporting. The Company is required to comply with various securities laws and regulations, including but not limited to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank"). Dodd-Frank contains provisions, among others, designed to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply chains of certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefiting armed groups ("Conflict Minerals"). While Dodd-Frank does not prohibit companies from using Conflict Minerals, the SEC mandates due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies for which conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product. Our efforts to comply with Dodd-Frank and other evolving laws, regulations and standards could result in increased costs and expenses related to compliance and potential violations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 12 