Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related to our Business Unstable market conditions could continue to materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers, tourists and real estate investors postpone or reduce spending in response to tighter credit, higher energy costs, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, interest rates, labor costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of our lenders and the inability of prospective purchasers to obtain credit to finance purchases of real property, including ownership interests in the Residences at Kapalua Bay, for example. In addition, if the current equity and credit markets further deteriorate, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. A sustained economic recession or increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price. Real estate investments are subject to numerous risks and we are negatively impacted by the downturn in the real estate market. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we develop and sell real property, primarily for residential use. Also, we have a 51% ownership interest in Bay Holdings, the owner and developer of the Residences at Kapalua Bay, a luxury community. The market for real estate on Maui tends to be highly cyclical and is typically affected by changes in general local, national and worldwide conditions, especially economic conditions, which are beyond our control, including the following: •periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as we are currently experiencing; •the general availability of mortgage financing, including: •the impact of the recent contraction in the subprime and mortgage markets generally; and •the effect of more stringent lending standards for mortgages; 8 Table of Contents •rising interest rates, which increases the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property, resulting in decreased real property values as the number of potential buyers decreases; •local, state and federal government regulation, including eminent domain laws, which may result in a taking for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth; •the popularity of Hawaii as a vacation destination; •shifts in populations away from the markets that we serve; •the relationship of the dollar to foreign currencies; •tax law changes, including potential limits or elimination of the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense, the application of the alternative minimum tax, real property taxes and employee relocation expenses; and/or •acts of God, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing a more significant general decline in the number of residential or luxury real estate sales and/or prices of the units available for sale, which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. During low periods of demand, real estate product may remain in inventory for much longer than expected or be sold at lower than expected returns, or even at a loss, which could impair our liquidity and ability to proceed with additional land development projects and negatively affect our operating results. The residential real estate market on the mainland United States and on Maui as well, is currently in a significant downturn due to the occurrence of several of the factors outlined above, such as the worldwide economic recession and the declining availability of credit, and may continue indefinitely into the future. Due to uncertainty as to when the real estate markets will rebound and our cash flow constraints, in 2008, we delayed construction of new development projects, and in 2008 and 2009 we wrote-off project costs that we do not believe can be realized. This resulted in pre-tax charges of $14.2 million in 2009 and $10.6 million in 2008. Sustained adverse changes to our development plans could result in additional impairment charges or write-offs of deferred development costs, which could continue to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the current economic environment, equity real estate investments may be difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. Because we are located in Hawaii and therefore apart from the mainland United States, we are more sensitive to certain economic factors, such as increased fuel and travel costs, which may adversely impact and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Community Development and Resort segments are dependent on attracting visitors to the Kapalua Resort, to Maui, and to the State of Hawaii as a whole. Economic factors that affect the number of visitors, their length of stay or expenditure levels will affect our financial performance. Factors such as the recent, worldwide economic recession, substantial increases in the cost of energy, including fuel costs, and events in the airline industry that reduce passenger capacity or increase traveling costs, including the cessation of operations by two airlines in 2008 that provided significant service to the Hawaiian market, could reduce the number of visitors to the Kapalua Resort and negatively affect a potential buyer's demand for our ongoing and future property developments, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the cost of energy, including fuel costs significantly increase, it is likely that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. In addition, the threat, or perceived threat, of heightened terrorist activity in the United States or other geopolitical events, or the spread of contagious diseases, such as Avian Flu or SARS, could negatively affect a potential visitor's 9 Table of Contents choice of vacation destination or second home location and as a result, have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in joint ventures and are subject to risks associated with joint venture relationships. We are involved in partnerships, joint ventures and other joint business relationships, and may initiate future joint venture projects. We currently have, among others, a 51% interest in Bay Holdings, the joint venture that constructed the Residences at Kapalua Bay, and a 16% interest in the joint venture that owns and operates the Ritz-Carlton, Kapalua hotel. A joint venture involves certain risks such as: •our actual or potential lack of voting control over the joint venture; •our inability to maintain good relationships with our joint venture partners; •a venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests that are inconsistent with ours; •a venture partner may fail to fund its share of operations and development activities, or to fulfill its other commitments, including providing accurate and timely accounting and financial information to us; and •a joint venture or venture partner could lose key personnel. In connection with our joint venture projects, we may be asked to guarantee the joint venture's obligations, or to indemnify third parties in connection with a joint venture's contractual arrangements. If we were to become obligated under such arrangement or become subject to the risks associated with joint venture relationships, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to complete land development projects within forecasted timing and budgeting, or at all, financial results may be negatively affected. We intend to develop resort and other properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project developments have a number of risks, including risks associated with: •construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; •receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; •development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; •earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that could adversely impact a project; •defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; •ability to raise capital; •governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion; and •potential lack of adequate building/construction capacity for large development projects. If any development project is not completed on time or within budget, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain required land use entitlements at reasonable costs, or at all, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our financial results are highly dependent on our Community Development segment. The financial performance of our Community Development segment is closely related to our success in obtaining land use entitlements for proposed development projects. Obtaining all of the necessary entitlements to develop a parcel of land is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. In some situations, we may be unable to obtain the necessary entitlements to proceed with a real estate development or may be required to alter our plans for the development. Delays or failures to obtain these entitlements may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we are unable to successfully compete with other developers of luxury real estate on Maui, our financial results could be materially affected. Our real estate product faces significant competition from other luxury resort real estate properties on Maui, and from other luxury resort residential property in Hawaii and the mainland United States. In many cases, our competitors are larger than us and have greater access to capital. If we are unable to compete with these larger competitors, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into limited guarantees under which we may be required to guarantee completion of the Residences at Kapalua Bay project or certain limited recourse obligations of Bay Holdings. Bay Holdings, in which we own a 51% ownership interest, constructed a new project consisting of residential development on land that it owns at the site of the former Kapalua Bay Hotel, and a spa on an adjacent parcel of land that is owned by us and leased to Bay Holdings. In connection with the construction loan agreement we, and other members of Bay Holdings, entered into a completion guaranty and a recourse guaranty. Under the completion guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to guarantee substantial completion of the project. Under the recourse guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to reimburse the lenders for losses incurred due to specified actions of Bay Holdings, including, without limitation, fraud or intentional misrepresentation, gross negligence, physical waste of project assets, and breach of certain environmental provisions of the construction loan agreement. Our guarantees do not include payment in full of the loan. If Bay Holdings fails to complete the project or takes any of the specified actions that result in expenses to the lender and which are covered by the guarantees that we entered into, we could incur unanticipated expenses that could have a material adverse effect our results of operations and financial condition. Construction of the project was completed by the end of 2009, but the completion guaranty will remain in place until all construction contracts have been fully settled and paid. We may be subject to certain environmental regulations under which we may have additional liability and experience additional costs for land development. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property we currently own or operate or that we previously owned or operated. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent its real property. 11 Table of Contents Changes in weather conditions or natural disasters could adversely impact and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could damage our resort and real estate holdings, resulting in substantial repair or replacement costs to the extent not covered by insurance, a reduction in property values, or a loss of revenue, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be affected differently by such changes in weather conditions or natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies or operations. If we are unable to find a title sponsor for the Ladies Professional Golf Association (LPGA) golf tournament that we are contractually obligated to sponsor, we may have to bear the full cost of producing the tournament. We have an agreement with the LPGA to sponsor an annual 72-hole stroke play golf tournament for five years beginning in October 2008. We were unable to find a title sponsor for the first LPGA Classic held in October 2008 and we absorbed the net cost of sponsoring the tournament of approximately $3.4 million. In June 2009, we announced that due to the lack of a title sponsor, we were unable to hold the event scheduled for October 2009, which resulted in a dispute with the LPGA. As required by our agreement with the LPGA, the dispute will be resolved by mediation and, if necessary, by binding arbitration. By agreement between the parties, mediation is suspended through October 2010 as we continue to work with the LPGA to seek a title sponsor for this event or a suitable resolution. The cost of such a tournament including the production and the purse is significant and if we must bear the full cost of producing the tournament or if we need to pay significant damages, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Risks Related to Indebtedness and Liquidity We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness and are subject to certain covenants under those agreements. Failure to satisfy covenants under these agreements could accelerate our obligations under such credit agreements, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations and ability to continue as a going concern. We had approximately $97.0 million of indebtedness as of December 31, 2009, including capital leases, consisting of a secured revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank and certain other lenders for up to $50 million, of which we had $13.5 million in availability as of December 31, 2009, a secured revolving line of credit with American AgCredit, FLCA for up to $25 million that was fully drawn as of December 31, 2009, and $40 million of senior secured convertible notes issued in July 2008. Our indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. Also, continuing to fund developments and improvements in our Resort segment and construction projects in our Community Development segment, in addition to our debt service, requires a significant amount of cash, which depends to a large extent upon our ability to generate cash from operations and our ability to borrow under our credit facilities. Each of our credit agreements with Wells Fargo Bank and American AgCredit, FLCA contain financial and other covenants that we must satisfy. Our ability to continue to borrow under our credit agreements and to fund our cash requirements depends upon our ability to comply with those covenants. If we fail to satisfy any of our covenants, the lender may elect to accelerate our payment obligations under the credit agreement. In addition, failure to satisfy any of the covenants or to otherwise default under any of our credit agreements would also cause a default under our other credit agreements and our senior secured convertible notes issued in July 2008. If we default under any of our senior secured convertible notes, the holders of such notes may require us to redeem the notes, in which case we would also be required to pay a redemption premium equal to 115% multiplied by 12 Table of Contents (i) the principal and accrued and unpaid interest under the note, or (ii) the highest closing sale price of our common stock during the period between the event of default and delivery of redemption notice multiplied by the number of shares of our common stock into which a note is then convertible. Our cash outlook for the next twelve months and our ability to continue to meet our financial covenants and to continue as a going concern is highly dependent on raising sufficient capital and selling real estate assets in a difficult market. For the year 2009, we had negative cash flows from operations of $15.9 million. As of December 31, 2009, we had borrowings outstanding, including capital leases, of $97.0 million, $1.9 million of cash and $13.5 million in unused lines of credit. In addition, we have several commitments and contingent liabilities that could result in our obligation to pay significant amounts of cash, including, without limitation, a commitment to purchase the spa, beach club improvements and the sundry store from Bay Holdings for approximately $35 million. While we are currently negotiating to restructure such commitments to avoid the need to make any current cash payments, if we are unable to restructure such commitments and they become obligations that require current funding, it is unlikely that we would have the cash resources to fulfill the obligations. Furthermore, we are the defendants in a lawsuit filed by M. Yamamura and Sons, Inc. alleging material breach of a pineapple planting agreement. Due to our current liquidity situation, a judgment against us in the Yamamura lawsuit or the LPGA dispute, could have a material negative impact on our liquidity position. Any such impact could result in our inability to maintain the minimum liquidity amount required by the debt covenants in our credit facilities. Violation of the debt covenants could result in all of our outstanding borrowings becoming immediately due. If our outstanding borrowings become due as a result of any such breach, we would not have sufficient capital to satisfy such obligations. In response to these circumstances, we are undertaking several financial and strategic initiatives to reduce cash commitments and generate cash flow from a variety of sources, including a possible equity offering and the sale of several real estate assets. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with our loan covenants, raise sufficient capital in the equity markets or sell real estate assets at acceptable prices, or at all, each of which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may need additional funds which, if available, could result in significant dilution to our stockholders, have superior rights to our common stock and contain covenants that restrict our operations. If we continue to operate unprofitably, if unanticipated contingencies arise or if we are required to retire any significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness, it will be necessary for us to raise additional capital either through public or private equity or debt financing. We believe that we will require additional capital to fund on-going operations beyond that time. We cannot say with any certainty that we will be able to obtain the additional needed funds on reasonable terms, or at all. If we were to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, our existing stockholders may suffer significant dilution. If we issued preferred equity or debt securities, these securities could have rights superior to holders of our common stock and could contain covenants that will restrict our operations. If additional funds are raised through a bank credit facility or the issuance of debt securities, the holder of such indebtedness would have rights senior to the rights of equity holders and the terms of such indebtedness could impose restrictions on our operations. 13 Table of Contents The financial markets have recently experienced significant turmoil which may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain debt financing may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders or other financial institutions suffers liquidity issues. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of the remaining available funds under our credit facilities. In addition, if we attempt to obtain future financing or refinance our existing credit facilities, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. If we are unable to borrow the full amount of available credit under our credit agreements or we are unable to obtain future financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities, our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. The convertible notes provide the holders with certain rights of redemption and, upon the occurrence of various events of default and change of control transactions, the right to require us to redeem the convertible notes for cash. We may not have the funds necessary to redeem the convertible notes for cash, or any such redemption of the convertible notes could leave us with little or no working capital for operations or capital expenditures. Beginning on July 28, 2011, the third anniversary of the closing of the sale of convertible notes, or upon a change of control transaction, each investor has the right to require us to redeem all or any portion of such investor's convertible note at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible note being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. If an investor elects to convert its convertible note in connection with a change of control, we may also have to pay a make-whole premium. In addition, the convertible notes allow each investor to require us to redeem the convertible notes upon the occurrence of various events of default. In such a situation, we may be required to redeem all or part of the convertible notes, including any accrued interest, redemption premiums and penalties. If holders of the convertible notes elect to redeem their notes or an event of default or a change of control occurs, we may be unable to repay the full redemption amount in cash. Even if we were able to prepay the full amount in cash, any such repayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our obligations under our convertible notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. Any failure to pay amounts due under the convertible notes may also constitute an event of default under the terms of our other credit facilities existing at the time. Risks Relating to our Stock Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. In 2009, the daily closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $13.67 per share to a low of $5.18 per share. From January 1, 2010 through March 1, 2010 the daily closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $5.49 to a low of $2.35. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant volatility. Among others, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, the following factors, some of which are out of our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to continue to be volatile: •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; and •comments made by securities analysts covering our stock. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by economic and other conditions on Maui in particular, or conditions in the financial markets generally. 14 Table of Contents Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2009 was approximately 25,077 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid regular cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by certain of our credit facilities, which contains restrictions prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender's prior approval. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. If we do not meet the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), our common stock may be delisted. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. On January 11, 2010 we received notification from the NYSE that we are no longer in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing standards because our average market capitalization was less than $50 million over a 30 trading-day period and our most recently reported shareholders' equity was less than $50 million. Under applicable NYSE procedures, we had 45 days from receipt of the notification to submit a plan to the NYSE to demonstrate our ability to achieve compliance with the continued listing standards within 18 months. We submitted such a plan to the NYSE on February 22, 2010 and the NYSE has until April 11, 2010 to accept or reject the plan. During this time, our common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE, subject to compliance with other NYSE continued listing requirements. However, a company is subject to delisting if average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading day period is less than $15 million, regardless of stockholders' equity or if a company's average common stock prices is less than $1.00 for more than 30 consecutive trading days. As of March 1, 2010, our closing stock price was $3.49 over the previous consecutive 30 trading-day period, and, at the same time, our average global market capitalization was approximately $29,753,000. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, in response to which, the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock. In such event, if we are unable to regain compliance with the NYSE's continued listing standards within the required time frames, our common stock would be delisted, which would violate the provisions of our $50 million line of credit and our $40 million senior secured convertible notes and could result in these debts becoming immediately due. In addition, delisting could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock, reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for us, and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future, and might negatively impact our reputation and, as a consequence, our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 