Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Dependency on certain key personnel. The Company is currently dependent upon the ability and experience of certain key management employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain their services. The Company does not currently carry key man insurance on any of these individuals, and loss of one or more could have a material adverse effect on financial results. Real estate investments are subject to numerous risks. The Company is subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because it develops and sells real property, primarily for residential use. Also, the Company has a 51% ownership interest in Kapalua Bay Holdings LLC, which owns and operates the Kapalua Bay Hotel. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decrease. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments may be difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. 9 If the Company is unable to complete land development projects within forecasted timing and budgeting, or at all, financial results may be negatively affected. The Company intends to develop resort and other properties, as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project developments have a number of risks, including risks associated with: · construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; · receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; · development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; · earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that could adversely impact a project; · defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; · ability to raise capital; · governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion; and · potential lack of adequate building/construction capacity for large development projects. If any development project is not completed on time or within budget, this could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s financial results. If the Company is unable to obtain required land use entitlements at reasonable costs, or at all, its operating results would be adversely affected. The Company’s financial results are highly dependant on its Community Development operating segment. The financial performance of our Community Development segment is closely related to the Company’s success in obtaining land use entitlements for proposed development projects. Obtaining all of the necessary entitlements to develop a parcel of land is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. In some situations, the Company may be unable to obtain the necessary entitlements to proceed with a real estate development or may be required to alter its plans for the development. Delays or failures to obtain these entitlements may have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s financial results. The historical price and market for luxury real estate on Maui has been highly cyclical and if the market demand for luxury real estate were to decrease, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected. The highs and lows in the market cycle can prevail for multiple years at a time. During low periods of demand, real estate product may remain in inventory for much longer than expected or be sold at lower than expected returns, or even at a loss, which could impair the Company’s liquidity and ability to proceed with additional land development projects and negatively affect the Company’s operating results. If the Company is unable to successfully compete with other developers of luxury real estate on Maui, its financial results could be materially affected. The Company’s real estate product faces competition from other luxury resort real estate properties on Maui, and from other luxury resort residential property in Hawaii and the mainland United States. In many cases, the Company’s competitors are larger than it is and have greater access to capital. If the 10 Company is unable to compete with these larger competitors, its financial results could be materially and adversely affected. If the Company cannot attract and retain skilled workers for its resort operations, its financial results could be negatively impacted. There is a potential lack of adequate skilled workers on Maui for larger development projects. The Company’s three golf courses require a large number of course and facility maintenance and operations workers; and the hotel and villas require housekeepers, food and beverage servers, front desk, and other operational and hospitality workers. Overall, the Company’s resort operations require a large number of workers to maintain the quality and level of service that it strives to provide to its customers. The Company’s plans for development projects require that there be adequate labor in all of the construction trades. The labor market on Maui is very competitive, with the labor premium in West Maui being even greater than elsewhere on Maui. The cost and insufficient supply of housing and the absence of adequate public services, such as schools, continue to be an impediment to attracting and retaining labor. If the Company and other Maui businesses are unable to gain approvals from the government to allow for the expansion of affordable housing and to implement plans to provide a higher level of public services, including schools, further development in West Maui could be severely restricted, which in turn could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s operations. While the Company proposes to pay its fair share for the provision of affordable housing and the construction of infrastructure, there are political factions in the County government who do not want any further development. The Company may be subject to certain environmental regulations under which it may have additional liability and experience additional costs for land development. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate the Company’s properties and could make the Company liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property it currently owns or operates or that it previously owned or operated. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether the Company knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize the Company’s ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If the Company arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, it could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if it never owned or operated that facility. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit the Company’s ability to develop, use, sell or rent its real property. The Company’s agriculture operations face significant competition from companies with greater financial resources and from foreign competition with lower cost structures. The Company sells its products in competition with both foreign and United States companies. Its principal competitors are three companies, Dole Food Company, Inc., Del Monte Food Co., and Del Monte Fresh Produce Company, each of which produce substantial quantities of pineapple products, a significant portion of which is produced in Central America and Southeast Asia. Other producers of pineapple products in Thailand and Indonesia also are a major source of competition. Producers of pineapple in foreign countries have substantially lower land, water, labor and regulatory costs than the Company. The Company’s marketing strategy is to compete based on the premium quality of our fresh pineapple product and being the only company that cans all of its pineapple in the United States. If it cannot compete 11 effectively with these larger companies and lower cost producers, its financial results could be adversely affected. Weather conditions such as drought, extreme cold and torrential rainfall can have an adverse impact on crop production. The fresh market requires steady and predictable fruit delivery. The accelerated movement of processed product inventory has reduced sales stock. Adverse weather conditions may interrupt planting, growing and crop delivery and affect operating results. The Company has diversified growing regions to Central and West Maui to mitigate some of this weather related risks. If the Company is unable to successfully compete with other producers of fresh and processed pineapple, our financial results could be materially affected. The fresh and processed pineapple markets are highly competitive. A decline in the price of pineapple or increases in the price of fuel or packaging materials could adversely affect operating results. Agricultural chemicals used in the past have resulted in contingent liabilities that could result in future claims against the Company. One customer has provided a substantial portion of the Company’s processed pineapple sales; the loss of this customer may have a material adverse effect on operating results. The United States government represented approximately 29%, 35% and 20% of the Company’s processed pineapple sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. It is difficult to predict whether the United States government will continue to represent such a significant portion of our processed pineapple sales in the future because the Company does not have a long-term contract to supply pineapple to the government. If the Company were to lose this customer, operating results would be negatively affected. Because the Company is located in Hawaii and therefore apart from the mainland United States, it is more sensitive to certain economic factors, which may adversely affect operating results. The Company’s Community Development segment and the Resort segment are dependent on attracting visitors to Kapalua and to Maui and the state of Hawaii as a whole. Economic factors that affect the number of visitors, their length of stay or expenditure levels will affect our financial performance. Factors such as the cost of energy, events in the airline industry that affect passenger capacity or traveling cost, and the threat, or perceived threat, of heightened terrorist activity in the United States, could affect a potential visitors’ choice of vacation destination or second home location. The Company’s agriculture operations are dependent on ocean shipment and airfreight to transport processed and fresh pineapple to customers in the United States. Increases in the cost of energy, and other factors that affect the cost and reliability of ocean shipment and airfreight will affect the financial results of the Company’s Agriculture segment. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 