Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of a number of significant employees, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are currently dependent upon the ability and experience of certain key management employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain their services. The loss of one or more could have a material adverse effect on financial results. Real estate investments are subject to numerous risks. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we develop and sell real property, primarily for residential use. Also, we have a 51% ownership interest in Kapalua Bay Holdings, LLC, the owner and developer of The Residences at Kapalua Bay. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decrease. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments may be difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. 9 If we are unable to complete land development projects within forecasted timing and budgeting, or at all, financial results may be negatively affected. We intend to develop resort and other properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project developments have a number of risks, including risks associated with: •construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; •receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; •development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; •earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that could adversely impact a project; •defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; •ability to raise capital; •governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion; and •potential lack of adequate building/construction capacity for large development projects. If any development project is not completed on time or within budget, this could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. If we are unable to obtain required land use entitlements at reasonable costs, or at all, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our financial results are highly dependent on our Community Development operating segment. The financial performance of our Community Development segment is closely related to our success in obtaining land use entitlements for proposed development projects. Obtaining all of the necessary entitlements to develop a parcel of land is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. In some situations, we may be unable to obtain the necessary entitlements to proceed with a real estate development or may be required to alter our plans for the development. Delays or failures to obtain these entitlements may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Legislation adopted by the County of Maui may increase land use entitlement costs, negatively impact land values, defer planned development projects, and materially impact operating results. On November 3, 2006, the Maui County Council voted unanimously to adopt a Residential Workforce Housing Policy (the "Policy"). This measure requires developers to sell or rent 40% to 50% of the total number of units in developments of five or more units at below market rates, or pay significant fees or contribute property with equivalent value to Maui County for low income housing. Prior to the adoption of the Policy, the affordable housing component of a development typically represented 15% to 25% of total units. We believe that the new Policy could significantly impact our cost of obtaining entitlements, increase our financing costs, potentially reduce the value of our land, and delay the development of units across all market segments. The historical price and market for luxury real estate on Maui has been highly cyclical and if the market demand for luxury real estate were to decrease, our operating results could be adversely affected. The highs and lows in the real estate market cycle can prevail for multiple years at a time. During low periods of demand, real estate product may remain in inventory for much longer than expected or 10 be sold at lower than expected returns, or even at a loss, which could impair our liquidity and ability to proceed with additional land development projects and negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to successfully compete with other developers of luxury real estate on Maui, our financial results could be materially affected. Our real estate product faces competition from other luxury resort real estate properties on Maui, and from other luxury resort residential property in Hawaii and the mainland United States. In many cases, our competitors are larger than us and have greater access to capital. If we are unable to compete with these larger competitors, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into limited guarantees under which we may be required to guarantee completion of the Kapalua Bay project or certain limited recourse obligations of Kapalua Bay. Kapalua Bay, a wholly owned subsidiary of Bay Holdings in which we own a 51% ownership interest, entered into a construction loan agreement with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Lehman") on July 14, 2006, pursuant to which Lehman may loan Kapalua Bay up to $370 million. Kapalua Bay is constructing a new project consisting of residential development on land that it owns at the site of the former Kapalua Bay Hotel, and a spa on an adjacent parcel of land that is owned by us and leased to Kapalua Bay. In connection with entering into the construction loan agreement by Kapalua Bay, we, and other members of Bay Holdings, entered into a completion guaranty and a recourse guaranty. Under the completion guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to guarantee substantial completion of the project and to reimburse Lehman for expenses incurred by Lehman toward completion of the project. Under the recourse guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to reimburse Lehman for losses incurred by Lehman due to specified actions of Bay Holdings, including, without limitation, fraud or intentional misrepresentation, gross negligence, physical waste of project assets, and breach of certain environmental provisions of the construction loan agreement. Our guarantees do not include payment in full of the loan. If Kapalua Bay fails to complete the project or takes any of the specified actions that result in expenses to Lehman and which are covered by the guarantees that we entered into, we could incur unanticipated expenses that could have a material adverse effect our results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot attract and retain skilled workers for our resort operations, and Community Development teams, our financial results could be negatively impacted. There is a potential lack of adequate skilled workers on Maui for larger development projects. Our golf courses require a large number of course and facility maintenance and operations workers and the hotel and villas require housekeepers, food and beverage servers, front desk, and other operational and hospitality workers. Overall, our resort operations require a large number of workers to maintain the quality and level of service that we strive to provide to our guests. Our plans for development projects require that there be adequate labor in all of the construction trades. The labor market on Maui is very competitive, with the labor premium in West Maui being even greater than elsewhere on Maui. The cost and insufficient supply of housing and the absence of adequate public services, such as schools, continue to be an impediment to attracting and retaining labor. If we and other Maui businesses are unable to gain approvals from the government to allow for the expansion of affordable housing and to implement plans to provide a higher level of public services, including schools, further development in West Maui could be severely restricted, which in turn could have a materially adverse effect on our operations. While we support the development of affordable housing for our employees and public servants, and the construction of infrastructure, there are political factions in the County government who do not want any further development. 11 We may be subject to certain environmental regulations under which we may have additional liability and experience additional costs for land development. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property we currently own or operate or that we previously owned or operated. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent its real property. Our agriculture operations face significant competition from companies with greater financial resources and from foreign competition with lower cost structures. We sell our pineapple products in competition with both foreign and United States companies. Our principal competitors are Dole Food Company, Inc. and Del Monte Fresh Produce Company, each of which produces substantial quantities of pineapple products, a significant portion of which is produced in Central America. Producers of pineapple in foreign countries have substantially lower land, water, labor, and regulatory costs than we do. Changes in weather conditions or natural disasters can have an adverse impact on crop production and materially affect our results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, droughts, extreme cold or pestilence, may affect the planting, growing and delivery of crops, reduce sales stock, interrupt distribution, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be affected differently by such weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies or operations. If we are unable to successfully compete with other producers of fresh pineapple products, our financial results could be materially affected. The fresh pineapple products markets are highly competitive. A decline in the price of pineapple or increases in the price of fuel or packaging materials could adversely affect operating results. Agricultural chemicals used in the past have resulted in contingent liabilities that could result in future claims against us, which could affect our ability to compete with other producers. We are highly dependent on the success of our consignment arrangement to sell our fresh pineapple. In November 2007, we entered into an exclusive consignment and marketing agreement with a third party to sell our Maui Gold® pineapple in North America. We anticipate that a significant portion of our fresh pineapple will be sold through this arrangement. Failure for any reason of the consignee to fulfill its obligations under the applicable arrangement with us could result in disruptions to our supply of Maui Gold® pineapple in North America, and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that a new arrangement would be available on similar terms as the existing consignment and marketing arrangement, if at all. 12 If we are unable to find a title sponsor for the LPGA golf tournament that we are contractually obligated to sponsor in October 2008, we may have to bear the full cost of producing the tournament. We have an agreement with the LPGA to sponsor an annual 72-hole stroke play golf tournament for five years beginning in October 2008, and we are currently seeking a company or companies that would be suitable as a title sponsor for this event. The cost of such a tournament including the production and the purse is significant and if we bear the full cost of producing the tournament, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Our ability to competitively serve our customers depends on the availability of reliable and low-cost transportation, and any increases in transportation-related costs could have material adverse impact on our results of operations. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market, including by airplanes, ships, railcars and trucks. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor shortages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Because we are located in Hawaii and therefore apart from the mainland United States, we are more sensitive to certain economic factors, which may adversely affect operating results. Our Community Development segment and the Resort segment are dependent on attracting visitors to Kapalua, to Maui, and the state of Hawaii as a whole. Economic factors that affect the number of visitors, their length of stay or expenditure levels will affect our financial performance. Factors such as the cost of energy, events in the airline industry that affect passenger capacity or traveling cost, and the threat, or perceived threat, of heightened terrorist activity in the United States, could affect a potential visitor's choice of vacation destination or second home location. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 