Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the SEC. Risks Related to our Business Unstable macroeconomic market conditions could continue to materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk to our business as consumers, tourists and real estate investors postpone or reduce spending in response to tighter credit markets, higher energy costs, negative financial news, reduced consumer confidence, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, interest rates, labor costs, access to credit on reasonable terms, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, although economic conditions appear to be improving, if the current equity and credit markets do not continue to improve or further deteriorate, or if our expenses increase unexpectedly, it may become necessary for us to raise additional capital in the form of a debt or equity financing, or a combination of the two. If economic conditions do not improve, it could make any debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and, in the case of an equity financing, more dilutive to our existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our current business strategy, as well as our financial performance and stock price. Real estate investments are subject to numerous risks and we are negatively impacted by the downturns in the real estate market. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we develop and sell real property, primarily for residential use. We have a 51% ownership interest in Bay Holdings, the owner and developer of the Residences at Kapalua Bay, a luxury residential community. The market for real estate on Maui and in Hawaii generally tends to be highly cyclical and is typically affected by numerous changes in local, national and worldwide conditions, especially economic conditions, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •periods of economic uncertainty and weakness in Hawaii and in the United States generally; •continuing high unemployment rates and low consumer confidence; •the current sovereign debt crises affecting several countries in the European Union and concerns about sovereign debt of the United States; •the general availability of mortgage financing, including the effect of more stringent lending standards for mortgages and perceived or actual changes in interest rates; •increased energy costs, including fuel costs, which could impact the cost and desirability of traveling to Hawaii; 7 Table of Contents •local, state and federal government regulation, including eminent domain laws, which may result in a taking for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth; •the popularity of Maui in particular and Hawaii in general as a vacation destination or second home market; •the relationship of the dollar to foreign currencies; •tax law changes, including potential limits or elimination of the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense, the application of the alternative minimum tax, real property taxes and employee relocation expenses; and/or •acts of God, such as tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Changes in any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing a more significant general decline in the number of residential or luxury real estate sales and/or prices of the units available for sale, which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. During low periods of demand, real estate product may remain in inventory for much longer than expected or be sold at lower than expected returns, or even at a loss, which could impair our liquidity and ability to proceed with additional land development projects and negatively affect our operating results. Sustained adverse changes to our development plans could result in additional impairment charges or write-offs of deferred development costs, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the current economic environment, equity real estate investments may be difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. Because we are located in Hawaii and therefore apart from the mainland United States, our financial results are more sensitive to certain economic factors, such as spending on tourism and increased fuel and travel costs, which may adversely impact and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are dependent on attracting visitors to the Kapalua Resort, to Maui, and to the State of Hawaii as a whole. Economic factors that affect the number of visitors, their length of stay or expenditure levels will affect our financial performance. Factors such as the continuing worldwide economic uncertainty and weakness, continuing high unemployment rates in Hawaii and the mainland United States, natural disasters such as the recent tsunami in Japan, substantial increases in the cost of energy, including fuel costs, and events in the airline industry that may reduce passenger capacity or increase traveling costs could reduce the number of visitors to the Kapalua Resort and negatively affect a potential buyer's demand for our ongoing and future property developments, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the threat, or perceived threat, of heightened terrorist activity in the United States or other geopolitical events, or the spread of contagious diseases could negatively affect a potential visitor's choice of vacation destination or second home location and as a result, have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in joint ventures and are subject to risks associated with joint venture relationships. We are involved in partnerships, joint ventures and other joint business relationships, and may initiate future joint venture projects. We currently have a 51% interest in Bay Holdings, the joint venture that constructed the Residences at Kapalua Bay. A joint venture involves certain risks such as: •our actual or potential lack of voting control over the joint venture; •our ability to maintain good relationships with our joint venture partners; 8 Table of Contents •a venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests that are inconsistent with ours, especially in light of the ongoing economic uncertainty and weakness; •a venture partner may fail to fund its share of operations and development activities, or to fulfill its other commitments, including providing accurate and timely accounting and financial information to us; and •a joint venture or venture partner could lose key personnel. In connection with our joint venture projects, we may be asked to guarantee the joint venture's obligations, or to indemnify third parties in connection with a joint venture's contractual arrangements. If we were to become obligated under such arrangement or become subject to the risks associated with joint venture relationships, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have purchase obligations related to the amenities at the Residences at Kapalua Bay project and have entered into limited guarantees for completion of the project and certain limited recourse obligations of Bay Holdings. Bay Holdings, in which we own a 51% ownership interest, constructed a new project consisting of residential development on land that it owns at the site of the former Kapalua Bay Hotel, and a spa on an adjacent parcel of land that is owned by us and leased to Bay Holdings. In connection with the construction loan agreement, we and other members of Bay Holdings, entered into a completion guaranty and a recourse guaranty. Under the completion guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to guarantee substantial completion of the project. Under the recourse guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to reimburse the lenders for losses incurred due to specified actions of Bay Holdings, including, without limitation, fraud or intentional misrepresentation, gross negligence, physical waste of project assets, and breach of certain environmental provisions of the construction loan agreement. Our guarantees do not include payment in full of the loan. Construction of the project was completed by the end of 2009, but the completion guaranty will remain in place until all construction contracts have been fully settled and paid. Pursuant to a previous agreement, we have a commitment to purchase the spa, beach club improvements and the sundry store (the "Amenities") from Bay Holdings at the actual construction cost of approximately $35 million. As of December 31, 2011, we have recorded an estimated liability under the completion and recourse guarantees of $4.1 million, and we and the other members of Bay Holdings are working with the lenders to settle the terms of the loan agreement and the purchase and payment terms of the Amenities. If we are unable to complete land development projects within forecasted time and budget expectations, if at all, our financial results may be negatively affected. We intend to develop resort and other properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project developments have a number of risks, including risks associated with: •construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; •receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; •development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; •earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that could adversely impact a project; •defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; 9 Table of Contents •ability to raise capital; •impact of governmental assessments such as park fees or affordable housing requirements; •governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion; and •the potential lack of adequate building/construction capacity for large development projects. If any development project is not completed on time or within budget, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we are unable to obtain required land use entitlements at reasonable costs, or at all, our operating results would be adversely affected. The financial performance of our Real Estate segment is closely related to our success in obtaining land use entitlements for proposed development projects. Obtaining all of the necessary entitlements to develop a parcel of land is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. In some situations, we may be unable to obtain the necessary entitlements to proceed with a real estate development or may be required to alter our plans for the development. Delays or failures to obtain these entitlements may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we are unable to successfully compete with other developers of real estate in Maui, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our real estate products face significant competition from other luxury resort real estate properties on Maui, and from other residential property in Hawaii and the mainland United States. In many cases, our competitors are larger than us and have greater access to capital. If we are unable to compete with these competitors, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to certain environmental regulations under which we may have additional liability and experience additional costs for land development. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property we currently own or operate or that we previously owned or operated. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent our real property. Changes in weather conditions or natural disasters could adversely impact and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could damage our resort and real estate holdings, resulting in substantial repair or replacement costs to the extent not covered by insurance, a reduction in property values, or a loss of revenue, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be affected differently by such changes in weather conditions or natural disasters depending on the location of their assets or operations. 10 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of our trademarks could negatively impact our businesses. We have several trademarks that we have registered in the United States and in several foreign countries. To the extent that our exclusive use of these trademarks is challenged, we intend to vigorously defend our rights. If we are not successful in defending our rights, our businesses could be adversely impacted. Market volatility of asset values and interest rates affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and could, under certain circumstances, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. No additional benefits are accruing for participants in the defined benefit pension plans, however, the funded status for these plans as of December 31, 2011 is a liability of approximately $28 million. Contributions to our defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately $2.5 million in 2012. Changes in interest rates and the fair value of the plan assets drive the annual funding short-fall or gain and affect the minimum cash contributions that must be paid to the plans. Therefore, under certain circumstances, changes in asset values or interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to Indebtedness and Liquidity We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness and are subject to certain covenants under those agreements. Failure to satisfy covenants under these agreements could accelerate our obligations under such credit agreements, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations and ability to continue as a going concern. We had approximately $45.5 million of indebtedness as of December 31, 2011, consisting of a secured revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo for up to $34.5 million, of which we had $12.9 million in availability as of December 31, 2011 and a secured term loan with American AgCredit for $24.4 million. Our indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. The line of credit and term loan were amended in 2011 to extend the maturity date of such obligations to May 1, 2013. In connection with such amendments, we granted a security interest in additional real estate assets to the lenders. As a result, substantially all of our real estate assets are encumbered, which limits our ability to borrow additional funds. Each of the line of credit and the term loan agreements contain financial and other covenants that we must satisfy. Our ability to continue to borrow under these agreements and to fund our cash requirements depends upon our ability to comply with those covenants. If we fail to satisfy any of our covenants, each lender may elect to accelerate our payment obligations under such lender's credit agreement. Our cash outlook for the next twelve months and our ability to continue to meet our financial covenants and to continue as a going concern is highly dependent on successfully implementing our financial initiatives and selling real estate assets in a difficult market. In 2011, we had negative cash flows from operations and at December 31, 2011, we had borrowings outstanding of $45.5 million. Our cash outlook for the next twelve months and our ability to continue to meet our financial covenants is highly dependent on selling certain real estate assets in a difficult market. If we are unable to meet our financial covenants resulting in our borrowings becoming immediately due, we would not have sufficient liquidity to repay such outstanding borrowings. In addition, we are subject to several commitments and contingencies that could negatively impact our 11 Table of Contents future cash flows, including purchase commitments related to our investment in Bay Holdings, a U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) matter related to our discontinued agricultural operations, and funding requirements related to our defined benefit pension plans. In response to these circumstances, we are undertaking several financial initiatives to reduce cash commitments, to generate cash flow and further reduce our debt, to sell real estate assets and adopt further cost reduction measures. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with our loan covenants, reduce costs, or sell real estate assets at acceptable prices, or at all, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In connection with the sale of any real property, our credit agreements require us to pay a portion of the proceeds received from any such sale to our lenders as mandatory principal payments. The amount of proceeds paid to our lenders will reduce net proceeds from any such sale and negatively impact our cash flow. Risks Relating to our Stock Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. In 2011, the daily closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $7.40 per share to a low of $3.68 per share. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant volatility. Among others, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, the following factors, some of which are out of our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to continue to be volatile: •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; and •comments made by securities analysts covering our stock. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by economic and other conditions in Maui in particular, or conditions in the financial markets generally. Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately 12,766 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid regular cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by certain of our credit facilities, which contains covenants prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender's prior approval. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 