Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related to our Business Risks Relating to our Community Development and Resort Segments Unstable market conditions could continue to materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers, tourists and real estate investors postpone or reduce spending in response to tighter credit, higher energy costs, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Other factors that could influence demand include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of our lenders and the inability of prospective purchasers to obtain credit to finance purchases of real property, including ownership interests in the Residences at Kapalua Bay, for example. In addition, if the current equity and credit markets further deteriorate, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current and anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months, a sustained economic recession or increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price. Real estate investments are subject to numerous risks and we are negatively impacted by the downturn in the real estate market. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we develop and sell real property, primarily for residential use. Also, we have a 51% ownership interest in Bay Holdings, the owner and developer of the Residences at Kapalua Bay, a luxury community. The market for real estate on Maui tends to be highly cyclical and is typically affected by changes in general local, national and worldwide conditions, especially economic conditions, which are beyond our control, including the following: •periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as we are currently experiencing; 10 Table of Contents •the general availability of mortgage financing, including: •the impact of the recent contraction in the subprime and mortgage markets generally; and •the effect of more stringent lending standards for mortgages; •rising interest rates, which increases the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property, resulting in decreased real property values as the number of potential buyers decreases; •local, state and federal government regulation, including eminent domain laws, which may result in a taking for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth; •the popularity of Hawaii as a vacation destination; •shifts in populations away from the markets that we serve; •the relationship of the dollar to foreign currencies; •tax law changes, including potential limits or elimination of the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense, the application of the alternative minimum tax, real property taxes and employee relocation expenses; and/or •acts of God, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing a more significant general decline in the number of residential or luxury real estate sales and/or prices of the units available for sale, which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. During low periods of demand, real estate product may remain in inventory for much longer than expected or be sold at lower than expected returns, or even at a loss, which could impair our liquidity and ability to proceed with additional land development projects and negatively affect our operating results. The residential real estate market on the mainland United States and on Maui as well, is currently in a significant downturn due to the occurrence of several of the factors outlined above, such as the worldwide economic recession and the declining availability of credit, and may continue indefinitely into the future. Due to uncertainty as to when the real estate markets will rebound and our cash flow constraints, we have delayed construction of new development projects, other than the Residences at Kapalua Bay project, and have written off project costs that we do not believe can be realized. This resulted in a total pre-tax charge of $10.6 million in 2008. Sustained adverse changes to our development plans could result in additional impairment charges or write-offs of deferred development costs, which could continue to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the current economic environment, equity real estate investments may be difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. The current economic environment and the more limited availability of credit may increase the possibility of default on sales at the Residences at Kapalua Bay project which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently have pre-sales totaling approximately $314 million that are secured by non-refundable deposits ranging from approximately 10% for fractional ownership interests and up to 20% for whole-ownership purchases. The project is comprised of six residential buildings that as of December 31, 2008 ranged from 83% to 98% complete. Although the deposits we have collected are substantial, the current uncertainty in the national and world economies and the continuing turmoil in the financial and credit markets increases the possibility that purchasers who have entered into agreements to purchase property may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, notwithstanding our receipt of nonrefundable deposits. As a result of such uncertainty, Bay Holdings has significantly increased the allowance for 11 Table of Contents default reserves and we recorded equity in losses from affiliates from this joint venture of $7.5 million in the fourth quarter. The increased allowance is based on our prior experience and current information available to us to cover potential defaults on the purchase of fractional and whole-ownership units. While the reserves for defaults are based on the best knowledge that we have to date, there is no certainty as to whether the reserves are sufficient or in excess of the actual cancellations that we will experience. Although the impact to our results of operations from defaults will be offset by forfeited deposits, any such defaults may affect the timing and success of the project and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we are located in Hawaii and therefore apart from the mainland United States, we are more sensitive to certain economic factors, such as increased fuel and travel costs, which may adversely impact and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Community Development and Resort segments are dependent on attracting visitors to the Kapalua Resort, to Maui, and the State of Hawaii as a whole. Economic factors that affect the number of visitors, their length of stay or expenditure levels will affect our financial performance. Factors such as the recent, worldwide economic recession, substantial increases in the cost of energy, including fuel costs, and events in the airline industry that reduce passenger capacity or increase traveling costs, including the recent cessation of operations of two airlines that provided significant service to the Hawaiian market, could reduce the number of visitors to the Kapalua Resort and negatively affect a potential buyer's demand for our ongoing and future property developments, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the cost of energy, including fuel costs, continue to increase at the rate and at the pace as they recently have, it is likely that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. In addition, the threat, or perceived threat, of heightened terrorist activity in the United States or other geopolitical events, or the spread of contagious diseases, such as Avian Flu or SARS, could negatively affect a potential visitor's choice of vacation destination or second home location and as a result, have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A reduction in the value of our investment in Bay Holdings would require us to reduce the value of this investment on our balance sheet, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The carrying value of Bay Holdings on our balance sheet at December 31, 2008 is $41.7 million. We have made total cash contributions to Bay Holdings of $53.2 million. We also made a loan to Bay Holdings of $3.6 million in October 2008. Factors such as increases in costs because of significantly higher interest rates related to construction financing, significant lag in sales resulting in higher inventory carrying costs to the joint venture, or other possible events could result in a reduction of the value of the investment that we currently have on our balance sheet, and would require a write down of our carrying value of this investment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $37.8 million related to our investment in the joint venture because of the increased cost from the restructured financing arrangements and prospective slower than expected sell out of the project. We are involved in joint ventures and are subject to risks associated with joint venture relationships. We are involved in partnerships, joint ventures and other joint business structures relationships, and may initiate future joint venture projects. We currently have, among others, a 51% interest in Bay Holdings, the joint venture that is constructing the Residences at Kapalua Bay, and a 16% interest in the joint venture that owns and operates the Ritz-Carlton, Kapalua hotel. 12 Table of Contents A joint venture involves certain risks such as: •our actual or potential lack of voting control over the joint venture; •our inability to maintain good relationships with our joint venture partners; •a venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests that are inconsistent with ours; •a venture partner may fail to fund its share of operations and development activities, or to fulfill its other commitments, including providing accurate and timely accounting and financial information to us; and •a joint venture or venture partner could lose key personnel. In connection with our joint venture projects, we may be asked to guarantee the joint venture's obligations, or to indemnify third parties in connection with a joint venture's contractual arrangements. If we were to become obligated under such arrangement or become subject to the risks associated with joint venture relationships, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to complete land development projects within forecasted timing and budgeting, or at all, financial results may be negatively affected. We intend to develop resort and other properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project developments have a number of risks, including risks associated with: •construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; •receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; •development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; •earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that could adversely impact a project; •defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; •ability to raise capital; •governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion; and •potential lack of adequate building/construction capacity for large development projects. If any development project is not completed on time or within budget, this could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. If we are unable to obtain required land use entitlements at reasonable costs, or at all, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our financial results are highly dependent on our Community Development segment. The financial performance of our Community Development segment is closely related to our success in obtaining land use entitlements for proposed development projects. Obtaining all of the necessary entitlements to develop a parcel of land is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. In some situations, we may be unable to obtain the necessary entitlements to proceed with a real estate development or may be required to alter our plans for the development. Delays or failures to obtain these entitlements may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully compete with other developers of luxury real estate on Maui, our financial results could be materially affected. Our real estate product faces significant competition from other luxury resort real estate properties on Maui, and from other luxury resort residential property in Hawaii and the mainland United States. In many cases, our competitors are larger than us and have greater access to capital. If we are unable to compete with these larger competitors, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into limited guarantees under which we may be required to guarantee completion of the Residences at Kapalua Bay project or certain limited recourse obligations of Bay Holdings. Bay Holdings, in which we own a 51% ownership interest, is constructing a new project consisting of residential development on land that it owns at the site of the former Kapalua Bay Hotel, and a spa on an adjacent parcel of land that is owned by us and leased to Bay Holdings. In connection with the construction loan agreement we, and other members of Bay Holdings, entered into a completion guaranty and a recourse guaranty. Under the completion guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to guarantee substantial completion of the project. Under the recourse guaranty, members of Bay Holdings agreed to reimburse the lenders for losses incurred due to specified actions of Bay Holdings, including, without limitation, fraud or intentional misrepresentation, gross negligence, physical waste of project assets, and breach of certain environmental provisions of the construction loan agreement. Our guarantees do not include payment in full of the loan. If Bay Holdings fails to complete the project or takes any of the specified actions that result in expenses to the lender and which are covered by the guarantees that we entered into, we could incur unanticipated expenses that could have a material adverse effect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to certain environmental regulations under which we may have additional liability and experience additional costs for land development. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property we currently own or operate or that we previously owned or operated. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent its real property. Risks Relating to our Agriculture Segment Our agriculture operations face significant competition from companies with greater financial resources and from foreign competition with lower cost structures. We sell our pineapple products in competition with both foreign and United States companies. Our principal competitors are Dole Food Company, Inc. and Del Monte Fresh Produce Company, each of which produces substantial quantities of pineapple products, a significant portion of which is produced in Central America. Producers of pineapple in foreign countries have substantially lower land, water, labor, and regulatory costs than we do, which affects our ability to compete with other producers and thus could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully compete with other producers of fresh pineapple products, our financial results could be materially affected. In addition, a decline in the price of pineapple or increases in the price of fuel or packaging materials could adversely affect operating results and our ability to compete. Furthermore, agricultural chemicals used by us in the past have resulted in contingent liabilities that could result in future claims against us, which could affect our ability to compete with other producers. We are highly dependent on the success of our consignment arrangement to sell our fresh pineapple. In November 2007, we entered into an exclusive consignment and marketing agreement with a third party to sell our Maui Gold® pineapple in North America. A significant portion of our fresh pineapple is sold through this arrangement. Failure for any reason of the consignee to fulfill its obligations under the applicable arrangement with us could result in disruptions to our supply of Maui Gold® pineapple in North America, and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that a new arrangement would be available on similar terms as the existing consignment and marketing arrangement, if at all. Our ability to competitively serve our customers depends on the availability of reliable and low-cost transportation, and any increases in transportation- related costs could have material adverse impact on our results of operations. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market, including by airplanes, ships, railcars and trucks. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor shortages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Other Risks Changes in weather conditions or natural disasters could adversely impact and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, droughts, extreme cold or pestilence, may affect the planting, growing and delivery of crops, reduce sales stock, interrupt distribution of our products, and have a material adverse impact on our Agriculture segment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could also damage our resort and real estate holdings, resulting in substantial repair or replacement costs to the extent not covered by insurance, a reduction in property values, or a loss of revenue, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be affected differently by such changes in weather conditions or natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies or operations. If we are unable to find a title sponsor for the LPGA golf tournament that we are contractually obligated to sponsor, we may have to bear the full cost of producing the tournament. We have an agreement with the LPGA to sponsor an annual 72-hole stroke play golf tournament for five years beginning in October 2008. We were unable to find a title sponsor for the first LPGA Classic in October 2008 and we absorbed the net cost of approximately $3.4 million. We continue to seek a company or companies that would be suitable as a title sponsor for this event. The cost of such a tournament including the production and the purse is significant and if we continue to bear the full cost of producing the tournament, our results of operations could be negatively affected. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Indebtedness Risk Factors We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness and are subject to certain covenants under those agreements. Failure to satisfy covenants under these agreements could accelerate our obligations under such credit agreements, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations and ability to continue as a going concern. We had approximately $137 million of indebtedness as of December 31, 2008, including capital leases, consisting of a secured revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank and certain other lenders for up to $90 million that was scheduled to mature in November 2009, of which we had $11.7 million in availability as of December 31, 2008, a secured revolving line of credit with American AgCredit, FLCA for up to $25 million that was fully drawn as of December 31, 2008, and $40 million of senior secured convertible notes issued in July 2008. Our indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. Also, continuing to fund developments and improvements in our Resort segment and construction projects in our Community Development segment, in addition to our debt service, requires a significant amount of cash, which depends to a large extent upon our ability to generate cash from operations and our ability to borrow under our credit facilities. Each of our credit agreements with Wells Fargo Bank and American AgCredit, FLCA contain financial and other covenants that we must satisfy. Our ability to continue to borrow under our credit agreements and to fund our cash requirements depends upon our ability to comply with those covenants. If we fail to satisfy any of our covenants, the lender may elect to accelerate our payment obligations under the credit agreement. In addition, failure to satisfy any of the covenants or to otherwise default under any of our credit agreements would also cause a default under our other credit agreements and our senior secured convertible notes issued in July 2008. If we default under any of our senior secured convertible notes, the holders of such notes may require us to redeem the notes, in which case we would also be required to pay a redemption premium equal to 115% multiplied by (i) the principal and accrued and unpaid interest under the note, or (ii) the highest closing sale price of our common stock during the period between the event of default and delivery of redemption notice multiplied by the number of shares of our common stock into which a note is then convertible. In March 2009, we amended our credit agreements in order to be in compliance with all covenants effective December 31, 2008. Also in March 2009, we sold the PGC for $50 million (see note 21 to consolidated financial statements), which was included in the collateral securing the line of credit agreement. In consideration for release of the PGC from the collateral, $45 million of the sales proceeds were applied to partially repay outstanding borrowings and the credit limit under this facility was reduced to $45 million. In conjunction with the PGC sale, we amended our line of credit agreement to extend the maturity date to March 2010 and eliminated all financial covenants, except for a minimum liquidity requirement and limitations on new indebtedness. The financial covenants in our $25 million revolving loan agreement were eliminated through 2009, and a minimum liquidity requirement and limitations on new indebtedness were imposed, and the maturity of this loan was accelerated to March 2010 (previously June 2011). As a result of these amendments, $57.8 million of the remaining outstanding borrowings as of March 30, 2009 will become due in March 2010. We are currently in discussions with both lenders to additionally restructure our line of credit and revolving loan agreements to extend the maturity dates beyond 2010, and to increase the amounts available under the line of credit agreement based, in part, on a re-appraisal of the properties securing the line of credit and by providing additional properties as collateral under the agreement. We also plan to sell selected real estate assets in 2009 to provide additional liquidity. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or raise equity capital on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, the timing 16 Table of Contents of our real estate asset sales may not enable us to maximize the value of such assets. We also may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations if they are accelerated due to an event of default. The failure to satisfy covenants, refinance, raise capital or sell assets, if required, sufficient to meet our debt obligations as they become due would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. See Note 5 to consolidated financial statements. Available credit under each of our revolving credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining a specified percentage of the amount of the loan relative to the value of the property securing the loan and any reduction in the appraised value of such property could reduce our borrowing capacity. Each of our credit agreements with Wells Fargo Bank and American AgCredit, FLCA limits the aggregate amount or our borrowings under such agreements to fifty percent of the value of the property securing each loan. In connection with amending each of our credit agreements effective as of December 31, 2008, each of the lenders will be obtaining an appraisal of the property securing the lines of credit. If the principal amount outstanding under each credit agreement exceeds the specified loan-to-value percentage, we will be required to immediately make a principal payment to the lender in an amount necessary to meet the specified loan-to-value percentage or to provide the lender with additional collateral required to meet the specified loan-to-value percentage. If the loan-to-value percentage is not satisfied and we do not provide additional collateral, the new credit limit under the applicable credit agreement will be reduced. There is no assurance that the value of the appraisals will result in property values necessary to maintain current availability under our credit facilities. Further, if the amount of our borrowing capacity under our credit facilities is reduced, we may not have sufficient capital to fund operating expenses and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The financial markets have recently experienced significant turmoil which may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain debt financing may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders or other financial institutions suffers liquidity issues. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of the remaining available funds under our credit facilities. In addition, if we attempt to obtain future financing or refinance our existing credit facilities, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. If we are unable to borrow the full amount of available credit under our credit agreements or we are unable to obtain future financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities, our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. The number of shares registered for resale pursuant to an effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 is significant in relation to our outstanding shares and trading volume and sales of substantial amounts of our common stock may adversely affect our market price. On July 27, 2008, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with certain institutional accredited investors (the "investors"), to sell and issue to the investors in reliance on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act an aggregate of $40,000,000 in principal amount of our senior secured convertible notes (the "convertible notes"), bearing 5.875% interest per annum payable quarterly in cash in arrears beginning October 15, 2008. The financing closed on July 28, 2008. As of December 31, 2008 we had 8,142,293 shares of common stock outstanding and our average weekly trading volume during the four full weeks prior to December 31, 2008 was 22,500 shares. The convertible notes are convertible at the option of the holders into 1,194,030 shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $33.50 per share. We filed a registration statement with the SEC for the public resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on October 24, 2008. Accordingly, so long as the registration statement remains effective, the common stock issued upon conversion of the convertible notes will be freely 17 Table of Contents tradable in the public markets without restriction and sales of a substantial number of shares could occur at any time during such period. Such sales may adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the convertible notes could be used to satisfy short positions, and anticipated conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. The conversion price of the convertible notes is subject to adjustment and, if adjusted, will result in dilution to our existing holders of common stock. The convertible notes are convertible, at any time following their issuance, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $33.50 per share, which is equal to an initial conversion rate of 29.8507 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the convertible notes, or 1,194,030 shares in the aggregate, assuming payment in cash of all interest payments. The conversion price is subject to (i) standard weighted-average anti-dilution protection, and (ii) to an automatic reset 18 months following the closing of the sale of convertible notes at the lower of the then current conversion price and 115% of the closing bid price of our common stock as reported on the NYSE on the adjustment date, provided, that, with respect to the reset adjustment, in no event shall the conversion price be reset below $30.00 per share. If the conversion price is reduced, the convertible notes will be convertible into additional shares of our common stock without the payment of any additional consideration, resulting in dilution to our then existing holders of common stock. There can be no assurance that an event that results in a reduction of the conversion price will not occur. The convertible notes provide the holders with certain rights of redemption and, upon the occurrence of various events of default and change of control transactions, the right to require us to redeem the convertible notes for cash. We may not have the funds necessary to redeem the convertible notes for cash, or any such redemption of the convertible notes could leave us with little or no working capital for operations or capital expenditures. On the third anniversary of the closing of the sale of convertible notes, or upon a change of control transaction, each investor has the right to require us to redeem all or any portion of such investor's convertible note at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible note being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. If an investor elects to convert its convertible note in connection with a change of control, we may also have to pay a make-whole premium. In addition, the convertible notes allow each investor to require us to redeem the convertible notes upon the occurrence of various events of default. In such a situation, we may be required to redeem all or part of the convertible notes, including any accrued interest, redemption premiums and penalties. If holders of the convertible notes elect to redeem their notes or an event of default or a change of control occurs, we may be unable to repay the full redemption amount in cash. Even if we were able to prepay the full amount in cash, any such repayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our obligations under our convertible notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. Any failure to pay amounts due under the convertible notes may also constitute an event of default under the terms of our other credit facilities existing at the time. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Stock Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. In 2008, the daily closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $34.25 per share to a low of $7.50 per share. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility. Among others, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, the following factors, some of which are out of our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to continue to be volatile: •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; and •comments made by securities analysts covering our stock. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by economic and other conditions on Maui in particular, or conditions in the financial markets generally. Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately 16,500 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid regular cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by certain of our credit facilities, which contains restrictions prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender's prior approval. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. If we do not meet the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), our common stock may be delisted. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. To remain so listed, NYSE rules require, among other things, that the minimum listing price of our common stock not be less than $1.00 for more than 30 consecutive trading days, and that our average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period be not less than $75 million and, at the same time, our total stockholders' equity be not less than $75 million. However, a company is subject to delisting if average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading day period is less than $25 million, regardless of stockholders' equity. Under temporary rulemaking, the NYSE has, through June 30, 2009, suspended the $1.00 requirement and also lowered the average market capitalization requirement from $25 million to $15 million. As of March 20, 2009, our closing stock price was $7.42, our average global market capitalization over the previous consecutive 30 trading-day period was $56,204,000, and, at the same time, our total stockholders' equity was $31,688,000. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, in response to which, the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock. In such event, if we were 19 Table of Contents unable to regain compliance with the NYSE's continued listing standards within the required time frames, our common stock would be delisted, which could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock, reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for us, and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, delisting from the NYSE might negatively impact our reputation and, as a consequence, our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 