ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Real Estate Operations Revenues for our real estate operations are expected to decline for the foreseeable future. In 2005, our real estate operations realized substantial revenues related to sales of residential lots and acreage at our Fountain Hills, Mirada and Palmas developments. As the proceeds from these asset sales have not been redeployed to other real estate assets and there have been significant declines in real estate demand in areas where the Company operates, this level of sales activity is not expected to recur for some time. Real estate development is a cyclical industry and is affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. The real estate development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, including, but not limited to: • employment levels and population growth and shifts; • interest rates and the availability of financing; • consumer confidence; and • changes in the desirability of residential and commercial areas. Development of a project begins, and financial and other resources are typically committed long before a real estate project is able to begin sales, which could occur at a time when the real estate market is depressed. Our real estate operations are subject to various land use regulations and governmental approvals. Our real estate operations are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations concerning zoning, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, and construction. Periodic approval is required from different agencies in connection with various matters. Certain jurisdictions also require the inspection of properties, approval of sales literature, disclosure to purchasers of specific information, bonding for property improvements, and approval of real estate contract forms. Failure to comply with such regulations and requirements to obtain any such approvals could adversely affect our real estate operations. We must follow certain land use approval processes to develop our projects. These processes have become increasingly complex. Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes enable third parties to challenge the proposed plans and approvals. Any such challenges would result in additional costs and delays in obtaining approvals or bringing a development to market. They could also result in litigation outcomes unfavorable to us in a variety of ways such as affecting the timing, design, completion, scope, plans and profitability of a project. We are in competition with other developments for customers and residents. There is intense competition among companies in the real estate investment and development business. Our Palmas acreage sales and resort operations compete with similar businesses in the Caribbean, Florida and other vacation/holiday destinations, and our developments and operations in Arizona face increased competition in the area. 11 Table of Contents Claims relating to infrastructure obligations could be filed against our real estate operations. Our real estate operations rely on third party contractors to complete various infrastructure requirements at our real estate developments, such as installing electrical lines, piping, water tanks, drainage and roads. The failure of the contractors to perform or their faulty workmanship could result in claims against our real estate operations. Risks Related to Our Racing Operations The significant competition we face from other gaming and entertainment operations can be expected to continue adversely affecting the operating performance of our racing segment. Sam Houston Race Park competes with many other forms of wagering and entertainment, including Louisiana gaming facilities, a nearby greyhound racetrack, the Texas State Lottery, bingo and a wide range of sporting events and other entertainment activities. Other competitive pressures include simulcast signals broadcast by race tracks able to offer larger purses and competitive fields, resorts with gaming, and increasing use of the Internet for horse wagering and gaming, including Internet betting services with customer incentives such as cash rebates. Future competitive risks include approval of new forms of gaming in Texas or elsewhere. Our racing operations are also affected by the allocation of sufficient live racing days by the Racing Commission and the ability of our racing facilities to attract a sufficient number and quality of race horses and greyhounds. Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park face a substantial challenge to maintain and grow their customer base in light of these competitive pressures. It will be difficult to obtain legislation that would allow our racing operations to increase their revenues. Our two racing facilities would be able to increase their revenues, likely to a substantial degree, were additional forms of gaming to be allowed at our horse and dog racing tracks. The Company and other industry participants have during prior regular and special sessions of the Texas Legislature pursued legislation that would permit video lottery terminals at Texas tracks. None of these prior sessions resulted in the passage of such legislation. We intend to continue vigorously pursuing legislation favorable to our racing operations, including during the current legislative session that began in January 2009 and runs through May 2009. Several gaming/racing bills have been introduced to date, including certain ones that would be favorable to the Company. However, no assurance can be given that legislation favorable to the Company will be enacted or become effective. For instance, some legislation may require the approval of two thirds of each legislative house and a majority of Texas voters. Moreover, it is impossible to determine what the provisions would be of any legislation that is enacted or its ultimate effect on our racing operations. Legislative and regulatory developments could adversely affect our racing operations. The ownership and operation of horse and greyhound racetracks in Texas are subject to significant regulation under the Racing Act and oversight by the Racing Commission. The Racing Act could be amended in ways that are adverse to our racing operations, or the Racing Commission could adopt regulations or issue rulings that negatively affect our racing operations. Risks Related to the Bankruptcy Cases The bankruptcy cases of the Debtors could result in claims against or have other adverse impacts on the Company and its affiliates. It is possible that the MRC/Marathon Plan could be overturned and unwound as a result of the appeal pending before the Fifth Circuit. If that occurs, the Company would be required to return the $2.25 million of cash consideration it received when the MRC/Marathon Plan was consummated, MGI would be obligated for certain tax liabilities, and Newco’s assumption of the Palco Pension Plan would no longer be effective, among other things. The estimated unfunded termination obligation attributable to the Palco Pension Plan as of December 31, 2008, was approximately $35.0 million based upon annuity placement interest rate assumptions as of such date. On July 10, 2008, the Company and the PBGC entered into an agreement pursuant to which the Company essentially agreed, among other things, that should the PBGC elect to terminate the Palco Pension Plan in the future, the Company would for a specified period continue to be liable for any unfunded obligations then outstanding with respect to the Palco Pension Plan. Accordingly, an adverse decision related to the Bankruptcy Cases would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition to the foregoing matters, the consummation of the MRC/Marathon Plan (or the Noteholder Plan, in the event the MRC/Marathon Plan is overturned upon appeal) is expected to result in the utilization of all or a substantial portion of the Company’s net operating losses and other tax attributes for federal and state income tax purposes. Moreover, the MRC/Marathon Plan (and the Noteholder Plan) provides for litigation trusts, which could bring claims against the Company and certain of its affiliates. 12 Table of Contents Other Risk Factors The pending Wilson actions could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. The Company is a defendant in the Wilson federal action in which the plaintiffs allege that the Company and others violated the Federal False Claims Act. The Company is also a defendant in a similar lawsuit, the Wilson state action, which alleges violations by the Company and others of the California False Claims Act. The Wilson federal action is scheduled for trial beginning on April 20, 2009. As the plaintiffs are claiming damages in the Wilson actions that, on a combined basis, exceed a billion dollars, an adverse decision in either Wilson action would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The Wilson actions are described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings–MAXXAM Inc. Litigation–Forest Products Related Litigation” and Note 10, “–Contingencies–MAXXAM Inc. Litigation–Forest Products Related Litigation.” Claims could arise from prior acquisitions. The Company or its affiliates have over time acquired a variety of properties or entities, some with long operating histories. These properties and entities may be subject to environmental or other liabilities that were not identified at the time of acquisition. Any such claims would likely be costly to defend and their settlement or other resolution could potentially have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operation or liquidity. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could adversely affect various operations of the Company. Our operations are subject to risks from natural disasters and other catastrophic events. For instance, our Palmas resort in Puerto Rico, as well as our racing operations at Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park, are particularly subject to damage from hurricanes. Moreover, all of our operations are subject to general risks such as fire or adverse weather conditions. Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results. We have insurance coverage against a variety of operating hazards including business interruption, liability and other losses to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available at acceptable rates. However, the nature and amount of that insurance may not be sufficient to fully cover liabilities arising out of pending and future litigation or other claims. Moreover, our insurance has deductibles or self insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. Insurance does not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations would be adversely affected by claims not covered by insurance. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, efforts and availability of our management and employees. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills or the unionization of our workforce could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations or growth. Compliance with and changes in laws and regulations and risks from legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results. Our operations can be affected by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Changes that could affect the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing rules and regulations. Changes that affect the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax rates or tax laws that could have a variety of financial and other effects, including, by way of example, the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. MAXXAM Parent’s investment portfolio could be adversely affected by market conditions and other factors. MAXXAM Parent has substantial assets in different types of investments such as: • a variety of liquid money market instruments, and • U.S. equity securities and corporate debt securities, U.S. treasury obligations and other debt securities. 13 Table of Contents While MAXXAM Parent tries to minimize its risk with respect to its investment portfolio, there can be no assurance that a variety of market and other factors, such as interest rate changes and general market fluctuations, will not adversely affect the performance of MAXXAM Parent’s investment portfolio. Our Chairman controls the election of the Company’s Board of Directors. Charles E. Hurwitz, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, controls a majority of the Company’s common stock (the “Common Stock”) and 84.4% of the Company’s total combined voting power. As a result, Mr. Hurwitz is able to control the election of the Company’s Board of Directors and controls the vote on virtually all matters which might be submitted to a vote of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 