Item 1A. Risk Factors.......................................................... Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments............................................. Item 2. Properties............................................................ Item 3. Legal Proceedings..................................................... Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders................... Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities........................... Item 6. Selected Financial Data............................................... Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations....................................................... Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk............ Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........................... Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm...... Consolidated Balance Sheets.................................. Consolidated Statements of Operations........................ Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows........................ Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Deficit............. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................... Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure............................................... Item 9A. Controls and Procedures............................................... Item 9B. Other Information..................................................... Part III Items 10-14 To be filed with the Registrant's definitive proxy statement Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules............................ Signatures..................................................................... Index of Exhibits.............................................................. Glossary of Defined Terms...................................................... PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General MAXXAM Inc. and its controlled subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company" or "MAXXAM" unless otherwise indicated or the context indicates otherwise. The term "MAXXAM Parent" refers to the Company on a stand-alone basis without its subsidiaries. Some terms used herein are defined in the Glossary of Defined Terms. The Company conducts the substantial portion of its operations through its subsidiaries, which operate in three principal industries. Any reference herein to a company includes the subsidiaries of that company unless otherwise noted or the context indicates otherwise. o Forest products, through MAXXAM Group Inc. ("MGI") and MGI's wholly owned subsidiary, The Pacific Lumber Company ("Palco"), and Palco's wholly owned subsidiaries, Scotia Pacific Company LLC ("ScoPac") and Britt Lumber Co., Inc. ("Britt"). MGI engages in the growing and harvesting of redwood and Douglas-fir timber, the milling of logs into lumber and related operations. Housing, construction and remodeling are the principal markets for the Company's lumber products. o Real estate investment and development, through MAXXAM Property Company ("MPC") and other wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, as well as joint ventures. These subsidiaries are engaged in the business of residential and commercial real estate investment and development, primarily in Arizona, California, Puerto Rico and Texas, including associated golf course or resort operations in certain locations, and also own several commercial real estate properties that are subject to long-term lease arrangements. o Racing operations, through Sam Houston Race Park, Ltd. ("SHRP, Ltd."), a Texas limited partnership, wholly owned by the Company. SHRP, Ltd. owns and operates a Class 1 pari-mutuel horse racing facility in the greater Houston metropolitan area, and a pari-mutuel greyhound racing facility in Harlingen, Texas. In addition to the above, the Company owns approximately 50,000,000 shares ("Kaiser Shares") of the common stock of Kaiser Aluminum Corporation ("Kaiser"), which represent approximately 63% of Kaiser's common stock. However, in 2002-2003, Kaiser and a number of its subsidiaries filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code ("Bankruptcy Code"). Kaiser's plan of reorganization, which provides for the cancellation of the equity interests of current shareholders without consideration or obligation, was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court supervising the Kaiser bankruptcy cases ("Kaiser Bankruptcy Court") in February 2006. However, Kaiser's plan of reorganization is not yet final, as it must still be approved by the U.S. District Court before Kaiser can emerge from Chapter 11, and is also subject to appeal. See "- Kaiser Aluminum" and Notes 1 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for further information. Except as otherwise indicated, all references herein to "Notes" represent the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements which constitute"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). These statements appear in a number of places (see Item 1."Business-Forest Products Operations-Timber and Timberlands" and "-Regulatory and Environmental Factors;" most sections under Item 3. "Legal Proceedings;" and several sections under Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "estimates," "should," "could," "plans," "intends," "projects," "seeks," or "anticipates" or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve significant risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may vary materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. These factors include the effectiveness of management's strategies and decisions, general economic and business conditions, developments in technology, the ability to obtain financing, new or modified statutory, environmental or regulatory requirements, litigation developments, and changing prices and market conditions. This Report identifies other factors which could cause differences between such forward-looking statements and actual results. No assurance can be given that these are all of the factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from the forward-looking statements. Forest Products Operations General The Company engages in forest products operations through MGI, Palco, Britt and ScoPac. Palco, which has been in continuous operation for over 130 years, engages in the growing and harvesting of redwood and Douglas-fir timber, the milling of logs into lumber products, and certain related operations. Palco has over the past several years implemented a number of changes intended to allow it to operate on a more efficient and cost effective basis. These changes included undertaking a mill improvement project that included constructing a new technologically advanced sawmill, installing a new planer facility, closing two of its older sawmills (Carlotta and Fortuna) and most of its remanufacturing facilities, and eliminating certain of its facilities, such as its company-staffed logging operations. See "- Production Facilities." The Company's forest products operations have been significantly and adversely affected by, among other things, the failure of the California North Coast Regional Water Quality Control Board ("North Coast Water Board") to release for harvest a number of ScoPac's timber harvesting plans ("THPs") even though the plans have already been approved by the other government agencies which review ScoPac's THPs and are in compliance with Palco's habitat conservation plan. See "-Regulatory and Environmental Factors-Water Quality" and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition and Investing and Financing Activities- Forest Products Operations." Timber and Timberlands This section contains statements which constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the PSLRA. See this section, "Business-General" above and Item 1A. "Risk Factors" below for cautionary information with respect to such forward-looking statements. Palco owns and manages, principally through ScoPac, approximately 217,000 acres of virtually contiguous commercial timberlands located in Humboldt County along the northern California coast, an area which has very favorable soil and climate conditions for growing timber. These timberlands, which are located in close proximity to Palco's sawmills and have an extensive network of roads, contain predominantly conifer timber. Palco's conifers consist (by volume) of approximately 66% redwood, 30% Douglas-fir, and 4% other conifer timber. Approximately 204,000 acres of Palco's timberlands are owned by ScoPac ("ScoPac Timberlands"), and ScoPac has the exclusive right to harvest ("ScoPac Timber Rights") approximately 12,200 acres of timberlands owned by Palco and its subsidiary, Salmon Creek LLC ("Salmon Creek"). The timber in respect of the ScoPac Timberlands and the ScoPac Timber Rights is collectively referred to as the "ScoPac Timber" and the timberlands in respect of the ScoPac Timber are referred to as the "ScoPac Timber Property." The ScoPac Timber Property and the timberlands of Palco and Salmon Creek are collectively referred to as the "Palco Timberlands." Substantially all of ScoPac's assets are pledged as security for its 6.55% Series B Class A-1 Timber Collateralized Notes, 7.11% Series B Class A-2 Timber Collateralized Notes and 7.71% Series B Class A-3 Timber Collateralized Notes (collectively, the "Timber Notes"). The Indenture governing the Timber Notes is referred to herein as the "Timber Notes Indenture." Under a master purchase agreement between Palco and Scopac ("Master Purchase Agreement"), Palco harvests and purchases from ScoPac virtually all of the logs harvested from the ScoPac Timber. See "-Relationships among the Palco Companies" below for a description of this and other relationships among the Palco, Scopac and Salmon Creek. Timber generally is categorized by species and the age of a tree when it is harvested. "Old growth" trees are often defined as trees which have been growing for approximately 200 years or longer and "young growth" or "second growth" trees are those which have been growing for less than 200 years. The forest products industry grades lumber into various classifications according to quality. The two broad categories into which all grades fall based on the absence or presence of knots are called "upper" and "common" grades, respectively. Old growth trees have a higher percentage of upper grade lumber than young growth trees. ScoPac's foresters, wildlife and fisheries biologists, geologists, botanists and other personnel provide a number of forest stewardship techniques, including protecting ScoPac Timber from forest fires, erosion, insects and other damage, overseeing reforestation activities, and implementing and monitoring environmental and regulatory compliance. ScoPac's personnel also prepare THPs and maintain and update the information contained in its geographical information system ("GIS"). See "-Harvesting Practices" below for a description of the GIS updating process and the THP preparation process. Palco and ScoPac engage in extensive efforts to supplement the natural regeneration of timber and increase the amount of timber on the Palco Timberlands. ScoPac and Palco are required to comply with California forestry regulations regarding reforestation, which generally require that an area be reforested to specified standards within an established period of time. Pursuant to the services agreement ("Services Agreement") between Palco and ScoPac described below (see "-Relationships among the Palco Companies"), Palco conducts regeneration activities on the ScoPac Timber Property on behalf of ScoPac. Reforestation of redwood timber generally is accomplished through redwood sprouts from the stumps of harvested trees and the planting of redwood seedlings at levels designed to optimize growth. Douglas-fir timber is regenerated almost entirely by planting seedlings. During 2005, Palco planted an estimated 1,350,000 redwood and Douglas-fir seedlings. California law requires large timberland owners, including Palco, to demonstrate that their timber operations will not decrease the sustainable productivity of their timberlands. The applicable regulations require timber companies to project timber growth and harvest on their timberlands over a 100-year planning period and to demonstrate sustained yield, i.e. that their projected average annual harvest for any decade within the 100-year planning period will not exceed the average annual growth level at the end of the 100-year planning period. A timber company may comply with this requirement by submitting a sustained yield plan to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection ("CDF") for review and approval. Timber companies which do not have a sustained yield plan are allowed to follow alternative procedures (see below). Palco and ScoPac are also subject to federal and state laws providing for the protection and conservation of wildlife species which have been designated as endangered or threatened, certain of which are found on the Palco Timberlands. These laws generally prohibit certain adverse impacts on such species (referred to as a "take"), except for incidental take which does not jeopardize the continued existence of the affected species and occurs as a result of operations that comply with an approved habitat conservation plan and related incidental take permit. A habitat conservation plan analyzes the impact of the incidental take and specifies measures to monitor, minimize and mitigate such impact. As part of the Headwaters Agreement (see "-Regulatory and Environmental Factors-Environmental Plans"), the federal and state governments approved a sustained yield plan ("SYP") (see "-Regulatory and Environmental Factors-Environmental Plans") and a comprehensive multi-species habitat conservation plan ("HCP", and together with the SYP, the "Environmental Plans") in respect of substantially all of the Palco Timberlands. In connection with two lawsuits filed against the Palco Companies, a California trial court invalidated the SYP and the incidental take permits issued by California in connection with the Environmental Plans ("California Permits"). However, the Palco Companies appealed this decision, and in December 2005, the appeals court reversed the trial court's ruling. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings-Forest Products Litigation" for further information regarding this matter. As a result of these cases, ScoPac from October 2002 until March 2005 obtained review and approval of its THPs under an alternative procedure in the California forest practice rules known as "Option C." Option C is available to landowners who have submitted an "Option A" plan to the CDF for review (as was done by Palco). An approved Option A plan is an alternative to obtaining approval of a sustained yield plan. Palco's Option A plan ("Option A Plan") was approved by the CDF in March 2005. The Palco Companies are currently relying upon its Option A Plan to obtain THP approvals, and will likely continue to do so in the future. Harvesting Practices The ability of Palco to harvest timber depends in large part upon the ability to obtain regulatory approval of THPs prepared by ScoPac's foresters. Prior to harvesting timber in California, companies are obligated to obtain the CDF's approval of a detailed THP for the area to be harvested. A THP must be submitted by a Registered Professional Forester and is required to include information regarding the method of proposed timber operations for a specified area, whether the operations will have any adverse impact on the environment and, if so, the mitigation measures to be used to reduce any such impact. The CDF's evaluation of THPs incorporates review and analysis of such THPs by several California and federal agencies and public comments received with respect to such THPs. The number of ScoPac's approved THPs and the amount of timber covered by such THPs can vary significantly from time to time, depending upon the timing of agency review and other factors. Timber covered by an approved THP is typically harvested within a one-year period from the date that harvesting first begins. The Timber Notes Indenture requires ScoPac to use its best efforts (consistent with prudent business practices) to maintain a number of pending THPs which, together with THPs previously approved, would cover rights to harvest a quantity of ScoPac Timber adequate to pay interest and principal amortization based on the Minimum Principal Amortization schedule (as set forth in the Timber Notes Indenture) for the Timber Notes for the next succeeding twelve-month period. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition and Investing and Financing Activities-Forest Products Operations" regarding delays by the North Coast Water Board in releasing already-approved THPs for harvest. Also see "-Regulatory and Environmental Factors," Item 3. "Legal Proceedings-Forest Products Litigation," and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for various legal, regulatory, environmental and other challenges being faced by Palco in connection with timber harvesting and other operations on its timberlands. ScoPac maintains the GIS, a detailed geographical information system covering the Palco Timberlands. The GIS covers numerous aspects of these timber properties, including timber type, site productivity class, wildlife and botanical data, geological information, roads, rivers and streams. Pursuant to the Services Agreement, Palco, to the extent necessary, assists ScoPac in updating, upgrading and improving the GIS and the other computer systems owned by ScoPac. By carefully monitoring and updating this data base and conducting field studies, ScoPac's foresters are better able to develop detailed THPs addressing the various regulatory requirements. ScoPac also utilizes a Global Positioning System ("GPS"), which can provide precise location of geographic features through satellite positioning. Use of the GPS greatly enhances the quality and efficiency of the GIS data. ScoPac employs a variety of well-accepted methods of selecting trees for harvest designed to achieve optimal growth and regeneration. These methods, referred to as "silvicultural systems" in the forestry profession, range from very light thinnings (aimed at enhancing the growth rate of retained trees) to clear cutting, which results in the harvest of nearly all trees in an area (with the exception of sub-merchantable trees and trees retained for wildlife protection and future stand enhancement) and replacement with a new forest stand. In between are a number of varying levels of partial harvest that can be employed. Production Facilities Palco operates two highly mechanized sawmills and related facilities located in Scotia, California and Arcata, California. Palco's sawmills had historically been supplied almost entirely from timber harvested from its timberlands. More recently, Palco has had to supplement its internal log supply with logs purchased from third parties. Palco has over the years implemented numerous technological advances that have increased the operating efficiency of its production facilities and the recovery of finished products from its timber. In April 2004, Palco commenced a mill improvement project, including a new sawmill located in Scotia. The new sawmill was constructed in two phases. The first phase of the project, the processing of smaller diameter second growth logs (up to 24" in diameter) is a high-speed processing line that includes advanced scanning and optimization technology intended to maximize lumber recovery. The second phase, the relocation of large log equipment from the Carlotta mill, came on line in October 2005. This phase allows for processing of larger logs up to 60" in diameter. Although there were more difficulties than Palco expected, since commencing production, Palco has made substantial progress in refining the production process in the new mill, particularly the high-speed small log processing line. There have been delays in completion of the large log processing line, however, and it is not yet operating at planned production rates, primarily due to a current imbalance between small diameter and large diameter logs which impacts the mill's throughput. Palco also completed a new $5.0 million planer project in Scotia in January 2004. This high speed system processes rough sawn boards into finished lumber at rates up to four times faster than the older planers at the former Carlotta and Fortuna mills. Britt's primary business is the processing of small diameter redwood logs into fencing products for sale to retail and wholesale customers. Britt purchases, primarily from Palco but also from other timberland owners, small diameter (6 to 15 inch) redwood logs of varying lengths. Britt processes these logs at its mill into a variety of fencing products, including "dog-eared" 1" by 6" fence stock in six foot lengths, 4" by 4" fence posts in 6 through 12 foot lengths, and other lumber products in 6 through 12 foot lengths. Britt's mill and related facilities are located in Arcata, California. Britt produced approximately 79, 86 and 76 million board feet of lumber in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Subject to market conditions and lumber supply, Palco dries a portion of its lumber before it is processed or sold. Air or kiln-dried lumber generally commands higher prices than "green" lumber, which is lumber sold before it has been dried. Drying also allows Palco to compete in additional markets (due to lower shipping costs resulting from the moisture and weight reduction which occurs in the drying process). Palco owns and can operate up to 31 kilns having an annual capacity of approximately 38 million board feet. Palco had previously operated a finishing and remanufacturing plant in Scotia that processed rough lumber into a variety of finished products. However, the facility was closed in 2005 as part of Palco's ongoing efforts to operate more efficiently. Palco owns and operates a cogeneration power plant which is fueled by the wood residue from logging and lumber production operations. The operations of Palco and Britt supplied 53% of the fuel in 2005. The power plant is capable of producing up to 32.5 megawatts per hour and generates substantially all of the energy requirements of Scotia, California, the town located in the midst of the Palco Timberlands. Several of Palco's facilities are located in Scotia and a number of its employees live there. Palco sells surplus power to Pacific Gas and Electric Company. In 2005, the sale of surplus power accounted for approximately 6% of MGI's total revenues. Products MGI produced 266.8, 298.1 and 289.3 million board feet of lumber in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following table sets forth the distribution of MGI's lumber production (on a net board foot basis) and revenues by product line: Year Ended December 31, 2005 Year Ended December 31, 2004 ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- % of Total % of Total Lumber % of Total Lumber % of Total Production Lumber % of Total Production Lumber % of Total Product Volume Revenues Revenues Volume Revenues Revenues - ------------------------------- ------------- --------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ Upper grade redwood lumber 2% 5% 4% 6% 13% 12% Common grade redwood lumber 64% 72% 61% 70% 71% 63% ------------- -------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ Total redwood lumber 66% 77% 65% 76% 84% 75% ------------- -------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ Upper grade Douglas-fir lumber - % - % - % 1% 1% 1% Common grade Douglas-fir lumber 33% 22% 19% 21% 14% 12% ------------- -------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ Total Douglas-fir lumber 33% 22% 19% 22% 15% 13% ------------- -------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ Other grades of lumber 1% 1% 1% 2% 1% 1% ------------- -------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ Total lumber 100% 100% 85% 100% 100% 89% ============= ============== ============ ============ ============ ============ Logs 5% 3% ============ ============ Wood chips........ 2% 2% ============ ============ In 2005, MGI sold 281.9 million board feet of lumber. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations-Forest Products Operations" for additional information. Lumber products vary greatly by the species and quality of the timber from which they are produced. Lumber is sold not only by grade (such as "upper" grade versus "common" grade), but also by board size and the drying process associated with the lumber. Redwood lumber has historically been MGI's largest product category. Redwood is commercially available only along the northern coast of California and possesses certain unique characteristics that permit it to be sold at a premium to many other wood products. Such characteristics include its natural beauty, superior ability to retain paint and other finishes, dimensional stability and innate resistance to decay, insects and chemicals. Typical applications include exterior siding, trim and fascia for both residential and commercial construction, outdoor furniture, decks, planters, retaining walls and other specialty applications. Redwood also has a variety of industrial applications because of its chemical resistance and because it does not impart any taste or odor to liquids or solids. Upper grade redwood lumber, which is derived primarily from larger diameter logs and is characterized by an absence of knots and other defects, little to no sapwood, and a tighter grain, is used primarily in distinctive interior and exterior applications. Common grade redwood lumber, historically MGI's largest volume product, has many of the same aesthetic and structural qualities of redwood uppers, but has some knots, sapwood and a coarser grain. Such lumber is commonly used for construction purposes, including outdoor structures such as decks and fencing. Douglas-fir lumber is used primarily for new construction and some decorative purposes and is widely recognized for its strength, hard surface and attractive appearance. Douglas-fir is grown commercially along the west coast of North America and in Chile and New Zealand. Upper grade Douglas-fir lumber is derived primarily from larger diameter Douglas-fir timber and is used principally in finished carpentry applications. Common grade Douglas-fir lumber is used for a variety of general construction purposes and is somewhat interchangeable with common grades of other whitewood species, although the strength of Douglas-fir makes it more desirable in certain applications. During 2005, MGI purchased approximately 47.0 million board feet of logs from third parties. MGI does not have any significant contractual relationships with third parties relating to the purchase of logs. Palco produces softwood chips from the wood residue from its milling operations. These chips are sold to third parties for the production of wood pulp and paper products. Subject principally to economic feasibility, Palco also produces and sells to third parties wood chips from hardwood trees. Backlog and Seasonality MGI's backlog of sales orders at December 31, 2005 was $11.8 million, of which it is estimated that $5.3 million will be shipped in the first quarter of 2006. The sales backlog at December 31, 2004, was $50.8 million, of which $13.8 million was shipped in the first quarter of 2005. MGI has historically experienced lower first quarter sales due largely to the general decline in construction-related activity during the winter months. As a consequence, MGI's results in any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year. See also "-Regulatory and Environmental Factors" below and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition and Investing and Financing Activities-Forest Products Operations." Marketing The housing, construction and remodeling markets are the primary markets for MGI's lumber products. MGI's goal is to maintain a wide geographic distribution of its products. MGI's accounts are primarily wholesale, followed by industrial end users, manufacturers, retailers and exporters. MGI's redwood and Douglas-fir lumber is sold throughout the entire United States, as well as to export markets. Common grades of redwood lumber are sold principally west of the Mississippi River, with California accounting for approximately 80% of common redwood sales in 2005. Common grades of Douglas-fir lumber are sold primarily in California. In 2005, MGI's largest three customers accounted for approximately 16%, 6% and 6%, respectively, of MGI's total net lumber sales. Exports of lumber accounted for less than 1% of MGI's total net lumber sales in 2005. MGI markets its products through its own sales staff, which focuses primarily on domestic sales. MGI actively follows trends in the housing, construction and remodeling markets in order to maintain an appropriate level of inventory and assortment of products. Due to its high quality products, strong brand recognition, competitive prices and long history, MGI believes it has a strong degree of customer loyalty. However, this customer loyalty would be severely tested if long-term product shortages result from the regulatory and other difficulties being experienced by Palco. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition and Investing and Financing Activities-Forest Products Operations." Competition MGI's lumber is sold in highly competitive markets. Competition is generally based upon a combination of price, service, product availability and product quality. MGI's products compete not only with other wood products but with metals, masonry, plastic and other construction materials made from non-renewable resources. The level of demand for MGI's products is dependent on such broad factors as overall economic conditions, interest rates and demographic trends. In addition, competitive considerations, such as total industry production and competitors' pricing, as well as the price of other construction products, affect the sales prices for MGI's lumber products. Competition in the common grade redwood and Douglas-fir lumber market is intense, with MGI competing with numerous large and small lumber producers. MGI primarily competes with the northern California mills of Simpson, Redwood Empire, Sierra Pacific, Canadian cedar lumber producers, as well as other imports and non-wood alternatives. Employees As of March 1, 2006, MGI had approximately 635 employees. Relationships among the Palco Companies The Palco Companies are parties to several agreements between or among themselves, including the Master Purchase Agreement, the Services Agreement, an additional services agreement, a reciprocal rights agreement, and an environmental indemnification agreement. The Master Purchase Agreement between Palco and ScoPac governs the sale to Palco of logs harvested from the ScoPac Timber Property. As Palco purchases logs from ScoPac pursuant to the Master Purchase Agreement, Palco is responsible, at its own expense, for harvesting and removing the standing ScoPac Timber covered by approved THPs, with the purchase price being based upon "stumpage prices." Title to, and the obligation to pay for, harvested logs passes to Palco when the logs are measured. The Master Purchase Agreement contemplates that all sales of logs by ScoPac to Palco will be at fair market value (based on stumpage prices) for each species and category of timber. The Master Purchase Agreement provides that if the purchase price equals or exceeds the SBE Price (as defined below) and a structuring price set forth in a schedule to the Timber Notes Indenture, the purchase price is deemed to be at fair market value. If the purchase price equals or exceeds the SBE Price, but is less than the structuring price, then ScoPac is required to engage an independent forestry consultant to confirm that the purchase price reflects fair market value. "SBE Price" is the stumpage price for each species and category of timber as set forth in the most recent "Harvest Value Schedule" (or any successor publication) published by the California State Board of Equalization (or any successor agency) applicable to the timber sold during the applicable period. Harvest Value Schedules are published twice a year for purposes of computing a yield tax imposed on timber harvested between January 1 through June 30 and July 1 through December 31. SBE Prices are not necessarily representative of actual prices that would be realized from unrelated parties at subsequent dates. ScoPac relies on Palco, pursuant to the Services Agreement between the companies, to provide operational, management and related services not performed by ScoPac's own employees with respect to the ScoPac Timber Property. These services include protecting the ScoPac Timber from fire, disease and insects; maintaining and rehabilitating roads on the ScoPac Timber Property; building new roads to permit the harvesting of ScoPac Timber; providing certain timber management services, such as replanting and reforestation, designed to supplement the natural regeneration of, and increase the amount of, ScoPac Timber; assisting ScoPac to comply with all applicable environmental laws; advising and consulting with ScoPac regarding legislative matters; preparing and filing on behalf of ScoPac (at Palco's cost) all pleadings and motions, and otherwise diligently pursuing, appeals of any denial and defense of any challenge to approval of any THP or the Environmental Plans or similar plan or permit and related matters; and otherwise furnishing all equipment, personnel and expertise not within the ScoPac's possession and reasonably necessary for the operation and maintenance of the ScoPac Timber Property and ScoPac Timber. Palco is required to provide all services under the Services Agreement in a manner consistent in all material respects with prudent business practices which are consistent with then-current applicable industry standards and are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable timber laws. ScoPac pays Palco a services fee, which is adjusted annually based on a specified government price index relating to wood products, and which covers a portion of Palco's costs of providing services. ScoPac also reimburses Palco for the cost of constructing, rehabilitating and maintaining roads, and performing reforestation services, on the ScoPac Timber Property. Certain of such reimbursable expenses vary in relation to the amount of timber harvesting in any given period. ScoPac is required to provide certain services to Palco pursuant to an additional services agreement between the companies. These services include (i) assisting Palco to operate, maintain and harvest its own timber properties, (ii) updating and providing access to the GIS with respect to information concerning Palco's own timber properties, and (iii) assisting Palco with its statutory and regulatory compliance. This agreement provides that Palco shall pay ScoPac a fee for such services equal to ScoPac's actual cost of providing such services, as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The Palco Companies are parties to a reciprocal rights agreement whereby, among other things, the parties have granted to each other certain reciprocal rights of egress and ingress through their respective properties in connection with the operation and maintenance of such properties and their respective businesses. In addition, Palco and ScoPac are parties to an environmental indemnification agreement, pursuant to which Palco has agreed to indemnify ScoPac from and against certain present and future liabilities arising with respect to hazardous materials, hazardous materials contamination or disposal sites, or under environmental laws with respect to the ScoPac Timber Property. In particular, Palco is liable with respect to any contamination which occurred on the ScoPac Timber Property prior to the date of its transfer to ScoPac. Regulatory and Environmental Factors This section contains statements which constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the PSLRA. See this section and "Business-General" above and Item 1A. "Risk Factors" below for cautionary information with respect to such forward-looking statements. General The businesses of Palco and ScoPac are subject to a variety of California and federal laws and regulations, as well as the HCP, dealing with timber harvesting practices, threatened and endangered species and habitat for such species, and air and water quality. Compliance with such laws and regulations also plays a significant role in these companies' businesses. The California Forest Practice Act ("Forest Practice Act") and related regulations adopted by the California Board of Forestry and Fire Protection ("BOF") set forth detailed requirements for the conduct of timber harvesting operations in California. These requirements include the obligation of timber companies to obtain regulatory approval of detailed THPs containing information with respect to areas proposed to be harvested. See "-Harvesting Practices" above. California law also requires large timberland owners, including Palco, to demonstrate that their proposed timber operations will not exceed the maximum sustainable production of their timberlands over time. See "-Timber and Timberlands" above. The federal Endangered Species Act ("ESA") and California Endangered Species Act ("CESA") provide in general for the protection and conservation of specifically listed wildlife and plants. These laws generally prohibit the take of certain species, except for specifically authorized incidental take pursuant to otherwise lawful activities which do not jeopardize the continued existence of the affected species and which are made in accordance with an approved habitat conservation plan and related incidental take permits. A habitat conservation plan, among other things, specifies measures to minimize and mitigate the potential impact of the incidental take of species and to monitor the effects of the activities covered by the plan. Palco is also subject to the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"), which provides for protection of the state's air and water quality and wildlife, and the California Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act and federal Clean Water Act ("CWA"), which require that Palco conduct its operations so as to reasonably protect the water quality of nearby rivers and streams. Compliance with such laws and related regulations and judicial and administrative interpretations, together with other regulatory and environmental matters, have resulted in substantial restrictions on the scope and timing of Palco's timber operations, increased operational costs significantly, and engendered continual litigation and other challenges to its operations. Moreover, the cash flows of Palco and ScoPac have been adversely affected by the failure of the North Coast Water Board to release for harvest THPs which have already been approved by the other government agencies that approve ScoPac's THPs. See "-Water Quality" below. Environmental Plans In March 1999, Palco, ScoPac and Salmon Creek (collectively, the "Palco Companies") consummated the Headwaters Agreement ("Headwaters Agreement") with the United States and California. Pursuant to the agreement, approximately 5,600 acres of timberlands owned by the Palco Companies were transferred to the United States government in exchange for (i) an aggregate of $300.0 million, (ii) approximately 7,700 acres of timberlands, and (iii) approval by the federal and state governments of the Environmental Plans. In connection with approval of the Environmental Plans, the California Permits and federal incidental take permits ("Federal Permits," and together with the California Permits, the "Permits"), were issued with respect to certain threatened, endangered and other species found on the timberlands covered by the Environmental Plans. The Permits were to cover the 50-year term of the HCP and allow incidental take of 17 different species covered by the HCP, including nine species which are found on the Palco Timberlands that have been listed under the ESA and/or the CESA. In October 2003, a California trial court entered a judgment invalidating the SYP and the California Permits. Palco appealed this decision and in December 2005 the appeals court reversed the trial court's ruling. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings-Forest Products Litigation" for further information regarding this matter. The agreements which implement the Environmental Plans also provide for various remedies (including the issuance of written stop orders and liquidated damages) in the event of a breach by the Palco Companies of these agreements or the Environmental Plans. Under the HCP, harvesting activities are prohibited or restricted on certain areas of the Palco Timberlands. Some of these restrictions continue for the entire 50-year term of the HCP. For example, several areas (containing substantial quantities of timber, including old growth redwood and Douglas-fir timber) are designated as habitat conservation areas for the marbled murrelet, a coastal seabird, and certain other species. Harvesting in certain other areas of the Palco Timberlands is currently prohibited while these areas are evaluated for the potential risk of landslide. Further, additional areas alongside streams have been designated as buffers, in which harvesting is prohibited or restricted, to protect aquatic and riparian habitat. Restrictions on harvest in streamside buffers and potential landslide prone areas may be adjusted up or down, subject to certain minimum and maximum buffers, based upon the ongoing watershed analysis process described below. The adaptive management process described below may also be used to modify most of these restrictions. The first analysis of a watershed, Freshwater, was released in June 2001. This analysis was used by the Palco Companies and the government agencies to develop proposed harvesting prescriptions. Since then watershed analysis has been completed and prescriptions approved for three additional watersheds: Van Duzen in January 2004, Lower Eel-Eel Delta in March 2004, and Elk River in November 2005. The Freshwater, Van Duzen, Lower Eel, and Elk River prescriptions each resulted in a reduction in the size of the streamside buffers set forth in the Environmental Plans and also provide for geologic reviews in order to conduct harvesting activities on some potential landslide-prone areas in lieu of no-harvest restrictions. This effectively reduced both constrained acreage and operational restrictions of the HCP in these watersheds. The analysis for a fifth watershed, Upper Eel is in the process of being submitted for agency and public review, and prescriptions for this watershed are being developed. The HCP required the Palco Companies, together with the government agencies, to establish a schedule resulting in completion of the initial watershed analysis process for all covered lands within five years. However, due largely to the number of agencies involved and the depth and complexity of the analyses, the process has required more time than originally anticipated. Accordingly, the Palco Companies continue to work with the government agencies to establish appropriate timelines and to streamline watershed analyses on the remaining portions of Palco Timberlands to ensure that such studies are time and cost efficient and continue to provide scientific results necessary to evaluate potential changes to the harvesting restrictions on those lands. The Palco Companies have received an extension to March 2007 of the time in which the watershed analysis process must be completed. The HCP contains an adaptive management provision, which both the state and federal governments have clarified will be implemented on a timely and efficient basis, and in a manner which will be both biologically and economically sound. This provision allows the Palco Companies to propose changes to many of the HCP prescriptions based on, among other things, economic considerations. The regulatory agencies have also clarified that in applying this adaptive management provision, to the extent the changes proposed do not result in the jeopardy of a particular species, the regulatory agencies will consider the practicality of the suggested changes, including the cost, and economic feasibility and viability. The Palco Companies and the agencies have implemented various adaptive management changes related to wildlife and rare plants, and other changes relating to roads and streamside buffers. These adaptive management changes have increased the ability to conduct harvesting operations on the Palco Timberlands and/or reduced operating costs while still meeting the obligations of the Environmental Plans. The HCP imposes certain restrictions on the use of roads on the timberlands covered by the HCP during several months of the year and during periods of wet weather. However, Palco has conducted, and expects to be able to continue to conduct, some harvesting during these periods. An adaptive management change approved in 2003 for the road restrictions has improved the ability to construct and use roads on the Palco Timberlands in ways that are consistent with the operational needs of the Palco Companies. The HCP also requires that 75 miles of roads be stormproofed (i.e., reconstructed to reduce sediment generation) on an annual basis and that certain other roads must be improved or repaired. The nature of this work requires that it be performed in the dry periods of the year. To date, over 465 miles of roads have been stormproofed consistent with the HCP schedule. Water Quality Laws and regulations dealing with water quality are impacting the Palco Companies primarily in four areas: efforts by the federal Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and the North Coast Water Board to establish total maximum daily load limits ("TMDLs") in watercourses that have been declared to be water quality impaired; actions by the North Coast Water Board to impose waste discharge reporting requirements in respect of watersheds on the Palco Timberlands and in some cases, clean-up or preventive measures; actions by the North Coast Water Board during the THP approval process which impose certain operational requirements on individual THPs; and a directive of the North Coast Water Board to its staff to develop watershed-wide waste discharge requirements ("WWDRs") for the Freshwater and Elk River watersheds. Under the CWA, the EPA is required to establish TMDLs in watercourses that have been declared to be "water quality impaired." The EPA and the North Coast Water Board are in the process of establishing TMDLs for many northern California rivers and certain of their tributaries, including nine watercourses that flow within the ScoPac Timber Property. On the Palco Timberlands, the relevant contaminant is simple sediment - dust, dirt and gravel - that is abundant in watercourses largely as a function of the area's normally heavy rainfall and soil that erodes easily. The Company expects the process of establishing TMDLs to continue into 2010. In December 1999, the EPA issued a report dealing with TMDLs on two of the nine watercourses. The agency indicated that the requirements under the HCP would significantly address the sediment issues that resulted in TMDL requirements for these watercourses. The North Coast Water Board has begun the process of establishing the TMDL requirements applicable to two other watercourses on the Palco Timberlands, with a targeted completion of 2007 for these two watercourses. ScoPac's scientists are actively working with North Coast Water Board staff to ensure that these TMDLs recognize and incorporate the environmental protection measures of the HCP. The final TMDL requirements applicable to the ScoPac Timber Property may require aquatic protection measures that are different from or in addition to those in the HCP or that result from the prescriptions to be developed pursuant to the watershed analysis process provided for in the HCP. For each of the winter periods since 2002, Palco and ScoPac have been required to submit reports on sediment discharges and erosion control practices to the North Coast Water Board in order to conduct winter harvesting operations in the Freshwater and Elk River watersheds. After consideration of these reports, the North Coast Water Board imposed requirements on the Palco Companies to implement additional mitigation and erosion control practices in these watersheds for each of these winter operating periods. The North Coast Water Board has also extended the requirements for certain mitigation and erosion control practices in three additional watersheds (Bear, Jordan and Stitz Creek). The Palco Companies and the North Coast Water Board are currently in discussions to determine what these measures will be. The requirements imposed to date by the North Coast Water Board have significantly increased operating costs; additional requirements imposed in the future could further increase costs and cause additional delays in THP approvals. The North Coast Water Board has also issued a clean up and abatement order for the Elk River watershed ("Elk River Order"), which is aimed at addressing existing sediment production sites through clean up actions. The North Coast Water Board has also initiated the process which could result in similar orders for the Freshwater and Bear Creek watersheds, and is contemplating similar actions for the Jordan and Stitz Creek watersheds. The Elk River Order has resulted in increased costs to Palco that could extend over a number of years. Additional orders in other watersheds (should they be issued), may also result in further cost increases. Palco's appeal of the Elk River Order to the State Water Resources Control Board ("State Water Board") was denied. Palco has appealed the decision of the State Water Board in state court, but has held such appeal in abeyance until a decision was reached by the California Supreme Court on the THP No. 520 lawsuit (see Item 3. "Legal Proceedings Forest Products Litigation"). Now that the California Supreme Court has reached a decision, Palco is in the process of considering whether or not to pursue its appeal of the Elk River Order. The North Coast Water Board in December 2003 directed its staff to formulate WWDRs for the Freshwater and Elk River watersheds on the ScoPac Timber Property. As harvesting activities on the ScoPac Timber Property cannot readily be moved between watersheds due to, among other things, historic harvest patterns, adjacency restrictions, and the age classes of trees, development of WWDRs and the other matters described herein are expected to result in reduced harvest levels in the future. The staff of the North Coast Water Board has circulated for public review and comment draft WWDRs for the Freshwater and Elk River watersheds. If these draft WWDRs are approved in their current form there would likely be a significant adverse impact on current and future harvest levels. As WWDRs had not been formulated, the North Coast Water Board for some time failed to release for harvest a number of ScoPac's THPs that had already been approved by the other governmental agencies which approve ScoPac's THPs. In February 2005, the Executive Officer of the staff of the North Coast Water Board released sufficient THPs to allow the harvest of up to 50% of the harvest limit established by the CDF for these two watersheds ("CDF Harvest Limit"). On March 16, 2005, the North Coast Water Board ordered the enrollment of additional THPs that would allow the harvest of up to 75% of the CDF Harvest Limit for these two watersheds. Third parties subsequently appealed this decision to the State Water Board. On June 16, 2005, the State Water Board heard this appeal and rendered a decision ("State Water Board Order"), which had the effect of disallowing further harvesting on the additional 25% of the CDF Harvest Limit approved by the North Coast Water Board on March 16, 2005. The State Water Board's decision also has the effect of disallowing further harvesting in the Freshwater and Elk River watersheds until WWDRs for these watersheds are adopted by the North Coast Water Board. On July 14, 2005, Palco and ScoPac filed an action entitled The Pacific Lumber Company and Scotia Pacific Company LLC v. State Water Resources Control Board, et al. (No. CV050516) in Humboldt County Superior Court ("State Water Board action") appealing the State Water Board Order. The companies' appeal requested both a stay of the State Water Board Order and a writ of mandate seeking reversal of the State Water Board Order. Following a December 8, 2005, hearing on the companies' requests, the state court denied the request for a stay, but granted a hearing on the request for a writ of mandate. A hearing on the writ of mandate was held on February 6, 2006 and Palco and Scopac await the court's decision. On September 2, 2005, the North Coast Water Board set hearings on the draft WWDRs for September 14 and 15, 2005. On September 9, 2005, Palco and ScoPac filed a petition in California state court seeking an order mandating that the North Coast Water Board not take any further action on the proposed WWDRs. The petition alleged defects in the proposed WWDRs and the North Coast Water Board's hearing procedures. Palco and ScoPac requested a preliminary injunction to prevent the North Coast Water Board from taking any further action until their petition is heard. The Court denied the preliminary injunctions following a hearing on November 9, 2005, and Palco and ScoPac subsequently dismissed the case. On February 17, 2006, the North Coast Water Board held a status conference to determine a timetable for consideration and approval of WWDRs in the Freshwater and Elk River watersheds. Although a formal timetable has not been published, it appears likely that WWDRs will not be approved before May 2006. Such a timetable would further reduce 2006 harvest levels. Effective January 1, 2004, California Senate Bill 810 provides regional water quality control boards with additional authority related to the approval of THPs on land within impaired watersheds. The Company is uncertain of the operational and financial effects which will ultimately result from Senate Bill 810; however, because substantially all rivers and waterbodies on the ScoPac Timber Property are classified as sediment-impaired, implementation of this law could result in additional delays in obtaining approvals of THPs, lower harvest levels and increased costs and additional protection measures beyond those contained in the HCP. Also see the description of the THP No. 520 lawsuit described in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings-Forest Products Litigation." Impact of Future Developments Laws, regulations and related judicial decisions and administrative interpretations dealing with MGI's business are subject to change, and new laws and regulations are frequently introduced concerning the California timber industry. From time to time, bills are introduced in the California legislature and the U.S. Congress which relate to the business of MGI, including the protection and acquisition of old growth and other timberlands, threatened and endangered species, environmental protection, air and water quality, and the restriction, regulation and administration of timber harvesting practices. In addition to existing and possible new or modified statutory enactments, regulatory requirements and administrative and legal actions, the California timber industry remains subject to potential California or local ballot initiatives, and federal and California judicial decisions which could affect timber harvesting practices. It is not possible to assess the effect of such future legislative, judicial and administrative developments on MGI or its business. Timber Operators License In order to conduct logging operations, road building, stormproofing and certain other activities, a company must obtain a Timber Operator's License from the CDF. In December 2005, Palco was granted a Timber Operator's License for 2006-2007. Real Estate Operations General The Company, principally through its wholly owned subsidiaries, invests in and develops residential and commercial real estate, primarily in Puerto Rico, Arizona, California, and Texas. Real estate properties and receivables as of December 31, 2005 are as follows: Book Value as of December 31, 2005 ----------------- (In millions) Palmas del Mar (Puerto Rico): Undeveloped land and parcels held for sale 1,094 acres $ 31.7 Property, plant and equipment, receivables and other, net 7.2 ----------------- Total 38.9 Resort operations - Palmas Country Club(1) 23.1 ----------------- Total 62.0 ----------------- Fountain Hills (Arizona): Residential developed lots and lots under development 147 lots 8.1 Undeveloped residential land 431 acres 4.6 Property, plant, equipment and receivables, net 1.3 ----------------- Total 14.0 ----------------- Mirada (California): Residential developed lots 29 lots 11.2 Property, plant, equipment and receivables, net 1.1 ----------------- Total 12.3 ----------------- Commercial lease properties: Property, plant and equipment, net: Lake Pointe Plaza (Texas) 107.7 Cooper Cameron building (Texas) 28.5 Motel 6 facilities (10 states) 43.6 Other 3.0 ----------------- Total 182.8 ----------------- Other, principally receivables 1.7 ----------------- Total real estate properties and receivables $ 272.8 ================= - --------------- (1) Palmas Country Club operations include two 18-hole golf courses, a 20 court tennis facility, a member clubhouse, and a beach club. Amounts shown are net of accumulated depreciation. Book Value as of December 31, 2005 ----------------- (In millions) Joint Ventures: FireRock, LLC(1) Golf course, clubhouse and other club facilities $ 15.1 Other property, plant and equipment, net 2.8 ----------------- Total $ 17.9 ================= Investment in FireRock, LLC $ 2.7 ================= RMCAL, LLC (1) $ 22.0 Residential units under development ================= Investment in RMCAL, LLC $ 1.9 ================= - ------------------ (1) 50% owned. Amounts reflect the book value of that 50% interest. Revenues from real estate operations were as follows in 2005 and 2004 (see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations-Real Estate Operations" for additional details regarding 2005, 2004 and 2003 results): Years Ended December 31, -------------------------- 2005 2004 ------------ ------------- Palmas del Mar: Real estate sales $ 42.3 $ 30.9 Commercial, resort operations and other 12.1 10.9 ------------ ------------- Total 54.4 41.8 ------------ ------------- Fountain Hills: Real estate sales 42.9 12.7 Commercial operations and other 5.4 6.7 ------------ ------------- Total 48.3 19.4 ------------ ------------- Mirada: Real estate sales 56.9 16.1 Commercial operations and other 0.1 0.1 ------------ ------------- Total 57.0 16.2 ------------ ------------- Commercial lease properties: Lake Pointe Plaza 10.9 9.9 Cooper Cameron building 2.3 2.3 Motel 6 facilities 4.8 4.8 Other 0.3 0.2 ------------ ------------- Total 18.3 17.2 ------------ ------------- Other: Real estate sales 0.1 - Commercial operations and other 0.2 0.2 ------------ ------------- Total 0.3 0.2 ------------ ------------- Total $ 178.3 $ 94.8 ============ ============= FireRock, LLC(1): Real estate sales $ - $ 15.1 Golf course operations 3.4 3.0 ------------ ------------- Total $ 3.4 $ 18.1 ============ ============= - ----------------- (1) 50% owned. Amount reflects the revenues attributable to that 50% interest. Palmas del Mar Palmas del Mar, a master-planned residential community and resort located on the southeastern coast of Puerto Rico near Humacao ("Palmas"), was acquired by a subsidiary of the Company in 1984. Originally over 2,700 acres, the Company now has approximately 1,100 acres of undeveloped land remaining at Palmas. The Company conducts its operations at Palmas through Palmas del Mar Properties, Inc. ("PDMPI") and PDMPI's subsidiaries. PDMPI seeks developers and investors to acquire its acreage. Resort operations at Palmas include a country club with two golf courses and tennis and beach club facilities. Certain other amenities, including a hotel, marina, equestrian center and various restaurants, are owned and operated by third parties. Fountain Hills In 1968, a subsidiary of the Company purchased and began developing approximately 12,100 acres of real property in Fountain Hills, Arizona, which is located near Phoenix and adjacent to Scottsdale, Arizona. The year-round population of Fountain Hills is over 21,000. Development of Fountain Hills is substantially complete. Future sales are expected to consist of fully developed lots in two developments known as Eagles Nest and Adero Canyon. Eagles Nest, a 506-acre custom lot development planned to include 245 lots, commenced sales in 2004. Lots are being released in phases, with 20 lots and 78 lots having been sold in 2004 and 2005, respectively. Development plans have been formulated for Adero Canyon, a 431-acre custom lot development planned to include 171 lots. Financing of the Adero Canyon development will be accomplished either through new or existing credit facilities or joint venture arrangements. In 1998, a subsidiary of the Company entered into and holds a 50% interest in a joint venture named FireRock LLC ("FireRock LLC") to develop an 808-acre area in Fountain Hills known as FireRock Country Club. The development is a residential, golf-oriented, upscale master-planned community consisting of custom lots, multifamily parcels and a private country club. The club's championship-level private 18-hole golf course opened in 2000. The multi-family parcels were sold in 2001-2002 and custom lot sales concluded in 2004. The venture continues to own and operate the country club. Mirada In 1991, a subsidiary of the Company acquired Mirada, a 220-acre luxury resort-residential project located in Rancho Mirage, California. Mirada is a master-planned community in the Santa Rosa Mountains, 650 feet above the Coachella Valley floor. Three of the six parcels within the project have been developed, the first being a custom lot subdivision of 46 estate lots. The Lodge at Rancho Mirage, formerly the Ritz-Carlton Rancho Mirage Hotel, which is owned and operated by a third party, was developed on the second parcel. The third parcel is a custom lot subdivision comprised of 63 estate lots. Sales of these lots began in 2003, and as of December 31, 2005, 35 lots had been sold. In April 2004, a subsidiary of the Company and a third party real estate development company formed a joint venture to develop a 27 acre residential parcel located in the Mirada development. In connection with the formation of the joint venture, the Company sold a 50% interest in the parcel and contributed the remainder of the parcel to the joint venture in return for a 50% interest in the venture. The joint venture, named RMCAL, LLC ("RMCAL") will construct and sell 46 villas to be built on the parcel. The Company's two remaining parcels encompassing approximately 39 acres were sold in 2005. Commercial Lease Properties In June 2001, subsidiaries of the Company acquired Lake Pointe Plaza, an office complex located in Sugar Land, Texas, for a purchase price of $131.3 million. The transaction was financed by the subsidiaries through the issuance of $122.5 million of non-recourse notes and the balance from available cash. The office complex is fully leased to affiliates of the seller through May 2021 and under which all lease payments are guaranteed by the parent company of the current tenant. In November 2002, a subsidiary of the Company acquired the Cooper Cameron building, an office building located in Houston, Texas, for a purchase price of $32.7 million. The transaction was financed by the subsidiary through a cash payment of $3.0 million and the issuance of $29.7 million in non-recourse notes. At the time of the acquisition, the subsidiary simultaneously leased the property back to the seller for a period of 22 years. In December 2002, a subsidiary of the Company acquired two business trusts which own a portfolio of sixteen motel properties located in ten different states. The purchase price consisted of a cash payment of $3.5 million and the assumption of certain non-recourse notes with an outstanding principal balance of $49.4 million secured by the properties. The properties were acquired subject to an existing lease agreement under which the properties are fully leased through April 2019, and under which all obligations are guaranteed by the parent company of the current tenant. Marketing The Company is engaged in marketing and sales programs of varying magnitudes at its real estate developments. The Company intends to continue selling undeveloped acreage and semi-developed parcels, generally to builders and developers, and fully developed lots to individuals and builders. All sales are made directly to purchasers through the Company's wholly owned brokerage operations and its marketing personnel, as well as through independent contractors such as real estate brokers who are compensated by means of customary real estate brokerage commissions. The Company may also continue to enter into joint ventures with third parties similar to those entered into in connection with the FireRock and RMCAL projects. Competition and Regulation and Other Industry Factors There is intense competition among companies in the real estate investment and development business. Sales and payments on real estate sales obligations depend, in part, on available financing and/or disposable income and, therefore, are affected by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. The real estate development and commercial real estate businesses are subject to other risks such as shifts in population, fluctuations in the real estate market, and unpredictable changes in the desirability of residential, commercial and industrial areas. The resort business of Palmas competes with similar businesses in the Caribbean, Florida and other vacation/holiday destinations. The Company's Arizona real estate operations compete with similar businesses in the areas in and surrounding Phoenix, Arizona, and the Company's Mirada development faces competition from other developments in the area, many with golf courses and other amenities. The Company's real estate operations are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local regulation. Applicable statutes and regulations may require disclosure of certain information concerning real estate developments and credit policies of the Company and its subsidiaries. Periodic approval is required from various agencies in connection with the design of developments, the nature and extent of improvements, construction activity, land use, zoning and numerous other matters. Failure to obtain such approval, or periodic renewal thereof, could adversely affect the real estate development and marketing operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. Various jurisdictions also require inspection of properties by appropriate authorities, approval of sales literature, disclosure to purchasers of specific information, bonding for property improvements, approval of real estate contract forms and delivery to purchasers of a report describing the property. Employees As of March 1, 2006, the Company's real estate operations had approximately 220 employees. Racing Operations General SHRP, Ltd. owns and operates Sam Houston Race Park, a Texas Class 1 horse racing facility located within the greater Houston metropolitan area and Valley Race Park, a greyhound racing facility located in Harlingen, Texas. In January 2004, a subsidiary of the Company applied to the Texas Racing Commission ("Racing Commission") for an additional license to construct and operate a Class 2 horse racing facility in Laredo, Texas. The review process is in the preliminary stages, and there can be no assurance that the Company will obtain this additional license as, among other things, there is a competing applicant. A hearing before a State administrative law judge to review both applications is scheduled to begin on March 27, 2006. Racing Operations and Facilities Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park offer pari-mutuel wagering on live thoroughbred, quarter horse and greyhound racing during meets approved by the Racing Commission on a yearly basis and on simulcast horse and greyhound racing throughout the year. Under the Texas Racing Act and related regulations (collectively, "Racing Act"), commission revenues for both facilities are a designated portion of the pari-mutuel handle. Sam Houston Race Park had 120 days of live racing in 2005 and currently has 110 days of live racing scheduled for 2006. Valley Race Park had 89 live racing days during 2005, and currently has 95 live racing days scheduled for 2006. Revenues are also earned on simulcast racing through both guest simulcast arrangements (the receipt by Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park of live broadcasts of racing being conducted other racetracks) and host simulcast arrangements (the live broadcast to other race tracks and off track wagering sites of racing being conducted at Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park). Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park also derive revenues from food and beverages sales, admission and parking fees, group sales and advertising sales. Regulation of Racing Operations The ownership and operation of horse and greyhound racetracks in Texas are subject to significant regulation by the Racing Commission under the Racing Act. The Racing Act provides, among other things, for the allocation of wagering proceeds among betting participants, purses, racetracks, the State of Texas and for other purposes, and empowers the Racing Commission to license and regulate substantially all aspects of horse and greyhound racing in the state. The Racing Commission must approve the number of live racing days that may be offered each year, as well as all simulcast agreements. Class 1 horse racetracks in Texas are entitled to conduct at least seventeen weeks of live racing for each breed of horses (thoroughbreds and quarter horses), while greyhound tracks are entitled to conduct live racing nearly year round. Marketing and Competition SHRP, Ltd.'s management believes that the majority of Sam Houston Race Park's patrons reside within a 25-mile radius, which includes most of the greater Houston metropolitan area, and that a secondary market of occasional patrons exists outside the 25-mile radius but within a 50-mile radius of the facility. Sam Houston Race Park uses a number of marketing strategies in an attempt to reach these people and make them more frequent visitors to Sam Houston Race Park. Recent changes to strategies include increased newspaper ad sizes, expansion of website capabilities, radio advertising, increased marketing of items offered outside of the racing product, a VIP program with exclusive promotional offers, and greater focus on casual and event-oriented customers. Valley Race Park employs similar strategies to attract patrons. Both Race Parks also rent out facilities and grounds for group events, which increase revenues and expose the facility to potential customers even though the events are often unrelated to racing. Sam Houston Race Park competes with other forms of wagering and entertainment, including a Louisiana "racino" (horse or dog tracks with slot machines or other forms of gaming) located approximately 120 miles from Houston, casinos located approximately 140 miles from Houston, a greyhound racetrack located 55 miles away, a wide range of sporting events and other entertainment activities in the Houston area, the Texas State Lottery, and charitable bingo. Other competitive pressures include simulcast signals broadcast by racinos, which are able to offer larger purses and competitive fields, resorts with gaming, and increasing use of the Internet for horse wagering and gaming, including Internet betting services with customer incentives such as cash rebates. Sam Houston Race Park could in the future also compete with other forms of gambling in Texas, including casino gambling on Indian reservations or otherwise. While Sam Houston Race Park believes that the location of Sam Houston Race Park is a competitive advantage over the other more distant gaming ventures mentioned above, the most significant challenges for Sam Houston Race Park are to maintain its customer base in spite of the above competitive pressures and to develop and educate new racing fans in a market where pari-mutuel wagering had been absent from the 1930's to 1994. Other competitive factors faced by Sam Houston Race Park include the allocation of sufficient live racing days by the Racing Commission and attraction of a sufficient number and quality of race horses to run at Sam Houston Race Park, particularly in view of the larger purses able to be offered by racinos. Competitive factors faced by Valley Race Park include the Texas State Lottery, charitable bingo and Internet-based gaming, as well as the attraction of sufficient greyhounds to run live racing, along with the ability of Valley Race Park to market its simulcast signal due to its brief live racing season. During the regular legislative session of the Texas Legislature that ended in May 2005 and two subsequent 30-day special sessions, a variety of alternatives were considered to address a projected budget shortfall, including enhancing state revenues through additional forms of gaming such as video lottery terminals at existing horse and dog racing tracks, gaming on Indian reservations, and full casinos. However, neither the regular session nor the two special sessions resulted in any such legislation. The Company intends to continue to vigorously pursue legislation favorable to it. A special session is expected to be called in 2006 and the next regular session of the Texas Legislature will begin in January of 2007. As some legislation may require the approval of two-thirds of each legislative house and a majority of the state's voters, no assurance can be given that any such legislation will be enacted or become effective. Moreover, it is impossible to determine what the provisions of any such legislation would be or its effect on the Company. Employees As of March 1, 2006, the Company's racing operations had approximately 370 full and part-time employees and approximately 330 additional seasonal employees. Kaiser Aluminum The Company and its subsidiary, MAXXAM Group Holdings Inc. ("MGHI"), collectively own 50,000,000 shares of common stock of Kaiser, which represent approximately 63% of Kaiser's common stock. In 2002-2003, Kaiser and a number of its subsidiaries filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Kaiser's plan of reorganization, which provides for the cancellation of the equity interests of current shareholders without consideration or obligation, was confirmed by the Kaiser Bankruptcy Court in February 2006. However, Kaiser's plan of reorganization is not yet final, as it must still be approved by the U.S. District Court before Kaiser can emerge from Chapter 11, and is also subject to appeal. See Note 10 for additional information regarding the Debtors' reorganization proceedings and related matters. Also see Item 3. "Legal Proceedings-Kaiser Litigation, " Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition and Investing and Financing Activities-Kaiser's Operations," and "-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Principles of Consolidation-Deconsolidation of Kaiser" and Note 10. Segment Information See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations" and Note 3 for additional information regarding revenues, income or loss, and total assets of the Company's three segments, as well as revenues from the principal products offered by each. None of the Company's segments have material foreign sales or assets. Employees At March 1, 2006, MAXXAM and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,580 year-round and seasonal employees (excluding those employed by Kaiser), none of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital Resources of Our Forest Products Subsidiaries ScoPac is highly leveraged and its debt service requirements are substantial. As of December 31, 2005, ScoPac's indebtedness totaled $774.4 million, consisting of approximately $743.1 million principal amount of Timber Notes and approximately $31.3 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness under its Line of Credit ("ScoPac Line of Credit"). ScoPac's annual interest payments on its Timber Notes are approximately $54.0 million. ScoPac's annual cash flows from operations are expected to be substantially below the minimum levels necessary to satisfy its debt service obligations over at least the next several years. The Company expects that ScoPac's cash flows from operations, together with funds available under the ScoPac Line of Credit, will be insufficient, by a substantial amount, to pay the interest on the Timber Notes due on the July 20, 2006, payment date. ScoPac also expects to incur principal and interest shortfalls for at least the next several years. ScoPac's failure to pay interest on the Timber Notes when due would constitute an event of default under the Timber Notes Indenture. If ScoPac's efforts to address its liquidity issues are unsuccessful, ScoPac may default on interest payments on its Timber Notes. For ScoPac to avoid defaulting on interest payments on its Timber Notes, ScoPac must successfully implement one or more strategies beyond the ordinary course of business, such as the following: o Restructure its Timber Notes to decrease its minimum payment obligations. ScoPac in 2005 devoted considerable resources in an attempt to restructure the Timber Notes. Those efforts were unsuccessful, and ScoPac does not currently expect to restructure its required minimum payments on its Timber Notes through negotiations with holders of the Timber Notes. o Obtain significant regulatory relief and accommodations in order to increase its harvest levels and ease its regulatory costs. Various regulatory actions have substantially reduced ScoPac's timber harvest and increased its costs, reducing cash flows from operations. ScoPac may not be able to obtain any significant regulatory relief or accommodations. o Further reduce its expenditures, by laying off employees and shutting down operations. ScoPac has already eliminated a substantial portion of the personnel and operations it believes can be eliminated consistent with performing its obligations under the Timber Notes Indenture and otherwise. As a result, ScoPac has very limited capacity to further reduce operating costs. o Avoid incurring new liquidity, cash flow or operational problems as a result of regulatory, litigation or other developments. ScoPac cannot control or predict the results of its pending, or potential additional future, regulatory and litigation proceedings and matters. o Seek and obtain other timely sources of liquidity, such as from asset sales. ScoPac's efforts to seek other sources of liquidity, most importantly through the ScoPac Land Sale Program (as defined in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition and Investing and Financing Activities Forest Products Operations ScoPac Liquidity Issues."), may not be completed in time or at sufficient levels to enable ScoPac to generate the cash required in order to avoid defaulting on its Timber Notes and the ScoPac Line of Credit. Regulatory approvals will be required in connection with the ScoPac Land Sale Program, and these approvals may not be timely received. If ScoPac's efforts to increase its cash flow are unsuccessful or untimely, ScoPac may default on the Timber Notes and the ScoPac Line of Credit or seek protection by filing under the Bankruptcy Code. In that event, all principal, interest and other amounts related to the Timber Notes may become immediately due and payable and the ScoPac Line of Credit debt may also be accelerated. If these accelerations occur, the trustee under the Timber Notes Indenture ("Trustee") may exercise all rights under the Timber Notes Indenture and related security documents, including applying funds to pay accelerated amounts, and selling the ScoPac Timber and other assets and using the proceeds to pay accelerated amounts. A ScoPac bankruptcy could adversely affect Palco by, among other things, adversely affecting the supply of logs that Palco is able to purchase from ScoPac and/or by increasing the price of those logs. Palco is highly leveraged and is currently in default under its debt facilities. Palco is highly leveraged. Moreover, due to financial covenant breaches, Palco and Britt are currently in default under their $35 million term loan agreement ("Palco Term Loan") and their $30 million credit facility ("Palco Revolving Credit Facility"). Palco and Britt may be unable to obtain waivers of these defaults from the lenders under these two facilities. Palco and Britt may be unable to obtain waivers of these defaults from the lenders under these two facilities, which are secured by liens on substantially all of their assets except for Palco's equity interest in ScoPac. Without waivers of these defaults, the lenders may exercise a variety of rights and remedies, such as reducing the amount of funds available for borrowing under the Palco Revolving Credit Facility, declaring any or all loans and other amounts owed under the Palco Term Loan and the Palco Revolving Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable, and exercising all rights to collateral. Palco may be adversely affected by an inability to obtain additional liquidity or timely complete asset sales. In an effort to reduce its overall debt load, Palco is in the process of marketing certain assets ("Palco Asset Sale Program") and seeking other sources of liquidity. Palco may not be able to obtain additional liquidity and may not be able to timely complete the Palco Asset Sale Program. Regulatory approvals required to complete the program could delay receipt of liquidity from the program. ScoPac may not be able to sell its logs to third parties. Although it is currently contemplated that all or substantially all of ScoPac's revenues will be derived from the sale of logs to Palco, should Palco be unable to continue to purchase all of ScoPac's logs, ScoPac would need to seek third party purchasers. Such purchasers may not be available or, if available, such purchasers may not acquire sufficient quantities of logs on terms that would allow ScoPac to generate cash flow equivalent to what sales to Palco would have generated. A Palco bankruptcy or default on its payment obligations to ScoPac would imperil ScoPac's ability to fund its cash needs and could cause ScoPac to default on its Timber Notes obligations. Amounts on deposit in the SAR Account may not be sufficient to fund anticipated Timber Notes amortization in January 2007. Amounts on deposit in the SAR Account are used on each Timber Notes payment date, as needed, to make principal payments on the Timber Notes sufficient to reduce outstanding principal to an amount specified by the Timber Notes Indenture. ScoPac anticipates that the amount needed to reduce the principal of the Timber Notes to the specified amount on the January 20, 2007, Timber Notes payment date will be approximately $21.7 million. ScoPac projects that the SAR Account will at that time contain approximately $8.0 million, together with the amount of cash, if any, realized by that date from sale of the approximately $55.4 million (face amount) of Timber Notes held in the SAR Account (at December 31, 2005). ScoPac may not be able to sell these Timber Notes by January 2007 because, among other things, the Timber Notes are thinly traded instruments. Even if ScoPac is able to sell these Timber Notes, the net proceeds are currently expected to be significantly less than their face amount. If the amount on deposit in the SAR Account on a Timber Notes payment date is less than what is needed to reduce outstanding principal to the amount specified by the Timber Notes Indenture, only the lesser amount on deposit in the SAR Account is required to be paid as a principal payment on the Timber Notes. Palco's high levels of debt and covenant restrictions increase the difficulty of operating its business. Palco's high level of debt and covenant restrictions under the Palco Term Loan and Palco Revolving Credit Facility could have a variety of important negative consequences, including: o limiting its ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of its operating strategies or other purposes; o increasing its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; o limiting its ability to capitalize on business opportunities, such as purchasing additional log inventories from third parties, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse government regulation and litigation developments; and o limiting its ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness. ScoPac's high level of debt could similarly have important negative consequences, including: o limiting its ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of its business because it must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service its debt; o increasing its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and o limiting its ability to respond to adverse government regulation and litigation developments. Any of these or other factors could further exacerbate the liquidity difficulties being experienced by Palco and ScoPac. The need to purchase third party logs will increase Palco's working capital requirements. Palco expects that it will in the future be required to increase the percentage of logs it purchases from third parties. These purchases may not be available, or may be available on terms that are not acceptable or are significantly adverse to Palco. Palco's working capital needs are likely to increase substantially during 2006 and beyond to accommodate these increased purchases of third party logs. Palco may not be able to obtain this additional working capital, given its liquidity problems. ScoPac's and Palco's liquidity issues could result in claims and potential liabilities for certain affiliates. The liquidity issues being experienced by Palco and ScoPac could result in claims against and could have adverse impacts on MAXXAM Parent, MGHI and/or MGI. For example, were Palco to terminate its pension plan, MAXXAM Parent and its wholly owned subsidiaries would be jointly and severally liable for any unfunded pension plan obligations (estimated to be approximately $31.0 million at December 31, 2005). In addition, it is possible that actions by creditors, or transactions that might be entered into in connection with a potential restructuring or reorganization of Palco or ScoPac, could require the utilization of all or a substantial portion of, or the loss of a significant portion of, the Company's net operating losses or other tax attributes for federal and state income tax purposes and could require tax payments. Risks Related to Forest Products Regulatory Matters Regulatory and legislative actions have the power to limit ScoPac's harvest levels and require ScoPac and Palco to incur additional costs and have other adverse consequences. Regulatory and legislative actions, among others, are now having, or have the potential to have material adverse impacts on ScoPac and Palco: o The North Coast Water Board has failed to release for harvest a number of ScoPac's previously-approved THPs, reducing current and projected harvest levels significantly. Continued failure of the North Coast Water Board to release THPs for harvest would worsen the cash flow difficulties of Palco and ScoPac. o The final TMDL requirements applicable to the ScoPac Timber Property may require aquatic protection measures that are different from or in addition to those in the HCP or that result from the watershed analysis process provided for in the HCP. These requirements may further reduce the cash flows of ScoPac and Palco. o The North Coast Water Board has issued the Elk River Order, which is aimed at addressing existing sediment production sites through clean up actions in the Elk River watershed, and has initiated the process which could result in similar orders for other watersheds. The Elk River Order has resulted in increased costs that could extend over a number of years, and additional orders for other watersheds could have similar effects. o The North Coast Water Board has imposed requirements for certain mitigation and erosion control practices in several watersheds within the ScoPac Timber Property. The requirements imposed to date have significantly increased operating costs. Additional requirements imposed in the future could further increase costs and cause delays in THP approvals. o The staff of the North Coast Water Board has circulated for public review and comment draft WWDRs for the Freshwater and Elk River watersheds. If these draft WWDRs are approved in their current form, there would likely be a further significant adverse impact on current and future harvest levels and the cash flows of both ScoPac and Palco. o The Company is uncertain of the operational and financial effects that will ultimately result from Senate Bill 810. Implementation of this law could, however, result in delays in obtaining approvals of THPs, lower harvest levels and increased costs and additional protection measures beyond those contained in the HCP. o The designation of a species as endangered or threatened under the ESA or the CESA can significantly reduce ScoPac's and Palco's harvest levels if that species inhabits the Palco Timberlands or if the habitat of the Palco Timberlands is deemed favorable to the species. While the HCP covers 17 different species, it is possible that additional species could be designated as endangered or threatened under both the ESA and the CESA o Laws, regulations and related judicial decisions and administrative interpretations dealing with forest products operations are subject to change and new laws and regulations are frequently introduced concerning the California timber industry. From time to time, bills are introduced or ballot initiatives commenced relating to the Company's forest products operations. Risks Related to Litigation Litigation proceedings could result in adverse effects on the Company's forest products operations. Palco and ScoPac are involved in a variety of pending legal proceedings. Some of these legal proceedings, were they to be decided against the companies, could have an adverse effect upon them, which effect could under certain circumstances be materially adverse to their financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Moreover, additional legal proceedings could be filed against Palco and ScoPac, further increasing litigation costs and subjecting the companies to potential adverse decisions. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings Forest Products Litigation." Risks Related to the Timber Industry Adverse weather conditions restrict Palco's ability to harvest timber and deliver logs to its log decks and to its customers, adversely affecting Palco's and ScoPac's cash flows. Wet weather conditions restrict Palco's ability to harvest using efficient logging methods and deliver timber. Palco's use of inefficient logging methods, such as helicopter logging, decreases ScoPac's revenues, and increases Palco's costs and reduces its operating margins. The cyclical nature of ScoPac's and Palco's businesses could adversely affect their results of operations. Historically, lumber prices have been subject to wide swings in price. The demand for lumber is affected primarily by the level of new construction activity and, to a lesser extent, remodeling and repair activity, and other industrial uses. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors: o changes in domestic and international economic conditions; o interest rates; o population growth and changing demographics; and o seasonal weather cycles (e.g., dry summers, wet winters) and other weather driven events. Decreases in the level of residential construction activity or repair and remodeling activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. In addition, timber owners generally increase production volumes for logs and products during favorable price environments. Such increased production, however, when coupled with declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices. The ability to harvest timber may be subject to other limitations which could adversely affect operations. In addition to the limitations resulting from regulatory requirements and litigation proceedings described above, there are many factors that could restrict the ability to harvest on the Palco Timberlands, including: o damage by fire, insect infestation, or disease; o prolonged drought; o natural disasters; o timber growth cycles; o weather conditions and o availability of contract loggers. We do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to the Palco Timberlands. Competition in the forest products business could materially adversely affect our net sales and our market share. The forest products business is highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of: o price; o service; o product availability; and o product quality. Our lumber products compete not only with other wood products which are often times less expensive but with metals, masonry, plastic and other construction materials made from non-renewable resources. Competitive considerations, such as total industry production and competitors' pricing, as well as the price of other construction products, affect the sales prices for our lumber products. Competition in the common grade redwood and Douglas-fir lumber market is intense, and we compete with numerous large and small lumber producers. An increase in the amount of competition that we face could have a material adverse effect on our forest product revenues. The loss of key customers would reduce Palco's cash flows. Palco has one customer that accounted for 16% of its revenues in 2005. The loss of key customers would adversely impact Palco's cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Real Estate Operations Revenues for our real estate operations are expected to decline for the foreseeable future. In 2005, our real estate operations realized substantial revenues related to sales of residential lots and acreage at our Fountain Hills, Mirada and Palmas developments. As the proceeds from these asset sales have not been redeployed in other real estate assets, this level of sales activity is not expected to recur for the foreseeable future. Real estate development is a cyclical industry and is affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. The real estate development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, including: o Employment levels and population shifts; o Interest rates and availability of financing; o Consumer confidence; and o Changes in the desirability of residential and commercial areas. Development of a project begins, and financial and other resources are committed, long before a real estate project comes to market, which could occur at a time when the real estate market is depressed. Our real estate operations are subject to various land use regulations and governmental approvals. The Company's real estate operations are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local regulation concerning zoning, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, and construction. Periodic approval is required from various agencies in connection with various matters. Certain jurisdictions also require the inspection of properties, approval of sales literature, disclosure to purchasers of specific information, bonding for property improvements, and approval of real estate contract forms. Failure to comply with such regulations and requirements to obtain any such approvals could adversely affect the Company's real estate operations. The land use approval processes we must follow to ultimately develop our projects have become increasingly complex. Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge the proposed plans and approvals, which would result in additional costs and delays in obtaining approvals or bringing a development to market, and could result in litigation outcomes unfavorable to the Company in a variety of ways such as affecting the timing, design, completion, scope, plans and profitability of a project. We are in competition with other developments for customers and residents. There is intense competition among companies in the real estate investment and development business. Our Palmas acreage sales and resort operations compete with similar businesses in the Caribbean, Florida and other vacation/holiday destinations, and our developments and operations in Arizona face increased competition in the area. Our Mirada development faces competition from both existing and future developments, many with golf courses and other amenities. Claims relating to infrastructure obligations could be filed against our real estate operations. Our real estate operations rely on third party contractors to complete various contractual infrastructure requirements at its real estate developments, such as installing electrical lines, piping, water tanks, drainage and roads. The failure of the contractors to perform or their faulty workmanship could result in claims against the Company's real estate operations. Risks Relating to Our Racing Operations The significant competition we face from other gaming and entertainment operations can be expected to continue adversely affecting the racing segment's operating performance. Sam Houston Race Park competes with many other forms of wagering and entertainment, including Louisiana gaming facilities, a nearby greyhound racetrack, the Texas State Lottery, bingo and a wide range of sporting events and other entertainment activities. Other competitive pressures include simulcast signals broadcast by race tracks able to offer larger purses and competitive fields, resorts with gaming, and increasing use of the Internet for horse wagering and gaming, including Internet betting services with customer incentives such as cash rebates. Future risks include approval of new forms of gaming in Texas or elsewhere. Our racing operations are also affected by the allocation of sufficient live racing days by the Racing Commission and their ability to attract a sufficient number and quality of race horses and greyhounds. Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park face a substantial challenge to maintain and grow their customer base in light of these competitive pressures. It will be difficult to obtain legislation that would allow our racing operations to increase their revenues. The Company's two racing facilities would be able to increase their revenues, likely to a substantial degree, were additional forms of gaming to be allowed at our existing horse and dog racing tracks. The Company and other industry participants have pursued legislation that would permit video lottery terminals at Texas tracks during prior regular sessions of the Texas Legislature and two special sessions in 2005. None of these sessions resulted in the passage of such legislation. While we intend to continue vigorously pursuing legislation favorable to our racing operations, no assurances can be given that it will be enacted or become effective as some legislation may require the approval of two-thirds of each legislative house and a majority of Texas voters. Moreover, it is impossible to determine what the provisions of any such legislation would be or its ultimate effect on our racing operations. Other Risk Factors Claims could arise from prior acquisitions by the Company. The Company or its affiliates have over time acquired a variety of properties or entities, some with long operating histories. These properties and entities may be subject to environmental or other liabilities that were not identified at the time of acquisition. Any such claims would likely be costly to defend and their settlement or other resolution could potentially have a material adverse effect upon the Company's financial condition, results of operation or liquidity. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could adversely affect various operations of the Company. In addition to the fire and other risks associated with the Company's timber operations, the Company's other operations are subject to risks from natural disasters and other catastrophic events. For instance, the Company's Palmas resort in Puerto Rico, as well as its racing operations at Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park, are particularly subject to damage from hurricanes. The Company's Mirada development and its forest products operations in Scotia and Arcata, California are particularly subject to the risk of earthquakes. The Scotia-based lumber operations are also subject to a special risk of flooding from the Eel River, which is adjacent to the mill. Moreover, all of the Company's operations are subject to general risks such as fire or adverse weather conditions. Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results We have insurance coverage against a variety of operating hazards including business interruption, liability and other losses to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available, but the nature and amount of that insurance may not be sufficient to fully cover liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. Insurance does not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations would be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, efforts and availability of our management and employees. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills or the unionization of our workforce could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations or growth. Given the severe operating problems experienced by Palco and ScoPac, we may find it even more difficult to retain employees at these subsidiaries, especially in view of their remote location relative to large population centers. Compliance with and changes in laws and regulations and risks from legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results Our operations can be affected by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Changes that could affect the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations. Changes that affect the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax rates or tax laws that could have a variety of effects, including, by way of example, the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits could have a significant financial impact on the Company. MAXXAM Parent's investment portfolio could be adversely affected by market conditions and other factors. MAXXAM Parent has substantial assets invested in a variety of liquid money market instruments; U.S. corporate debt securities, U.S. treasury obligations and other debt securities; and equity interests in several limited partnerships which invest in diversified portfolios of common stocks and equity securities, in addition to exchange-traded options, futures, forward foregoing currency contracts, and other arbitrage opportunities. While MAXXAM Parent tries to minimize its risk with respect to its investment portfolio, there can be no assurance that a variety of market and other factors, such as interest rate changes and general market fluctuations, will not adversely affect the performance of MAXXAM Parent's investment portfolio. Our Chairman controls the election of the Company's Board of Directors. Charles E. Hurwitz, the Company's Chairman of the Board, controls a majority of the Company's common stock ("Common Stock") and 75.0% of the Company's total combined voting power. As a result, Mr. Hurwitz is able to control the election of the Company's Board of Directors and controls the vote on virtually all matters which might be submitted to a vote of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 