Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements of Operations Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Items 10-14. To be filed with the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement Part IV Item 15. Exhibits Signatures Index of Exhibits Glossary of Defined Terms PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General MAXXAM Inc. and its controlled subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company” or “MAXXAM” unless otherwise indicated or the context indicates otherwise. Any reference herein to a company includes the subsidiaries of that company unless otherwise noted or the context indicates otherwise. The term “MAXXAM Parent” refers to the Company on a stand-alone basis without its subsidiaries. The term “MGHI” refers to MAXXAM Group Holdings Inc., which is the parent of MAXXAM Group Inc. (see below). Some terms used herein are defined in the Glossary of Defined Terms found at the end of this document. The Company conducts the substantial portion of its operations through its subsidiaries, which operate in three principal industries: • Real estate investment and development, through MAXXAM Property Company (“MPC”) and other wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, as well as joint ventures. These subsidiaries are engaged in the business of residential and commercial real estate investment and development, primarily in Arizona, California, Puerto Rico and Texas, including associated golf course or resort operations in certain locations, and also own several commercial real estate properties that are subject to long-term lease arrangements. • Racing operations, through Sam Houston Race Park, Ltd. (“SHRP, Ltd.”), a Texas limited partnership wholly owned by the Company. SHRP, Ltd. owns and operates a Texas Class 1 pari-mutuel horse racing facility in the greater Houston metropolitan area, and a pari-mutuel greyhound racing facility in Harlingen, Texas. • Forest products, through MAXXAM Group Inc. (“MGI”) and MGI’s wholly owned subsidiaries, principally The Pacific Lumber Company (“Palco”), Scotia Pacific Company LLC (“Scopac”), Britt Lumber Co., Inc. (“Britt”) and Scotia Development LLC (“SDLLC”). MGI and its subsidiaries primarily engage in the growing and harvesting of redwood and Douglas-fir timber, the milling of logs into lumber and related operations and activities. On January 18, 2007, Palco, Scopac, Britt, SDLLC and Palco’s other subsidiaries (the “Debtors”) filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”) in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas (the “Bankruptcy Court”). See Note 1, “–Reorganization Proceedings of Palco and its Subsidiaries.” Except as otherwise indicated, all references herein to “Notes” represent the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”). These statements appear in a number of places (for example, under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” and several sections under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “estimates,” “should,” “could,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects,” “seeks,” or “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve significant risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may vary materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. These factors include the effectiveness of management’s strategies and decisions, general economic and business conditions, developments in technology, the ability to obtain financing, new or modified statutory, environmental or regulatory requirements, litigation developments, and changing prices and market conditions. This Report identifies other factors which could cause differences between such forward-looking statements and actual results. These or other factors could cause actual results to vary materially from the forward-looking statements. Real Estate Operations General The Company, principally through its wholly owned subsidiaries, and joint ventures, owns, invests in and develops residential and commercial real estate, primarily in Puerto Rico, Arizona, California and Texas. Real estate properties and receivables as of December 31, 2007 are as follows: Book Value as of December 31, 2007 (In millions) Palmas del Mar (Puerto Rico): Undeveloped land and parcels held for sale 988 acres $ 31.8 Property, plant and equipment, receivables and other, net 6.1 Total 37.9 Resort operations - Palmas Country Club (1) 17.4 Total 55.3 Fountain Hills (Arizona): Residential developed lots and lots under development 124 lots 19.1 Undeveloped residential land 431 acres 4.6 Property, plant, equipment and receivables, net 1.2 Total 24.9 Mirada (California): Residential developed lots 3 lots 1.1 Property, plant, equipment and receivables, net 0.1 Total 1.2 Commercial lease properties: Property, plant and equipment, net: Lake Pointe Plaza (Texas) 100.1 Cooper Cameron building (Texas) 25.9 Motel 6 facilities (10 states) 37.7 Other 2.7 Total 166.4 Other, principally receivables 0.1 Total real estate properties and receivables $ 247.9 (1) Palmas Country Club operations include two 18-hole golf courses, a 20-court tennis facility, a member clubhouse, and a beach club. Amounts shown are net of accumulated depreciation. Book Value as of December 31, 2007 (In millions) Joint Ventures: FireRock, LLC: Golf course, clubhouse and other club facilities(1) $ 13.8 Other property, plant and equipment, net(1) 2.3 Total 16.1 Investment in FireRock, LLC(2) $ 0.4 RMCAL Development LP: Residential units under development $ 32.4 Investment in RMCAL Development LP(2) $ 4.0 (1) Amounts reflect 100% of the book value of the joint venture’s assets. (2) Amounts reflect the book value of the Company’s 50% interest. Revenues from real estate operations were as follows in 2007 and 2006 (see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Results of Operations–Real Estate Operations” for additional details regarding 2007, 2006 and 2005 results): Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (In millions) Palmas del Mar: Real estate sales $ 0.3 $ 27.6 Commercial, resort operations and other 11.7 12.5 Total 12.0 40.1 Fountain Hills: Real estate sales 7.7 15.6 Commercial operations and other 3.3 3.7 Total 11.0 19.3 Mirada: Real estate sales 3.0 26.6 Commercial operations and other 0.1 0.3 Total 3.1 26.9 Commercial lease properties: Lake Pointe Plaza 11.1 11.1 Cooper Cameron building 2.3 2.3 Motel 6 facilities 4.8 4.8 Other 0.2 0.2 Total 18.4 18.4 Other: Commercial operations and other 0.2 0.2 Total 0.2 0.2 Total $ 44.7 $ 104.9 FireRock, LLC(1): Golf course operations $ 4.0 $ 3.7 RMCAL Development LP(1): Real estate sales $ 17.1 $ 9.1 (1) Amounts reflect 100% of the joint venture’s revenues. Palmas del Mar Palmas del Mar, a master-planned residential community and resort located on the southeastern coast of Puerto Rico near Humacao (“Palmas”), was acquired by a subsidiary of the Company in 1984. Originally over 2,700 acres, as of December 31, 2007, Palmas had approximately 1,000 acres of undeveloped land remaining. The Company conducts its operations at Palmas through Palmas del Mar Properties, Inc. (“PDMPI”) and PDMPI’s subsidiaries. PDMPI seeks developers and investors to acquire its acreage. Resort operations at Palmas include a country club with two golf courses and tennis and beach club facilities. Certain other amenities, including a hotel, marina, equestrian center and various restaurants, are owned and operated by third parties. Fountain Hills In 1968, a subsidiary of the Company purchased and began developing approximately 12,100 acres of real property in Fountain Hills, Arizona, which is located near Phoenix and adjacent to Scottsdale, Arizona. Development of Fountain Hills is substantially complete. Future sales are expected to consist of fully developed lots in two developments known as Eagles Nest and Adero Canyon. Eagles Nest, a 506-acre custom lot development planned to include 245 lots, commenced sales in 2004. Lots are being released in phases, with 11 lots and 12 lots having been sold in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Development plans have been formulated for Adero Canyon, a 431-acre custom lot development planned to include 171 lots. Financing of the Adero Canyon development is expected to be accomplished either through new or existing credit facilities or joint venture arrangements. In 1998, a subsidiary of the Company entered into and holds a 50% interest in a joint venture named FireRock, LLC (“FireRock, LLC”) to develop an 808-acre area in Fountain Hills known as FireRock Country Club. The development is a residential, golf-oriented, upscale master-planned community consisting of custom lots, multi-family parcels and a private country club and associated championship-level private 18-hole golf course. While all of the multi-family parcels and custom lots have been sold, the venture continues to own and operate the country club. Mirada In 1991, a subsidiary of the Company acquired Mirada, a 220-acre luxury resort residential project located in Rancho Mirage, California. Mirada is a master-planned community in the Santa Rosa Mountains, 650 feet above the Coachella Valley floor. The Company’s direct development activities at the project are complete. The first of the project’s six parcels was a custom lot subdivision of 46 estate lots. The Ritz Carlton Rancho Mirage Hotel, which is owned and operated by a third party, was developed on the second parcel. The third parcel is a custom lot subdivision consisting of 63 estate lots. Sales of these lots began in 2003, and as of December 31, 2007, all but 2 lots had been sold. Two other parcels, encompassing approximately 39 acres, were sold in 2005. In April 2004, a subsidiary of the Company and a third party real estate development company formed a joint venture named RMCAL Development LP (“RMCAL”) to develop the final parcel, a 27-acre residential tract. In connection with the formation of RMCAL, the Company sold a 50% interest in the parcel and contributed the remainder of the parcel to the joint venture in return for a 50% interest in the venture. RMCAL will construct and sell 46 villas to be built on the parcel. Eleven villas and one lot had been sold through 2007. Eleven other villas have either been completed or are under construction. Commercial Lease Properties In June 2001, subsidiaries of the Company acquired Lake Pointe Plaza, an office complex located in Sugar Land, Texas, for a purchase price of $131.3 million. The transaction was financed by the subsidiaries through the issuance of $122.5 million of non-recourse notes and the balance from available cash. The office complex is fully leased to affiliates of the seller through May 2021 and the parent company has guaranteed all of the lease payments. In November 2002, a subsidiary of the Company acquired the Cooper Cameron building, an office building located in Houston, Texas, for a purchase price of $32.7 million. The transaction was financed by the subsidiary through a cash payment of $3.0 million and the issuance of $29.7 million in non-recourse notes. At the time of the acquisition, the subsidiary simultaneously leased the property back to the seller for a period of 22 years. In December 2002, a subsidiary of the Company acquired two business trusts which own a portfolio of sixteen motel properties located in ten different states. The purchase price consisted of a cash payment of $3.5 million and the assumption of certain non-recourse notes with an outstanding principal balance of $49.4 million secured by the properties. The properties were acquired subject to an existing lease agreement under which the properties are fully leased through April 2019, and under which all obligations are guaranteed by the parent company of the current tenant. Marketing The Company is engaged in marketing and sales programs of varying magnitudes at its real estate developments. The Company intends to continue selling undeveloped acreage and semi-developed parcels, generally to builders and developers, and fully developed lots to individuals and builders. Sales are made directly to purchasers through the Company’s wholly owned brokerage operations and its marketing personnel, as well as through independent contractors such as real estate brokers who are compensated by means of customary real estate brokerage commissions. The Company may also continue to enter into joint ventures with third parties similar to those entered into in connection with the FireRock and RMCAL projects. Competition and Regulation and Other Industry Factors There is intense competition among companies in the real estate investment and development business. Sales and payments on real estate sales obligations depend, in part, on available financing and/or disposable income and, therefore, are affected by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. The real estate development and commercial real estate businesses are subject to other risks such as shifts in population, fluctuations in the real estate market, and unpredictable changes in the desirability of residential, commercial and industrial areas. The resort business of Palmas competes with similar businesses in the Caribbean, Florida and other vacation/holiday destinations. The Company’s Arizona real estate operations compete with similar businesses in the areas in and surrounding Phoenix, Arizona, and the Company’s Mirada development faces competition from other developments in the area, many with golf courses and other amenities. The Company’s real estate operations are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local regulation. Applicable statutes and regulations may require disclosure of certain information concerning real estate developments and credit policies of the Company and its subsidiaries. Periodic approval is required from various agencies in connection with the design of developments, the nature and extent of improvements, construction activity, land use, zoning and numerous other matters. Failure to obtain such approval, or periodic renewal thereof, could adversely affect the real estate development and marketing operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. Various jurisdictions also require inspection of properties by appropriate authorities, approval of sales literature, disclosure to purchasers of specific information, bonding for property improvements, approval of real estate contract forms and delivery to purchasers of a report describing the property. Employees As of March 1, 2008, the Company’s real estate operations had approximately 210 employees. Racing Operations General The Company indirectly owns SHRP, Ltd., which owns and operates Sam Houston Race Park, a Texas Class 1 horse racing facility located within the greater Houston metropolitan area and Valley Race Park, a greyhound racing facility located in Harlingen, Texas. In January 2004, a subsidiary of the Company, Laredo Race Park LLC (“Laredo LLC”), applied to the Texas Racing Commission (the “Racing Commission”) for an additional license to construct and operate a Class 2 horse racing facility in Laredo, Texas. Following a hearing on Laredo LLC’s application and that of a competing applicant, in September 2006, two state administrative law judges recommended to the Racing Commission that Laredo LLC be awarded the license. The Racing Commission on March 20, 2007 ruled that both Laredo LLC and the competing applicant be awarded licenses for the Laredo area. The Racing Commission later awarded Laredo LLC its license, effective as of September 1, 2007. Racing Operations and Facilities Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park offer pari-mutuel wagering on live thoroughbred, quarter horse and greyhound racing during meets approved by the Racing Commission on a yearly basis and on simulcast horse and greyhound racing throughout the year. Under the Texas Racing Act and related regulations (the “Racing Act”), commission revenues for both facilities are a designated portion of the pari-mutuel handle. Sam Houston Race Park had 104 days of live racing in 2007, and has 96 of live racing days scheduled for 2008. Valley Race Park had 99 live racing days during 2007, and has 90 live racing days scheduled for 2008. Revenues are also earned on simulcast racing through both guest simulcast arrangements (the receipt by Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park of live broadcasts of racing conducted at other racetracks) and host simulcast arrangements (the live broadcast to other race tracks and off-track wagering sites of racing conducted at Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park). Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park also derive revenues from food and beverage sales, admission and parking fees, group sales and advertising sales. Regulation of Racing Operations The ownership and operation of horse and greyhound racetracks in Texas are subject to significant regulation by the Racing Commission under the Racing Act. The Racing Act provides, among other things, for the allocation of wagering proceeds among betting participants, purses, racetracks, the State of Texas and for other purposes, and empowers the Racing Commission to license and regulate substantially all aspects of horse and greyhound racing in the state. The Racing Commission must approve the number of live racing days that may be offered each year, as well as all simulcast agreements. Class 1 horse racetracks in Texas are entitled to conduct at least seventeen weeks of live racing for each breed of horses (thoroughbreds and quarter horses), while greyhound tracks are entitled to conduct live racing nearly year round. Marketing and Competition SHRP, Ltd.’s management believes that the majority of Sam Houston Race Park’s patrons reside within a 25 mile radius, which includes most of the greater Houston metropolitan area, and that a secondary market of occasional patrons exists outside the 25 mile radius but within a 50 mile radius of the facility. Sam Houston Race Park uses a number of marketing strategies in an attempt to reach these people and make them more frequent visitors to Sam Houston Race Park. Recent strategic changes include increased newspaper ad sizes, expansion of website capabilities, radio advertising, increased marketing of items offered outside of the racing product, a VIP program with exclusive promotional offers, and greater focus on casual and event-oriented customers. Valley Race Park employs similar strategies to attract patrons. Both Race Parks also rent out facilities and grounds for group events, which increase revenues and expose the facility to potential customers even though the events are often unrelated to racing. In an effort to increase attendance on days with live racing, Sam Houston Race Park in June 2007 expanded and enhanced its summer concert series, including improving its facilities to allow the concerts to be held on the race track’s infield. Sam Houston Race Park competes with other forms of wagering and entertainment, including a Louisiana “racino” (horse or dog tracks with slot machines or other forms of gaming) located approximately 120 miles from Houston, casinos located approximately 140 miles from Houston, a greyhound racetrack located 55 miles away from Houston, a wide range of sporting events and other entertainment activities in the Houston area, the Texas State Lottery, and charitable bingo. Other competitive pressures include simulcast signals broadcast by racinos, which are able to offer larger purses and competitive fields, resorts with gaming, and increasing use of the Internet for horse wagering and gaming, including Internet betting services with customer incentives such as cash rebates. Sam Houston Race Park could in the future also compete with other forms of gambling in Texas, including casino gambling on Indian reservations elsewhere. While Sam Houston Race Park believes that the location of Sam Houston Race Park is a competitive advantage over the other more distant gaming ventures mentioned above, the most significant challenges for Sam Houston Race Park are to maintain its customer base in spite of the above competitive pressures and to develop and educate new racing fans in a market where pari-mutuel wagering had been absent from the 1930’s to 1994. Other competitive factors faced by Sam Houston Race Park include the allocation of sufficient live racing days by the Racing Commission and attraction of a sufficient number and quality of race horses to run at Sam Houston Race Park, particularly in view of the larger purses able to be offered by racinos. Competitive factors faced by Valley Race Park include the Texas State Lottery, charitable bingo and Internet-based gaming, as well as the attraction of sufficient greyhounds to run live racing, along with the ability of Valley Race Park to market its simulcast signal due to its brief live racing season. The Texas Legislature convenes its regular session every other year. It is expected that this body will, during the next regular legislative session that begins in January 2009 and lasts through May 2009, consider measures to enhance state revenues though additional forms of gaming such as video lottery terminals at existing horse and dog racing tracks, gaming on Indian reservations, and full casinos. The Company will vigorously pursue any legislation that is favorable to it. As some legislation would require the approval of two-thirds of each legislative house and a majority of Texas voters, no assurance can be given that any such legislation will be enacted or become effective. Moreover, it is impossible to determine what the provisions of any such legislation would be or its effect on the Company. Employees As of March 1, 2008, the Company’s racing operations had approximately 360 full and part-time employees and approximately 610 additional seasonal employees. Forest Products Operations Reorganization Proceedings of Palco and its Subsidiaries Bankruptcy Filings On January 18, 2007, (the “Filing Date”), Palco and its five wholly owned subsidiaries, including Scopac, filed the Bankruptcy Cases, separate voluntary petitions in the Bankruptcy Court for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The six companies that filed for voluntary protection are Palco, Britt, SDLLC, Salmon Creek LLC (“Salmon Creek”) and Scotia Inn (“Scotia Inn”) (the “Palco Debtors”) and Scopac. The Bankruptcy Cases are being jointly administered, with the Debtors managing their business in the ordinary course as debtors-in-possession subject to the control and supervision of the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the Bankruptcy Cases, the Company deconsolidated the Debtor’s financial results beginning January 19, 2007. See Note 1, “–Deconsolidation of Palco and its Subsidiaries.” The filing of the Bankruptcy Cases was precipitated by liquidity shortfalls at Palco and Scopac and their resultant inability to make January 2007 interest payments on their respective debt obligations, arising from regulatory restrictions and limitations on timber harvest, increased timber harvesting costs and depressed lumber prices. Both Scopac and Palco undertook various efforts in 2006 to generate additional liquidity to satisfy their respective debt service obligations; however, the cash generated from their efforts, together with their cash flows from operations, was not sufficient to cover their respective interest payment shortfalls in January 2007. As of the Filing Date, Scopac’s indebtedness consisted of its 6.55% Class A-1, 7.11% Class A-2 and 7.71% Class A-3 Timber Collateralized Notes due 2028 (the “Scopac Timber Notes”) ($713.8 million principal outstanding as of December 31, 2006) and a line of credit with a group of banks pursuant to which Scopac was permitted to borrow to pay up to one year’s interest on the Scopac Timber Notes (the “Scopac Line of Credit”) ($36.2 million principal outstanding as of December 31, 2006). These obligations are each secured by (i) Scopac’s timber, timberlands and timber rights, (ii) certain contract rights and other assets, (iii) the proceeds of the foregoing and (iv) the funds held in various segregated accounts related to the Scopac Timber Notes. Annual interest obligations related to Scopac’s debt facilities were approximately $55.4 million as of December 31, 2006. As of the Filing Date, Palco’s principal indebtedness consisted of a five-year $85.0 million secured term loan (the “Palco Term Loan”) ($84.3 million principal outstanding as of December 31, 2006) and a five-year $60.0 million secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the “Palco Revolving Credit Facility”) ($24.1 million of borrowings outstanding and $13.7 million of letters of credit issued as of December 31, 2006). These facilities were secured by the stock of Palco owned by MGI, and substantially all of the assets of the Palco Debtors (other than Palco’s equity interest in Scopac). Marathon Structured Finance Fund L.P. (“Marathon”) provided both the Palco Revolving Credit Facility and the Palco Term Loan. The Palco Revolving Credit Facility was subsequently retired with the DIP Facility, a Debtor-in-Possession revolving credit facility provided by Marathon, which facility is described below under “–Palco Debtors’ Liquidity.” Effect of the Bankruptcy Filings The outstanding principal of, and accrued interest on, all long-term debt of the Debtors became immediately due and payable as a result of the commencement of the Bankruptcy Cases. However, the vast majority of the claims in existence at the Filing Date (including claims for principal and accrued interest on the Debtors’ indebtedness and substantially all legal proceedings) are stayed (deferred) while the Debtors continue to operate their businesses. The Bankruptcy Court, however, upon motion of the Debtors, permitted the Debtors to pay or otherwise honor certain unsecured pre-Filing Date claims, including employee wages and benefits and customary claims in the ordinary course of business, subject to certain limitations. The Debtors’ overall objectives in the Bankruptcy Cases are to achieve an operational and financial restructuring of each of the Debtors’ long-term debt obligations in view of estimated lower harvest levels, increased regulatory compliance costs and depressed lumber prices, and to continue their businesses. There can be no assurance that the Debtors will be able to attain these objectives. If the Debtors are unable to attain a successful operational and financial reorganization, the Debtors could be forced to surrender all or substantially all of their assets to their creditors or be forced to liquidate their assets pursuant to Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The outcome of the Bankruptcy Cases is impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of the Debtors, on the interests of creditors, and on the Company. Recent Bankruptcy Developments On September 30, 2007, the Debtors filed a proposed joint plan of reorganization during the period when a debtor has the sole right to propose and seek approval of a plan of reorganization (the “Exclusivity Period”). On December 21, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court approved an agreement by the Debtors and other parties to terminate the Exclusivity Period and permit the filing of plans of reorganization by the Debtors, as well as the Unsecured Creditors Committee (the “Committee”), Marathon and the holders of Scopac’s Timber Notes. On the January 30, 2008 deadline, Marathon and the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes filed proposed plans of reorganization. The same day, the Debtors filed an amended joint plan of reorganization (the “Joint Plan”), and Palco and Scopac each filed alternative stand-alone plans of reorganization (the “Alternative Plans”). The Company is a co-proponent of each of the Joint Plan and the Palco and Scopac Alternative Plans. The Joint Plan provides for the payment in full of all claims and the continuation of the businesses, but at harvest levels that are lower than historical rates. Under the Joint Plan, the Company’s indirect equity interests in both Palco and Scopac would be substantially diluted, such that the Company would lose a controlling interest in both companies. Additionally, certain assets owned by Palco would be transferred to Palco’s secured lender in satisfaction of the Palco Term Loan. The Joint Plan also provides for important economic contributions by the Company, including: (i) consenting to the dilution of its indirect equity interest in both Palco and Scopac; (ii) providing additional liquidity to Palco throughout the remainder of the case through redwood log and/or lumber purchases (either directly or indirectly) in an amount not to exceed $12.0 million, subject to Board approval; (iii) making a $10.0 million cash equity contribution to reorganized Palco on the effective date; (iv) forgiving $40.0 million of intercompany indebtedness; (v) using its best efforts to assist the reorganized Debtors in obtaining exit financing; and (vi) assisting the reorganized Debtors by providing its extensive real estate expertise in connection with various post-confirmation aspects of the Joint Plan. The Debtors do not believe that the Joint Plan is eligible to be “crammed down” (forced) on creditors who vote against it. Accordingly, Alternative Plans were developed to provide the Debtors an alternative to the Joint Plan in the event secured creditors vote against the Joint Plan. The Alternative Plans of Palco and Scopac provide for (a) the delivery of a substantial portion of Scopac’s timberlands (181,000 acres) to the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes in full satisfaction of the obligations under the Scopac Timber Notes, and (b) the delivery of all of Palco’s assets (other than its interest in Scopac and its interest in the Headwaters Claim, as defined below under “–Regulatory and Environmental Factors”) to Marathon. The Debtors’ remaining obligations (including those under the DIP Facility) would be paid with the proceeds from exit financing secured by the remaining assets owned by Palco. These assets would consist of Palco’s equity interest in the reorganized Scopac (whose assets would consist of 29,000 remaining acres of timberlands, including 6,600 acres of the largest stands of old growth redwood trees remaining under private ownership and the Headwaters Claim) and Palco’s interest in the Headwaters Claim. Both the Joint Plan and the Alternative Plans would require, among other things, that the Debtors obtain exit financing (approximately $90.0 million under the Joint Plan and approximately $135.0 million under the Alternative Plans). Both the plan of reorganization filed by Marathon and the plan of reorganization filed by the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes, if confirmed, would result in the loss entirely of the Company’s indirect equity interests in both Palco and Scopac. Voting for all of the plans has occurred and the Joint Plan and the Palco Alternative Plan did not obtain sufficient votes to be confirmed. Without sufficient votes (among other things), these plans cannot legally be confirmed. The Scopac Alternative Plan, the plan of reorganization filed by Marathon and the plan of reorganization filed by the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes did receive sufficient votes to be confirmed. There is substantial uncertainty as to which plan of reorganization, if any, will be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. If no plan is confirmed, the Bankruptcy Court may elect to convert the Bankruptcy Cases to a Chapter 7 liquidation proceeding. The confirmation hearing, at which the Bankruptcy Court will consider the plans of reorganization filed by Marathon, the holders of Scopac Timber Notes, and the Debtors, began in April 2008 and has not yet concluded. The outcome of the Bankruptcy Cases is impossible to predict and, and as noted above, could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of the Debtors, on the interests of creditors, and on the Company. Palco Debtors’ Liquidity On August 6, 2007, the Palco Debtors closed on the DIP Facility, a $75.0 million Debtor-in-Possession revolving credit facility that matures on the earliest of, among other things, (i) the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Palco Debtors, (ii) an event of default, (iii) the effective date of a plan of reorganization for Palco, or (iv) August 6, 2008. The DIP Facility was provided by Marathon and was used to retire the Palco Revolving Credit Facility. Under the DIP Facility, the lender has a “super-priority” claim, which provides for payment of the DIP Facility before any other secured or unsecured creditors and equity holders of the Palco Debtors can be paid. The DIP Facility contains restrictive financial covenants that, among others, require the Palco Debtors to maintain a minimum level of EBITDA and meet weekly cash flow projections. The Palco Debtors are currently in default under the DIP Facility. The DIP Facility is fully drawn and Palco continues to closely monitor and manage its cash resources. During January and early February 2008, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MAXXAM purchased $7.2 million of logs and lumber from Palco to provide additional liquidity. In spite of these purchases in February 2008, Palco did not have sufficient liquidity to make an approximate $4.3 million log payment due to Scopac; Palco and Scopac are working towards an agreement with respect to this missed payment. There can be no assurance that the Palco Debtors will continue to have sufficient liquidity to operate or that Palco’s DIP lender will not take action as a result of the default under the DIP Facility. Should either occur, the Palco Debtors may not be able to continue operations and reorganize successfully under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Scopac Liquidity Scopac has been authorized by the Bankruptcy Court to fund budgeted ongoing operating and bankruptcy-related costs using operating cash flow and, to the extent needed, funds available in Scopac’s Scheduled Amortization Reserve Account (“SAR Account,” an account established to support principal payments on the Scopac Timber Notes), provided that no more than $16.9 million in withdrawals from the SAR Account are outstanding at any given time. Scopac expects these sources of liquidity to be adequate to enable Scopac to continue its operations. If these sources of liquidity are not adequate, and if Scopac is unable to obtain additional sources of liquidity and the necessary Bankruptcy Court approval to utilize such additional sources of liquidity, Scopac may not be able to continue operations and reorganize successfully under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Potential Impact on Registrant and Certain Related Entities The Bankruptcy Cases could result in claims against and could have adverse impacts on MAXXAM Parent and its affiliates, including MGHI and/or MGI. For example, under ERISA, if Palco’s pension plan were to be terminated under certain circumstances, MAXXAM Parent and its wholly owned subsidiaries would be jointly and severally liable for any unfunded pension plan obligations. The estimated unfunded termination obligation attributable to Palco’s pension plan as of December 31, 2007, was approximately $17.0 million based upon annuity placement interest rate assumptions as of such date. In addition, all of the plans of reorganization that have been filed would require the utilization of all or a substantial portion of the Company’s net operating losses or other tax attributes for federal and state income tax purposes, and could result in MGI incurring significant tax liabilities that would not be offset by these tax attributes. Moreover, the plans of reorganization filed by Marathon and the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes provide for litigation trusts, which could result in claims against the Company and certain of its affiliates. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of the Bankruptcy Cases. Principal Assets Palco owns and manages, principally through Scopac, approximately 210,000 acres of virtually contiguous commercial timberlands located in Humboldt County along the northern California coast, an area which has very favorable soil and climate conditions for growing timber. Palco also owns substantially all of the assets in the town of Scotia, California, including a sawmill and other industrial use facilities, a co-generation plant, 270 homes, various commercial properties, and all of the land associated with these assets. A number of Palco employees live in Scotia. Products Redwood lumber has historically been Palco’s largest product category. Redwood is commercially available only along the northern coast of California and possesses certain unique characteristics that permit it to be sold at a premium to many other wood products. Such characteristics include its natural beauty, superior ability to retain paint and other finishes, dimensional stability and innate resistance to decay, insects and chemicals. Typical applications include exterior siding, trim and fascia for both residential and commercial construction, outdoor furniture, decks, planters, retaining walls and other specialty applications. Redwood also has a variety of industrial applications because of its chemical resistance and because it does not impart any taste or odor to liquids or solids. Upper grade redwood lumber, which is derived primarily from larger diameter logs and is characterized by an absence of knots and other defects, little to no sapwood, and a tighter grain, is used primarily in distinctive interior and exterior applications. Common grade redwood lumber, historically Palco’s largest volume product, has many of the same aesthetic and structural qualities as upper grade redwood, but has some knots, sapwood and a coarser grain. Such lumber is commonly used for construction purposes, including outdoor structures such as decks and fencing. Marketing The housing, construction and remodeling markets are the primary markets for Palco’s lumber products. Palco’s goal is to maintain a wide geographic distribution of its products. Palco’s accounts are primarily wholesale, followed by industrial end users, manufacturers, retailers and exporters. Palco’s redwood lumber is sold throughout the entire United States, as well as to export markets. Palco markets its products through its own sales staff, which focuses primarily on domestic sales. Competition Palco’s lumber is sold in highly competitive markets. Competition is generally based upon a combination of price, service, product availability and product quality. Palco’s products compete not only with other wood products but with metals, masonry, plastic and other construction materials made from non renewable resources. The level of demand for Palco’s products is dependent on such broad factors as overall economic conditions, interest rates and demographic trends. In addition, competitive considerations, such as total industry production and competitors’ pricing, as well as the price of other construction products, affect the sales prices for Palco’s lumber products. Competition in the common grade redwood lumber market is intense, with Palco competing with numerous large and small lumber producers. Employees As of March 1, 2008, the Company's forest products operations had approximately 355 employees. Intercompany Agreements Palco, Scopac and Salmon Creek are parties to several agreements between or among themselves, principally a master purchase agreement pursuant to which Palco purchases logs from Scopac and a services agreement pursuant to which Palco performs a variety of services for Scopac. The purchase price under the master purchase agreement is based upon “stumpage prices,” as published by the California State Board of Equalization, with Palco being responsible for harvesting and removal costs. Under the services agreement, Palco provides a number of operational, management and related services not performed by Scopac’s own employees with respect to the Scopac’s timber properties, such as maintaining and rehabilitating roads; building new roads; performing replanting and reforestation services; protecting against fire, insects and disease; and defending challenges of Scopac’s timber harvesting plans. Regulatory and Environmental Factors The businesses of Palco and Scopac are subject to a variety of California and federal laws and regulations. The provisions include the California Forest Practice Act that sets forth detailed requirements for the conduct of timber harvesting operations in the state, including regulatory approval of detailed timber harvesting plans and sustained yield requirements. The companies are also subject to the federal and California Endangered Species Acts, providing in general for the protection and conservation of specifically listed wildlife and plants, the California Environmental Quality Act, providing for the protection of the state’s air and water quality and wildlife, and the California Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act and federal Clean Water Act, providing for the protection of the water quality of rivers and streams. Moreover, Palco and Scopac are parties to a 50-year habitat conservation plan completed in connection with the Headwaters Agreement described below. Under the habitat conservation plan, harvesting activities are prohibited or restricted on various areas of the companies’ timberlands, in some cases for the entire 50-year term of the plan, including buffer areas alongside watercourses (subject to potential adjustment up or down pursuant to an ongoing watershed analysis process). The habitat conservation plan also imposes a number of operational requirements and restrictions on Palco and Scopac. In March 1999, Palco, Scopac and Salmon Creek consummated the Headwaters Agreement (the “Headwaters Agreement”) with the State of California and the United States. Pursuant to the Headwaters Agreement, approximately 5,600 acres of timberlands owned by the three companies were transferred to the United States government in exchange for $300.0 million, approximately 7,700 acres of timberlands, and approval by the federal and state governments of habitat conservation and sustained yield plans (and various related governmental approvals). In December 2005, Palco and Scopac filed a claim (the “Headwaters Claim”) with the California claims board alleging that the State of California and certain of its agencies had substantially impaired the contractual and legal rights of Palco and Scopac under the Headwaters Agreement and the related permits, authorizations and approvals, resulting in substantial damages to the companies. As the claims board failed to approve or deny the Headwaters Claim by the statutory deadline, the claim was treated as having been denied. This permitted the companies to file a suit for damages in California state court, with Palco and Scopac doing so on December 20, 2006 in the Superior Court of Fresno, California (No. CECG 0422). Segment Information See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Results of Operations” and Note 3 for additional information regarding revenues, income or loss, and total assets of the Company’s three segments, as well as revenues from the principal products offered by each. None of the Company’s segments have material foreign sales or assets. Employees At March 1, 2008, MAXXAM and its subsidiaries, excluding the Debtors, had approximately 1,550 year-round and seasonal employees, none of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Company SEC Reports As the Company does not maintain an Internet website, the Company’s filings are not available in this manner. However, the Company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), which has an Internet website (http://www.sec.gov) containing the reports, proxy statements and other information that the Company electronically files with the SEC. In addition, the Company will provide these materials free of charge to any recordholder of the Company’s securities or any “street name” holder that provides a brokerage or similar statement reflecting such holdings. You should send your request to MAXXAM Inc., c/o Corporate Secretary, 1330 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 2000, Houston, Texas 77056-3058. The Company will also consider on a case-by-case basis requests for such materials by persons who do not hold Company securities. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Bankruptcy Cases The bankruptcies of Palco and its subsidiaries, including Scopac, create significant risks and uncertainties. On January 18, 2007, each of the Palco Debtors and Scopac filed the Bankruptcy Cases separate, voluntary petitions in the Bankruptcy Court for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The filing of the Bankruptcy Cases was precipitated by liquidity shortfalls at Palco and Scopac and their resultant inability to make January 2007 interest payments on their respective debt obligations, arising from regulatory restrictions and limitations on timber harvest, increased timber harvesting costs and depressed lumber prices. The bankruptcies of the Debtors create significant risks and uncertainties for the Debtors and the Company, including, but not limited to, those described herein. The outcome of the Bankruptcy Cases is impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of the Debtors, on the interests of creditors, and on the Company. The Debtors may not be able to reorganize successfully, and the Company could lose some or all of its equity ownership interest. The Debtors’ overall objectives in the Bankruptcy Cases are to achieve an operational and financial restructuring of each of the Debtors’ long-term debt obligations in view of estimated lower harvest levels, increased regulatory compliance costs and depressed lumber prices, and to continue their businesses. There can be no assurance that the Debtors will be able to attain these objectives. If the Debtors are unable to attain a successful operational and financial reorganization, the Debtors could be forced to surrender all or substantially all of their assets to their creditors or be forced to liquidate their assets pursuant to Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The outcome of the Bankruptcy Cases is impossible to predict and could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of the Debtors, on the interests of creditors, and on the Company. The Debtors have filed the Joint Plan and the Alternative Plans, and Marathon and the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes have also filed plans of reorganization. Before any of such plans can be implemented, it must be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. There is substantial uncertainty as to which plan of reorganization, if any, will be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. If no plan is confirmed, the Bankruptcy Court may elect to convert the Bankruptcy Cases to a Chapter 7 liquidation proceeding. Under the Joint Plan, the Company’s indirect equity interests in both Palco and Scopac would be substantially diluted, such that the Company would lose a controlling interest in both companies. Under the Alternative Plans, Palco and Scopac would transfer a substantial portion of their assets to their principal creditors (essentially all but 29,000 acres of timberlands and the Headwaters Claim). In addition, both the plans of reorganization filed by Marathon and the plan of reorganization filed by the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes would result in the loss entirely of the Company’s indirect equity interest in both Palco and Scopac. The Debtors developed the Alternative Plans as they do not believe the Joint Plan can be “crammed down” (forced) on creditors who voted against it. While the Debtors believe that the Alternative Plans satisfy all requirements necessary for confirmation by the Bankruptcy Court, there can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will reach the same conclusion. Both Joint Plan and the Alternative Plans would require, among other things, that the Debtors obtain exit financing (approximately $90.0 million under the Joint Plan and $135.0 million under the Alternative Plans). Voting for all of the plans has occurred and the Joint Plan and the Palco Alternative Plan did not obtain sufficient votes to be confirmed. Without sufficient votes (among other things), these plans cannot legally be confirmed. The Scopac Alternative Plan, the plan of reorganization filed by Marathon and the plan of reorganization filed by the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes did receive sufficient votes to be confirmed. The Palco Debtors and Scopac may be unable to obtain sufficient additional liquidity to continue operations and reorganize successfully under Chapter 11. On August 6, 2007, the Palco Debtors closed on the DIP Facility, a $75.0 million Debtor-in-Possession revolving credit facility. The DIP Facility contains restrictive financial covenants that, among others, require the Palco Debtors to maintain a minimum level of EBITDA and meet weekly cash flow projections. However, the operating cash flow estimates used to establish the EBITDA maintenance covenant and the weekly cash flow projections are subject to a number of assumptions and actual results could differ materially from these estimates. The Palco Debtors are currently in default under the DIP Facility. There can be no assurance that the Palco Debtors will continue to have sufficient liquidity to operate or that Palco’s DIP lender will not take action as a result of the default under the DIP Facility. Should either occur, the Palco Debtors may not be able to continue operations and reorganize successfully under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Scopac has been authorized by the Bankruptcy Court to fund budgeted ongoing operating and bankruptcy-related costs using operating cash flow and, to the extent needed, funds available in the SAR Account (subject to no more than $16.9 million in withdrawals from the SAR Account being outstanding at any given time). Scopac expects these sources of liquidity to be adequate to enable Scopac to continue its operations. If these sources of liquidity are not adequate, and if Scopac is unable to obtain additional sources of liquidity and the necessary Bankruptcy Court approval to utilize such additional sources of liquidity, Scopac may not be able to continue operations and reorganize successfully under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The bankruptcies of Scopac and the Palco Debtors could result in claims against, and potential liabilities for, MAXXAM Parent and its affiliates. The Bankruptcy Cases could result in claims against and could have adverse impacts on MAXXAM Parent and its affiliates, including MGHI and/or MGI. For example, under ERISA, if Palco’s pension plan were to be terminated under certain circumstances, MAXXAM Parent and its wholly owned subsidiaries would be jointly and severally liable for any unfunded pension plan obligations. The estimated unfunded termination obligation attributable to Palco’s pension plan as of December 31, 2007, was approximately $17.0 million based upon annuity placement interest rate assumptions as of such date. In addition, all of the plans of reorganization that have been filed would require the utilization of all or a substantial portion of the Company’s net operating losses or other tax attributes for federal and state income tax purposes, and could result in MGI incurring significant tax liabilities that would not be offset by these tax attributes. Moreover, the plans of reorganization filed by Marathon and the holders of the Scopac Timber Notes provide for litigation trusts, which could result in claims against the Company and certain of its affiliates. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of the Bankruptcy Cases. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Operations Revenues for our real estate operations are expected to decline for the foreseeable future. In 2005, our real estate operations realized substantial revenues related to sales of residential lots and acreage at our Fountain Hills, Mirada and Palmas developments. As the proceeds from these asset sales have not been redeployed to other real estate assets and there have been significant declines in real estate demand in areas where the Company operates, this level of sales activity is not expected to recur for the foreseeable future. Real estate development is a cyclical industry and is affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. The real estate development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, including, but not limited to: • employment levels and population growth and shifts; • interest rates and the availability of financing; • consumer confidence; and • changes in the desirability of residential and commercial areas. Development of a project begins, and financial and other resources are typically committed long before a real estate project is able to begin sales, which could occur at a time when the real estate market is depressed. Our real estate operations are subject to various land use regulations and governmental approvals. Our real estate operations are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations concerning zoning, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, and construction. Periodic approval is required from different agencies in connection with various matters. Certain jurisdictions also require the inspection of properties, approval of sales literature, disclosure to purchasers of specific information, bonding for property improvements, and approval of real estate contract forms. Failure to comply with such regulations and requirements to obtain any such approvals could adversely affect our real estate operations. The land use approval processes we must follow to ultimately develop our projects have become increasingly complex. Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge the proposed plans and approvals, which would result in additional costs and delays in obtaining approvals or bringing a development to market, and could result in litigation outcomes unfavorable to us in a variety of ways such as affecting the timing, design, completion, scope, plans and profitability of a project. We are in competition with other developments for customers and residents. There is intense competition among companies in the real estate investment and development business. Our Palmas acreage sales and resort operations compete with similar businesses in the Caribbean, Florida and other vacation/holiday destinations, and our developments and operations in Arizona face increased competition in the area. Our Mirada development faces competition from both existing and future developments, many with golf courses and other amenities. Claims relating to infrastructure obligations could be filed against our real estate operations. Our real estate operations rely on third party contractors to complete various contractual infrastructure requirements at our real estate developments, such as installing electrical lines, piping, water tanks, drainage and roads. The failure of the contractors to perform or their faulty workmanship could result in claims against our real estate operations. Risks Related to Our Racing Operations The significant competition we face from other gaming and entertainment operations can be expected to continue adversely affecting the racing segment’s operating performance. Sam Houston Race Park competes with many other forms of wagering and entertainment, including Louisiana gaming facilities, a nearby greyhound racetrack, the Texas State Lottery, bingo and a wide range of sporting events and other entertainment activities. Other competitive pressures include simulcast signals broadcast by race tracks able to offer larger purses and competitive fields, resorts with gaming, and increasing use of the Internet for horse wagering and gaming, including Internet betting services with customer incentives such as cash rebates. Future risks include approval of new forms of gaming in Texas or elsewhere. Our racing operations are also affected by the allocation of sufficient live racing days by the Racing Commission and their ability to attract a sufficient number and quality of race horses and greyhounds. Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park face a substantial challenge to maintain and grow their customer base in light of these competitive pressures. It will be difficult to obtain legislation that would allow our racing operations to increase their revenues. Our two racing facilities would be able to increase their revenues, likely to a substantial degree, were additional forms of gaming to be allowed at our existing horse and dog racing tracks. The Company and other industry participants have during prior regular and special sessions of the Texas Legislature pursued legislation that would permit video lottery terminals at Texas tracks. None of these sessions resulted in the passage of such legislation. While we intend to continue vigorously pursuing legislation favorable to our racing operations, no assurances can be given that it will be enacted or become effective as some legislation may require the approval of two thirds of each legislative house and a majority of Texas voters. Moreover, it is impossible to determine what the provisions of any such legislation would be or its ultimate effect on our racing operations. Other Risk Factors Claims could arise from prior acquisitions. The Company or its affiliates have over time acquired a variety of properties or entities, some with long operating histories. These properties and entities may be subject to environmental or other liabilities that were not identified at the time of acquisition. Any such claims would likely be costly to defend and their settlement or other resolution could potentially have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operation or liquidity. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could adversely affect various operations of the Company. Our operations are subject to risks from natural disasters and other catastrophic events. For instance, our Palmas resort in Puerto Rico, as well as our racing operations at Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park, are particularly subject to damage from hurricanes. Our Mirada development is particularly subject to the risk of earthquakes. Moreover, all of our operations are subject to general risks such as fire or adverse weather conditions. Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results. We have insurance coverage against a variety of operating hazards including business interruption, liability and other losses to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available at acceptable rates, but the nature and amount of that insurance may not be sufficient to fully cover liabilities arising out of pending and future litigation or other claims. This insurance has deductibles or self insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. Insurance does not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations would be adversely affected by claims not covered by insurance. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, efforts and availability of our management and employees. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills or the unionization of our workforce could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations or growth. Compliance with and changes in laws and regulations and risks from legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results. Our operations can be affected by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Changes that could affect the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing rules and regulations. Changes that affect the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax rates or tax laws that could have a variety of financial and other effects, including, by way of example, the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. MAXXAM Parent’s investment portfolio could be adversely affected by market conditions and other factors. MAXXAM Parent has substantial assets in different types of investments such as: • a variety of liquid money market instruments, • U.S. equity securities and corporate debt securities, U.S. treasury obligations and other debt securities, and • equity interests in several limited partnerships which invest in diversified portfolios of common stocks and equity securities, and exchange-traded options, futures, forward foregoing currency contracts, and other arbitrage opportunities. While MAXXAM Parent tries to minimize its risk with respect to its investment portfolio, there can be no assurance that a variety of market and other factors, such as interest rate changes and general market fluctuations, will not adversely affect the performance of MAXXAM Parent’s investment portfolio. Our Chairman controls the election of the Company’s Board of Directors. Charles E. Hurwitz, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, controls a majority of the Company’s common stock (the “Common Stock”) and 79.5% of the Company’s total combined voting power. As a result, Mr. Hurwitz is able to control the election of the Company’s Board of Directors and controls the vote on virtually all matters which might be submitted to a vote of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 