ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K should be carefully considered in evaluating our Company and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Moscow CableCom, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with Renova Media Enterprises and Related Parties The proposed acquisition of the Company by Renova Media may not be completed. In February 2007, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Renova Media pursuant to which Renova Media would acquire all of the outstanding equity of the Company that it does not directly own. Upon completion of the acquisition, we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Renova Media. The consummation of this transaction is subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • that we will experience a business interruption, incident, occurrence or event that has a material adverse effect on us and would permit Renova Media to terminate the Merger Agreement and abandon the transaction; • that the parties will not have performed in all material respects their obligations contained in the Merger Agreement before the closing date; • that the representations and warranties made by the parties in the Merger Agreement will not be true and correct as of the closing of the this transaction in a manner which results in a closing condition not being satisfied; and • that a court of competent jurisdiction or an administrative, governmental or regulatory body or commission will have issued a final nonappealable injunction, order, decree, judgment or ruling, that permanently enjoins or otherwise prohibits the Merger or that a statute, rule, regulation or order will have been enacted, entered or enforced which makes the consummation of this transaction illegal or prevents or prohibits this transaction. As a result of various risks to the completion of this transaction, there can be no assurance that Renova Media’s acquisition of all of our equity interests that it does not directly own will be completed even if the required stockholder approval is obtained. Failure to close this transaction could be perceived as damaging to our stock price and may result in difficulties in attracting substitute permanent capital on terms that are favorable to our current shareholders which could further imperil our operations and stock price. Renova Media could exert an uneven influence on the strategic direction of our company. In addition to the pending acquisition transaction, Renova Media, which is controlled by Victor Vekselberg, has an equity interest in the Company of approximately 42.6% and it has warrants to purchase additional shares of stock which could increase its equity ownership in the Company to approximately 62.7%. In addition, Renova Media owns approximately 49% of the voting stock of COMCOR, COMCOR’s board of directors, which owns 22.8% of our voting outstanding equity securities. Renova Media has designated five of the directors on our ten person Board of Directors and it has the right to select one additional director. In addition, we were indebted to RME Finance in an amount of $34.3 million at December 31, 2006, including accrued interest, and we have recently entered into a $45 million bridge loan agreement with RME Finance. This indebtedness is likely to grow as quarterly interest charges continue to be compounded into the principal balance of the borrowing. Although we believe the funds received from RME Finance have been very beneficial for our operational growth, large increases in the amount of our indebtedness could be harmful to our shareholders if Renova Media’s acquisition of the Company does not get completed because of the leverage created and the increased amount of cash flow that needs to be 12 Table of Contents generated by future operations to service the debt levels. These factors could lead to conflicts of interest between Renova Media and our other stockholders, if the proposed acquisition of the Company by Renova Media is not completed. Certain of our directors and shareholders may have conflicts of interest with us. Affiliates of Renova Media, our single largest shareholder, have entered into agreements with and made investments in companies that may compete with us. Renova Media has designated five of the directors on our ten person board and COMCOR has designated three of our directors. Affiliates of Renova Media could be engaged in commercial activities and transactions which may give rise to conflicts of interest, and we may compete with such affiliates for the same prospective customers. This includes, but is not limited to, the ownership interest in Teleinform by an affiliate of Renova Media. In addition, certain of our directors are affiliated with Renova Media and COMCOR, which have invested in, and may in the future invest in, other entities engaged in or intending to engage in the delivery of cable television, internet access and telephony services, some of which may compete with us, or they may invest in entities that are, or could become our vendors or suppliers. Certain of our directors or executive officers may play a direct or indirect role in the activities of these other entities. In the event the Renova Media acquisition does not close, such involvement may create a conflict of interest in determining business strategies and making certain business decisions. We may not be in a position to influence any party’s decision to engage in activities that would give rise to a conflict of interest, and they may take actions that are not in our shareholders’ best interests, or are conducted on terms that could be viewed as not being “at arm’s length”. This includes the terms for the delivery of services by COMCOR, negotiations with suppliers and subcontractors, as well as competitors or potential competitors. We are dependent upon COMCOR for the delivery of our services and the expansion of our HFC Network. Our HFC Network is connected to COMCOR’s MFON pursuant to a 50 year agreement that was amended in March 2005. If COMCOR should experience technical difficulties with its fiber backbone or any of the related equipment, we would not be able to offer our services to our customer base. In addition, we have no assurance that the amounts we pay to COMCOR pursuant to the agreement and for other services we obtain from COMCOR represent amounts that we could otherwise negotiate on an arm’s length basis with an unaffiliated vendor. This includes, but is not necessarily limited to the loss of ports and channels and the transmission of Internet traffic. We are dependent on outside parties to expand our HFC Network. In Moscow, in order for us to build out our HFC Network in the various regions, we require authorization from the Prefects of each of the regions. Currently, we rely on COMCOR to petition and obtain such authorizations. We are not certain that we would be able to obtain such authorizations without COMCOR or its key officials. Our operating plans are very much dependent on our ability to build-out our HFC Network in administrative regions of Moscow for which we have not had approvals obtained on our behalf. If we did not receive the support of COMCOR or its key officials in this process, we have no basis to believe that we would be able to readily obtain the required authorizations to continue our build-out activities. We are also dependent upon COMCOR’s primary and secondary nodes, or signal relay stations, which are needed to connect our new and planned build-out to its MFON. Delays in COMCOR’s ability to make such connections available would result in delays in our ability to market and sell our services and put new construction into revenue generating status. Business, Regulatory and Financial Reporting Risks The Company may experience liquidity difficulties due to continued operating losses and the capital expenditure requirements of our business. Cash resources as of December 31, 2006 are not expected to be adequate to enable CCTV to continue or accelerate the build-out of its HFC Network throughout Moscow and 13 Table of Contents meet other anticipated capital expenditure commitments and operating cash needs. As a result, if the Renova Media acquisition is not completed, the Company and CCTV could be exposed to future liquidity difficulties. We continue to incur losses, as CCTV’s revenues are not yet sufficient to meet its cash operating expenses, and the Company requires continued access to capital to meet its corporate level operating expenses and its other cash obligations. As a result of the Term Loan and the bridge loan financing, we are solely dependent upon financing from Renova Media and RME Finance to meet our liquidity needs. If Renova Media’s acquisition of our equity interests that it does not directly own is not completed, there is no assurance that funds to be received pursuant to the bridge loan from RME Finance will be adequate to meet the cash needs of our business plans. If the Company and CCTV are exposed to liquidity difficulties there is no assurance that an alternate source of additional financing could be obtained on favorable terms that would be acceptable to Renova Media and RME Finance as required by existing agreements, or if such additional financing could be obtained at all. We cannot be sure that a market will develop for our television services, including future services we may offer. CCTV currently offers its subscribers a number of value-added services, such as high-speed Internet access and cable television. Our market penetration for cable television services grew impressively during 2006, but it is still relatively low at an average of 8.3% of homes passed as of December 31, 2006 and with no individual region having a market penetration exceeding 14%. In 2006, CCTV introduced pay-per-view services and began generating revenue from and arrangement with a home shopping channel. Revenues from these new services are very modest and may not grow as expected. We may also develop plans to offer IP-based telephony and web hosting services. CCTV may not be successful in creating or competing in a market for these value-added services. In particular, the Company cannot be assured that CCTV can: • enhance its current services; • develop new services that meet changing subscriber needs; • generate significant demand for its new services through successful advertising and marketing initiatives; • satisfy subscriber expectations with respect to value-added services; • provide its new services in a profitable manner; and • continue to offer value-added services in the event of adverse changes in economic conditions. Our inability to effectively introduce market and sell new and enhanced services or to anticipate consumer demand for such services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. We may not be able to adequately meet regulatory reporting requirements. During 2006, we restated our financial statements for the periods ended June 30, 2005, September 30, 2005, December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2006 solely due to accounting issues relating to deferred income taxes. For each of the reporting periods ended December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2006 we were unable to file our periodic financial reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a timely manner, even after automatic extensions of time to file were taken into consideration. As a result of such late filings, including this filing, our common Stock has been the subject of potential de-listing with Nasdaq Global Market. Staffing issues, complex accounting matters, control deficiencies and material weaknesses all contributed to the late filings. This could result in our inability to maintain a listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, although we currently anticipate that such listing will voluntarily be terminated upon the expected closing of Renova Media’s acquisition of the equity interests of the Company that it does not directly own. It could also result in a lack of confidence with respect to the accuracy and reliability of the financial statements we do report. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our stock. We are currently in the process of evaluating our internal 14 Table of Contents controls system to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluations and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These systems are necessary to produce accurate financial reports and prevent fraudulent activity. We expect to incur additional costs in the form of additional personnel and outside consultants in order for us to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and management will have to devote substantial time and effort. In the event that the Renova Media acquisition is not completed, we will be required to begin complying with Section 404 as of December 31, 2007. We have reported on material weaknesses affecting our anti-fraud detection and prevention procedures and controls and on financial reporting and disclosure process. See Item 9A “Controls and Procedures.” However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. In addition, if any material weakness or deficiency is identified or is not remedied, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information, and our stock price could be significantly adversely affected as a result. We operate in a highly competitive industry, particularly for the delivery of Internet access. There is substantial competition for the delivery of cable television and Internet access services in Moscow. We expect competition to intensify as a result of the development of new technologies, products and services. Other television service providers serve each of the markets in which CCTV competes. This competition may put downward pressure on subscriber and revenue growth and profit margins. Television service providers compete principally on service area, price, service quality, and features. CCTV’s ability to compete successfully will depend on its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including service quality, coverage area, new services, service features and enhancements, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and competitors’ pricing strategies. Similarly, there is significant competition for the delivery of Internet access services. Although we believe that CCTV is the largest provider of cable-based Internet access in Moscow, there is significant competition from ADSL carriers and individual Home LAN providers. The trend of lower monthly tariffs for product offerings is expected to continue. Continued rapid changes in technologies could materially adversely affect us. The television and internet access services industry is experiencing significant technological change. This change includes: • Evolving industry standards; • Ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology; • Shorter development cycles for new products, enhancements and changes in end-user needs and preferences; • Development of data and high bandwidth network capabilities; • Migration to next-generation services; and • Expanded availability and functionality of other competing technologies. The pace and extent of customer demand may not continue to increase which could result in shortfalls from anticipated subscriber growth rates. As a result, the future prospects of the industry and of CCTV and the success of its competitive services remain uncertain. Also, alternative technologies may develop that may provide alternative service superior to that available from CCTV. Such developments could have a material adverse affect on CCTV which may require us to make substantial investments in order to remain competitive. 15 Table of Contents CCTV must face operational risks associated with a growing company. CCTV’s revenues have shown strong growth in each of the past three years, and we are hopeful that opportunities will allow us to continue on this strong growth pattern. However, to continue strong revenue growth we need to continue to build out our HFC Network and attract new subscribers. Many cable companies face challenges in gaining access to individual residences or apartment buildings to sell and market their services. CCTV could face similar obstacles. In addition, planned increases in our growth rates will require the hiring and training of qualified installers and other technical workers. Although we believe the available labor pool in Moscow is conducive to such growth, there can be no assurance of our ability to attract and train a sufficient number of workers to meet projected order flow demands. In addition, growing companies face challenges associated with managing and administering to the needs of higher volumes of transactions. This requires hiring and training customer support and other administrative and operational support staff and managers to ensure procedures and controls are properly implemented to serve our growing customer base and to ensure that all elements of the operations and administration function adequately. Although we believe that we can meet these needs through additional hiring and through the advancement of the careers of present employees, there can be no assurance of our ability to successfully meet these growing challenges. We may grow through the acquisition of businesses or operations not yet identified. In addition to the “organic” growth of our business which we intend to achieve through the expansion of our HFC Network and through continued marketing to existing and newly passed areas, we may expand through the acquisition of other operations or companies. Such acquisitions could result in additional customers or in enhanced or expanded service offerings. Any such expansion may not necessarily be limited to within the city of Moscow. The effects of any such acquisitions are uncertain but include the risks of dilution to our existing shareholders and of failure for such acquired operations to meet our expectations. We do not carry all of the insurance coverage customary in more economically developed countries for a business of our size and nature, and as a result could experience substantial loss or disruption. The insurance industry is not yet well developed in Russia, and many forms of insurance protection common in more economically developed countries are not yet available in Russia on comparable terms, including coverage for business interruption. At present, we have no coverage for business interruption or loss of key management personnel. We do not maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves for these types of losses. Any such loss may cause substantial disruption and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We bear the financial risks of our defined benefit pension plan. Although our defined benefit pension plan is actuarially overfunded and we have not had to make any contributions to the plan since we acquired it in 1991, the impact of potential declines in global equity markets on asset values and any declines in interest rates used to value the liabilities in our pension plan may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plan in future years in material amounts. The determinations of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund the pension plan. During the third quarter of 2006, the “Pension Protection Act of 2006” became law. Among the stated objectives of the law are the protection of both pension beneficiaries and the financial health of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”). To accomplish these objectives, the new law requires sponsors to fund defined benefit pension plans earlier than previous requirements and to pay increased PBGC premiums. The impact of the law cannot be fully assessed until all the implementation rules are published, but the law does require defined benefit plans to be fully funded in 2011. This may create funding requirement for our defined benefit pension plan. 16 Table of Contents Risks relating to the political environment in Russia Businesses in Russia, especially media companies, can be subject to politically motivated actions. The Russian government has taken various actions in recent years against business people and companies operating in Russia that have been perceived as having been politically motivated, including actions for technical violations of law or violations of laws that have been applied retroactively, including violations of tax laws. These actions have on occasion resulted in significant fluctuations in the market prices of the securities of businesses operating in Russia, a weakening of investor confidence in Russia and doubts about the progress of market and political reforms in Russia. These concerns were intensified as a result of the events leading to the imprisonment of Mikhail Khordorkovsky and the effective re-nationalization of Yukos, the oil company he controlled. In October 2006, the city of Moscow issued a decree which appears to give a competitive advantage to Mostelecom at the expense of CCTV and our other competitors. Although we believe that such a decree is not enforceable, changes in the political climate in Moscow may affect our ability to conduct our business in the manner we have planned. Broader political developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. The current Russian presidential administration has taken a number of steps to expand its authority, including by further centralizing power in a number of areas and removing decision making authority from the federal regions. The ultimate extent or impact of these changes is uncertain. These and future changes in the government, major policy shifts or lack of consensus between various branches of the government and powerful economic groups could disrupt or reverse economic and regulatory reforms. In addition, the Russian presidential elections scheduled for 2008 could bring more volatility to the market. Any disruption or reversal of reform policies could lead to political or governmental instability or the occurrence of conflicts among powerful economic groups, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and the value of our common stock. It has been widely reported in the Russian and foreign media that the Russian government is exerting pressure on the so-called “oligarchs” to cause them to divest their commercial interests in certain areas of economic activity. The media have also reported that the government has exerted significant influence on companies owned or controlled by the oligarchs through tax inspections, management changes, threats of and actual prosecution of management and key officials, and other means. Real and perceived pressure on the oligarchs and their businesses has seriously affected the economic activities of these enterprises and their management. If the current or future governments in Russia were to apply similar pressure on the Company, our subsidiaries, on Renova Media or its affiliates, or on COMCOR, it could have serious adverse effects on our operations and financial results. Such effects could include, but would not be limited to, the inability of the board of directors to act independently from external pressure and the distraction of our management from our day-to-day operations. Risks relating to the economic environment in Russia Emerging markets such as Russia are subject to greater risks than more developed markets and financial turmoil in any emerging market could disrupt our business, as well as cause the price of our common stock to decline. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the significance of the risks involved in, and are familiar with, investing in such markets. Investors should also note that emerging markets such as Russia are subject to rapid change and that the information set out in this prospectus may become outdated relatively quickly. Moreover, financial turmoil in any emerging market country tends to adversely affect prices in stock markets of other emerging market countries as investors move their money to more stable, developed markets. As has happened in the past, financial problems or an increase in the perceived risks associated with investing in emerging economies could dampen foreign investment in Russia and adversely affect the Russian economy. Such economic downturn could, among other things, impact our ability to attract or retain subscribers or our vendors’ abilities to support our operating needs. 17 Table of Contents Economic instability in Russia could reduce consumer spending, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Russian economy has experienced at various times: • significant declines in gross domestic product; • hyperinflation; • an unstable currency; • high government debt relative to gross domestic product; • a weak banking system providing limited liquidity to Russian enterprises; • a large number of loss-making enterprises that continued to operate due to the lack of effective bankruptcy proceedings; • significant use of barter transactions and illiquid promissory notes to settle commercial transactions; • widespread tax evasion; • the growth of black and gray market economies; • pervasive capital flight; • high levels of corruption and the penetration of organized crime into the economy; • significant increases in unemployment and underemployment; and • the impoverishment of a large portion of the Russian population. Recent trends in the Russian economy, such as the increase in gross domestic product, a relatively stable ruble and a reduced rate of inflation, may not continue or may be abruptly reversed. Additionally, because Russia produces and exports large quantities of natural gas and oil, the Russian economy is especially vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of these commodities on the world market. A strengthening of the ruble in real terms relative to the U.S. dollar, changes in monetary policy, inflation, a decline in natural gas and oil prices or other factors could adversely affect Russia’s economy and our business in the future. Any such market downturn or economic slowdown could also severely limit our and our customers’ access to capital, also adversely affecting our and our customers’ businesses in the future. The Russian banking system remains underdeveloped, and another banking crisis could place severe liquidity constraints on our business. Russia’s banking and other financial systems are less developed and regulated than those of many other developed countries, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent application. The August 1998 financial crisis resulted in the bankruptcy and liquidation of many Russian banks and almost entirely eliminated the developing market for commercial bank loans at that time. Many Russian banks do not meet international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector still lags far behind internationally accepted norms. In part due to inadequate supervision by regulators, certain banks do not follow existing Central Bank of Russia regulations with respect to lending criteria, credit quality, loan loss reserves or diversification of exposure. Furthermore, Russian bank deposits made by corporate entities generally are not insured. Recently, there has been a rapid increase in lending by Russian banks, which many believe has been accompanied by deterioration in the credit quality of borrowers. In addition, a robust domestic corporate debt market is leading to Russian banks increasingly holding large amounts of Russian corporate ruble bonds in their portfolios. Weaknesses in the Russian banking sector, combined with the relatively high risk credit portfolios of Russian banks, may result in the banking sector being more susceptible to market downturns or economic slowdowns, including due to Russian corporate defaults. In addition, the Russian Central Bank has, from time to time, revoked the licenses of certain Russian banks, which in the second quarter of 2004 resulted in market rumors about additional bank closures and many depositors withdrawing their savings. If a banking crisis were to 18 Table of Contents occur, companies operating in Russia would be subject to severe liquidity constraints due to the limited supply of domestic savings and the withdrawal of foreign funding sources that would occur during such a crisis. Risks relating to Russian legislation and the Russian legal system. Weaknesses in the Russian legal system create an uncertain environment for investment and business activity and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. Russia is still developing the legal framework required to support a market economy, and its legal system is largely characterized by: • inconsistencies between and among laws, presidential decrees and governmental, ministerial and local regulations, orders, decisions, resolutions and other acts; • substantial gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations; • limited judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting Russian legislation; • the relative inexperience of judges and courts in interpreting recent commercial legislation; • a lack of judicial independence from political, social and commercial forces; • a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and • poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse. The independence of the judicial system and of the prosecutor general’s office and their immunity from economic, political and other influences have at times been questioned. The court system is understaffed and underfunded. Judges and courts are generally inexperienced in the area of business and corporate law. As is true of civil law systems generally, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions. Not all Russian legislation and court decisions are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. The Russian judicial system can be slow, and enforcement of court orders can in practice be very difficult. All of these factors make judicial decisions in Russia difficult to predict and effective redress uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions are sometimes used in furtherance of political aims. In addition, several key Russian laws, including the amended Communications Law, have only recently become effective. The untested nature of much of recent Russian legislation, the lack of consensus about the scope, content and pace of economic and political reform and the rapid evolution of the Russian legal system in ways that may not always coincide with market developments may place the enforceability and underlying constitutionality of laws in doubt and result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the Russian legal system. Any of these weaknesses could affect our ability to enforce our rights under our licenses and under our contracts, or to defend ourselves against claims by others. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with applicable laws, decrees and regulations. These uncertainties also extend to property rights. Although legislation has been enacted to protect private property against expropriation and nationalization, due to the lack of experience in enforcing these provisions and due to political factors, these protections may not be enforced in the event of an attempted expropriation or nationalization. Expropriation or nationalization of any of our entities or their assets, potentially without adequate compensation, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary government action may have an adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. Government authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and have at times exercised their discretion selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and sometimes in a 19 Table of Contents manner that is contrary to law or influenced by political or commercial considerations. The Government also has the power, in certain circumstances, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary actions have included withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance (including that of our subsidiaries) with applicable laws, decrees and regulations in Russia. Unlawful or arbitrary government action could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our common stock. Changes in the Russian tax system or unpredictable or unforeseen application of existing rules could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our tax burden may become greater than the estimated amount that we have recorded to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheets. Russian tax authorities have often been arbitrary and aggressive in their interpretation of tax laws and their many ambiguities, as well as in their enforcement and collection activities. Many companies are often forced to negotiate their tax bills with tax inspectors who may demand higher taxes than applicable law appears to provide. Any additional tax liability, as well as any unforeseen changes in Russian tax laws, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. Under Russian accounting and tax principles, financial statements of Russian companies are not consolidated for tax purposes. As a result, each Russian-registered entity in our group pays its own Russian taxes and we cannot offset the profits or losses in any single entity against the profits and losses of any other entity. Consequently, our overall effective tax rate may increase as we expand our operations, unless we are able to implement an effective corporate structure that minimizes the effect of these Russian accounting and tax norms. The Russian tax system imposes additional burdens and costs on our operations in Russia, and complicates our tax planning and related business decisions. The uncertainty involved potentially exposes us to significant fines and penalties and enforcement measures despite our best efforts at compliance, and could result in a greater than expected tax burden on our subsidiaries. These factors raise the risk of a sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in Russia. This could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. In addition, Russian tax authorities have recently begun to increase control over companies regarding the ability to recover value added tax (VAT) paid to suppliers in excess of VAT received from customers for companies which have debt within their capital structure. The Company has recorded a provision of $1,118,000 relating to the Company having offset VAT it received from its customers against VAT paid to suppliers and vendors in 2003 and 2004, which are being contested in the Russia tax court system. Although the Company believes it has properly accounted for the payment and receipt of VAT in accordance with relevant legislation, there can be no assurance that Company will prevail in this process. The Company has not made any provision for further claims made with respect to approximately $7,570,000 of VAT reported during 2006. The Company believes that it will prevail based upon the merits of its positions, which have been supported by new VAT regulations and recent favorable decisions in lower level courts. However, there can be no assurances made whether the Company will ultimately prevail in these matters. In addition, the Company has not received any notification with certain VAT reporting periods which remain subject to possible future review and claims. The Company has recorded a provision in the amount of $995,000 for taxes that could possibly be asserted relating to activities in Russia among its U.S., Cyprus and Russian-based entities that could be viewed as representing that the Company has a permanent establishment in Russia. 20 Table of Contents Any U.S. or other foreign judgments that may be obtained against us may be difficult to enforce against us in Russia. Although we are a Delaware corporation, subject to suit in U.S. federal and other courts, we have no operations in the United States, substantially all of our assets are located in Russia, and several of our directors and their assets are located outside the United States. Although arbitration awards are generally enforceable in Russia, judgments obtained in the United States or in other foreign courts, including those with respect to U.S. federal securities law claims, may not be enforceable in Russia. There is no mutual recognition treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation, and no Russian federal law provides for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments. Therefore, it may be difficult in practice to enforce any U.S. or other foreign court judgment obtained against our company, any of our operating subsidiaries or any of our directors in Russia. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 