Item 1A Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 3 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 6 Item 2 Properties 6 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 6 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 6 Part II. Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 8 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 9 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 10 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 26 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 26 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 47 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B Other Information 47 Part III. Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 47 Item 11 Executive Compensation 47 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 47 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 48 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 48 Part IV. Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 48 Signatures 51 Exhibits All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners and are used with permission. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business McDonald’s Corporation, the registrant, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to herein as the “Company.” a. General development of business During 2011, there have been no material changes to the Company’s corporate structure or in its method of conducting business. In 2011, the Company has continued the process it began in 2005 to realign certain subsidiaries to develop a corporate structure within its geographic segments that better reflects the operation of the McDonald’s worldwide business. b. Financial information about segments Segment data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are included in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. c. Narrative description of business • General The Company franchises and operates McDonald’s restaurants in the global restaurant industry. These restaurants serve a broad menu (see Products) at various price points providing value in 119 countries around the world. All restaurants are operated either by the Company or by franchisees, including conventional franchisees under franchise arrangements, and developmental licensees and foreign affiliated markets under license agreements. The Company’s operations are designed to assure consistency and high quality at every restaurant. When granting franchises or licenses, the Company is selective and generally is not in the practice of franchising to passive investors. Under the conventional franchise arrangement, franchisees provide a portion of the capital required by initially investing in the equipment, signs, seating and décor of their restaurant businesses, and by reinvesting in the business over time. The Company owns the land and building or secures long-term leases for both Company-operated and conventional franchised restaurant sites. In certain circumstances, the Company participates in reinvestment for conventional franchised restaurants. A discussion regarding site selection is included in Part I, Item 2, page 6 of this Form 10-K. Conventional franchisees contribute to the Company’s revenue stream through the payment of rent and royalties based upon a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments, along with initial fees received upon the opening of a new restaurant or the granting of a new franchise term. The conventional franchise arrangement typically lasts 20 years, and franchising practices are generally consistent throughout the world. Over 70% of franchised restaurants operate under conventional franchise arrangements. Under a developmental license arrangement, licensees provide capital for the entire business, including the real estate interest. While the Company has no capital invested, it receives a royalty based on a percent of sales, as well as initial fees. The largest of these developmental license arrangements operates over 1,800 restaurants across 19 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Company has an equity investment in a limited number of foreign affiliated markets, referred to as affiliates. The largest of these affiliates is Japan, where there are approximately 3,300 restaurants. The Company receives a royalty based on a percent of sales in these markets and records its share of net results in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. The Company and its franchisees purchase food, packaging, equipment and other goods from numerous independent suppliers. The Company has established and strictly enforces high quality standards and product specifications. The Company has quality centers around the world to ensure that its high standards are consistently met. The quality assurance process not only involves ongoing product reviews, but also on-site supplier visits. A quality leadership board, composed of the Company’s technical, safety and supply chain specialists, provides strategic global leadership for all aspects of food quality and safety. In addition, the Company works closely with suppliers to encourage innovation, assure best practices and drive continuous improvement. Leveraging scale, supply chain infrastructure and risk management strategies, the Company also collaborates with suppliers toward a goal of achieving competitive, predictable food and paper costs over the long term. Independently owned and operated distribution centers, approved by the Company, distribute products and supplies to most McDonald’s restaurants. In addition, restaurant personnel are trained in the proper storage, handling and preparation of products and in the delivery of customer service. McDonald’s global brand is well known. Marketing, promotional and public relations activities are designed to promote McDonald’s brand image and differentiate the Company from competitors. Marketing and promotional efforts focus on value, food taste, menu choice, nutrition, convenience and the customer experience. The Company continuously endeavors to improve its social responsibility and environmental practices to achieve long-term sustainability, which benefits McDonald’s and the communities it serves. • Products McDonald’s restaurants offer a substantially uniform menu, although there are geographic variations to suit local consumer preferences and tastes. In addition, McDonald’s tests new products on an ongoing basis. McDonald’s menu includes hamburgers and cheeseburgers, Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Filet-O-Fish, several chicken sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets, Snack Wraps, french fries, salads, oatmeal, shakes, McFlurry desserts, sundaes, soft serve cones, pies, soft drinks, coffee, McCafé beverages and other beverages. In addition, the restaurants sell a variety of other products during limited-time promotions. McDonald’s restaurants in the U.S. and many international markets offer a full or limited breakfast menu. Breakfast offerings may include Egg McMuffin, Sausage McMuffin with Egg, McGriddles, biscuit and bagel sandwiches and hotcakes. • Intellectual property The Company owns or is licensed to use valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. The Company considers the trademarks “McDonald’s” and “The Golden Arches Logo” to be of material importance to its business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks generally are valid McDonald’s Corporation Annual Report 2011 1 Table of Contents as long as they are used and/or registered. Patents, copyrights and licenses are of varying remaining durations. • Seasonal operations The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. • Working capital practices Information about the Company’s working capital practices is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 in Part II, Item 7, pages 10 through 26, and the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 in Part II, Item 8, page 29 of this Form 10-K. • Customers The Company’s business is not dependent upon either a single customer or small group of customers. • Backlog Company-operated restaurants have no backlog orders. • Government contracts No material portion of the business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government. • Competition McDonald’s restaurants compete with international, national, regional and local retailers of food products. The Company competes on the basis of price, convenience, service, menu variety and product quality in a highly fragmented global restaurant industry. In measuring the Company’s competitive position, management reviews data compiled by Euromonitor International, a leading source of market data with respect to the global restaurant industry. The Company’s primary competition, which management refers to as the Informal Eating Out (IEO) segment, includes the following restaurant categories defined by Euromonitor International: quick-service eating establishments, casual dining full-service restaurants, 100% home delivery/takeaway providers, street stalls or kiosks, specialist coffee shops, juice/smoothie bars and self-service cafeterias. The IEO segment excludes establishments that primarily serve alcohol and full-service restaurants other than casual dining. Based on data from Euromonitor International, the global IEO segment was composed of approximately 6.5 million outlets and generated $933 billion in annual sales in 2010, the most recent year for which data is available. McDonald’s Systemwide 2010 restaurant business accounted for approximately 0.5% of those outlets and about 8% of the sales. Management also on occasion benchmarks McDonald’s against the entire restaurant industry, including the IEO segment defined above and all other full-service restaurants. Based on data from Euromonitor International, the restaurant industry was composed of approximately 13.7 million outlets and generated about $1.86 trillion in annual sales in 2010. McDonald’s Systemwide restaurant business accounted for approximately 0.2% of those outlets and about 4% of the sales. • Research and development The Company operates research and development facilities in the U.S., Europe and Asia. While research and development activities are important to the Company’s business, these expenditures are not material. Independent suppliers also conduct research activities that benefit the Company, its franchisees and suppliers (collectively referred to as the System). • Environmental matters Increased focus by U.S. and overseas governmental authorities on environmental matters is likely to lead to new governmental initiatives, particularly in the area of climate change. While we cannot predict the precise nature of these initiatives, we expect that they may impact our business both directly and indirectly. Although the impact would likely vary by world region and/or market, we believe that adoption of new regulations may increase costs, including for the Company, its franchisees and suppliers. Also, there is a possibility that governmental initiatives, or actual or perceived effects of changes in weather patterns or climate, could have a direct impact on the operations of our restaurants or the operations of our suppliers in ways which we cannot predict at this time. The Company monitors developments related to environmental matters and plans to respond to governmental initiatives in a timely and appropriate manner. At this time, the Company has already begun to undertake its own initiatives relating to preservation of the environment, including the development of means to monitor and reduce energy use, in many of its markets. • Number of employees The Company’s number of employees worldwide, including Company-operated restaurant employees, was approximately 420,000 as of year-end 2011. d. Financial information about geographic areas Financial information about geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Part II, Item 7, pages 10 through 26 and Segment and geographic information in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. e. Available information The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The Company therefore files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. Financial and other information can also be accessed on the investor section of the Company’s website at www.aboutmcdonalds.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of financial and other information are also available free of charge by calling (800) 228-9623 or by sending a request to 2 McDonald’s Corporation Annual Report 2011 Table of Contents McDonald’s Corporation Shareholder Services, Department 720, 2111 McDonald’s Drive, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. Also posted on McDonald’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of McDonald’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance Committee, the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct, the Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors. Copies of these documents are also available free of charge by calling (800) 228-9623 or by sending a request to McDonald’s Corporation Shareholder Services, Department 720, 2111 McDonald’s Drive, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or the Company’s other securities filings and is not a part of them. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The information on this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for 2012. These statements use such words as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe” and “plan.” They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. The IEO segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The IEO segment has been contracting in many markets, including some major markets, due to unfavorable economic conditions, and this may continue. Persistently high unemployment rates in many markets have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. Combined with increasing pressure on commodity and labor costs, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and margin growth despite the strength of our brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food “from field to front counter,” as well as industry marketing practices. These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win. The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and results—people, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: • Our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the IEO segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about us, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us; • The risks associated with our franchise business model, including whether our franchisees and developmental licensees will have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives and the potential impact on us if they experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited by local law or otherwise, costly to exercise or subject to litigation; • Our ability to drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours, and to motivate our restaurant personnel and our franchisees to achieve consistency and high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; • Whether our restaurant reimaging and rebuilding plans, which remain a priority, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals and whether we can complete our plans as and when projected; • The costs and operational risks associated with our increasing reliance on information technology (including our point-of-sale and other in-store technology systems or platforms), including the risk that we will not realize fully the benefits of our investments in technology, which we are accelerating, as well as the potential for system failures, programming errors or breaches of security involving our systems or those of third-party operators of our systems; • The success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; • Our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the IEO segment or about our products (including their nutritional content), promotions and premiums, such as Happy Meals (collectively, our products), how we source the commodities we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on McDonald’s of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; McDonald’s Corporation Annual Report 2011 3 Table of Contents • The impact of social media and other mobile communications or photo applications that can be used to promote adverse perceptions of our operations or those of our suppliers, or to promote or threaten boycotts or other actions involving us or our suppliers, with significantly greater speed and scope than traditional media outlets; • The success of our tiered approach to menu offerings and our ability to introduce new offerings, as well as the impact of our competitors’ actions, including in response to our menu changes, and our ability to continue robust menu development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; • Our ability to differentiate the McDonald’s experience in a way that balances consumer value with margin expansion, particularly in markets where pricing or cost pressures are significant or have been exacerbated by the current challenging economic and operating environment; • The impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins and our ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to changing economic conditions; • The impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the McDonald’s System and whose performance has a material impact on our results; • Our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth, particularly in certain developing markets; and • Our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges or restaurant closings. Some macroeconomic conditions have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and extreme volatility in financial markets worldwide, which has been exacerbated by the significant uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Eurozone countries. This environment has adversely affected both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. These unfavorable conditions are expected to persist for the foreseeable future in many of our most important markets. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following: • Whether our strategies will be effective in enabling the continued market share gains that we have included in our plans, while at the same time enabling us to achieve our targeted operating income growth, despite the uncertain economic outlook, resurgent competitors and a more costly and competitive advertising environment; • The effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply on favorable terms; • The impact on consumer disposable income levels and spending habits of governmental actions to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers; • The impact on restaurant sales and margins of recent volatility in commodity and gasoline prices, which we expect will continue and may be exacerbated by current events in the Middle East, and the impact of pricing, hedging and other actions that we, franchisees and suppliers may take to address this environment; • The impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the long-term trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and any potential impact of union organizing efforts; • The impact of foreign exchange and interest rates on our financial condition and results; • Whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of Systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; • The challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; • The nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings; and • The impact of changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. Increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: • The cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, especially in the United States where inconsistent standards 4 McDonald’s Corporation Annual Report 2011 Table of Contents imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings; • The impact of new, potential or changing regulation that can affect our business plans, such as those relating to marketing and the content and safety of our food and other products, as well as the risks and costs of our labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given varying legal requirements and practices for testing and disclosure within our industry, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers; • The impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation, including taxation, in ways that could be material to our business; • The risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of increased focus by U.S. and overseas governmental authorities and non-governmental organizations on environmental matters, such as environmental sustainability, climate change, greenhouse gases and water consumption, including initiatives that effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions; • The impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment claims, landlord/tenant disputes and intellectual property claims (including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems); the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have; • Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; • The increasing costs and other effects of compliance with U.S. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, immigration, healthcare, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; • Disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors’ operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; • The legal and compliance risks associated with information technology, such as the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches (including the loss of consumer confidence that may result and the risk of criminal penalties or civil liability to consumers or employees whose data is alleged to have been collected or used inappropriately) and potential challenges to the associated intellectual property rights or to our use of that intellectual property; and • The impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or related authoritative interpretations), particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the United States and elsewhere, and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the IRS or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: • The continuing unfavorable global economic and extremely volatile market conditions; • Governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the United States which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; • Changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; • Trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can reflect market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases) or expectations about our business, our creditworthiness or investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald’s may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average; • The impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and • The impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. Our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and McDonald’s Corporation Annual Report 2011 5 Table of Contents prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 