Item 1A Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 4 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 7 Item 2 Properties 7 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 7 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Shareholders 9 Part II. Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 10 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 11 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 12 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 51 Item 9B Other Information 51 Part III. Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 51 Item 11 Executive Compensation 51 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 51 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 52 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 52 Part IV. Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 52 Signatures 55 Exhibits 56 All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners and are used with permission. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS McDonald’s Corporation, the registrant, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to herein as the “Company.” a. General development of business During 2008, there have been no significant changes to the Company’s corporate structure or material changes in the Company’s method of conducting business. b. Financial information about segments Segment data for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are included in Part II, Item 8, page 44 of this Form 10-K. c. Narrative description of business • General The Company franchises and operates McDonald’s restaurants in the food service industry. These restaurants serve a varied, yet limited, value-priced menu (see Products) in more than 100 countries around the world. All restaurants are operated either by the Company or by franchisees, including conventional franchisees under franchise arrangements, and foreign affiliated markets and developmental licensees under license agreements. The Company’s operations are designed to assure consistency and high quality at every restaurant. When granting franchises or licenses, the Company is selective and generally is not in the practice of franchising to passive investors. Under the conventional franchise arrangement, franchisees provide a portion of the capital required by initially investing in the equipment, signs, seating and décor of their restaurant businesses, and by reinvesting in the business over time. The Company generally shares the initial investment by owning the land and building or securing long-term leases for both Company-operated and conventional franchised restaurant sites. A discussion regarding site selection is included in Part I, Item 2, page 7 of this Form 10-K. Conventional franchisees contribute to the Company’s revenue stream through the payment of rent and royalties based upon a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments, along with initial fees received upon the opening of a new restaurant or the granting of a new franchise term. The conventional franchise arrangement typically lasts 20 years, and franchising practices are generally consistent throughout the world. Approximately 70% of franchised restaurants operate under conventional franchise arrangements. The Company has an equity investment in a limited number of foreign affiliated markets, referred to as affiliates. The largest of these affiliates is Japan, where there are 3,755 restaurants. The Company receives a royalty based on a percent of sales in these markets. Under a developmental license arrangement, licensees provide capital for the entire business, including the real estate interest. While the Company has no capital invested, it receives a royalty based on a percent of sales, as well as initial fees. During 2007, the Company sold its businesses in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and 13 other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, which totaled 1,571 restaurants, to a developmental licensee organization. These markets are referred to as “Latam.” The Company and its franchisees purchase food, packaging, equipment and other goods from numerous independent suppliers. The Company has established and strictly enforces high quality standards and product specifications. The Company has quality assurance labs around the world to ensure that its high standards are consistently met. The quality assurance process not only involves ongoing product reviews, but also on-site inspections of suppliers’ facilities. Further, a quality assurance board, composed of the Company’s technical, safety and supply chain specialists, provides strategic global leadership for all aspects of food quality and safety. In addition, the Company works closely with suppliers to encourage innovation, assure best practices and drive continuous improvement. Leveraging scale, supply chain infrastructure and risk management strategies, the Company also collaborates with suppliers toward a goal of achieving competitive, predictable food and paper costs. Independently owned and operated distribution centers, approved by the Company, distribute products and supplies to most McDonald’s restaurants. In addition, restaurant personnel are trained in the proper storage, handling and preparation of products and in the delivery of customer service. McDonald’s global brand is well known. Marketing, promotional and public relations activities are designed to promote McDonald’s brand image and differentiate the Company from competitors. Marketing and promotional efforts focus on value, food taste, menu choice and the customer experience. The Company believes that continuously improving its social and environmental performance to achieve long-term sustainability benefits McDonald’s and the communities it serves. In April 2008, the Company sold its minority ownership interest in U.K.-based Pret A Manger. The Company operated Boston Market in the U.S., prior to its sale in August 2007. Prior to October 2006, the Company had an ownership interest in Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle). During 2006, the Company disposed of its investment in Chipotle through sales of shares and ultimately a tax-free exchange of all remaining shares held. • Products McDonald’s restaurants offer a substantially uniform menu, although there may be geographic variations. In addition, McDonald’s tests new products on an ongoing basis. McDonald’s menu includes hamburgers and cheeseburgers, Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Filet-O-Fish, several chicken sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets, Chicken Selects, french fries, premium salads, shakes, McFlurry desserts, sundaes, soft serve cones, pies, cookies, soft drinks, coffee and other beverages. In addition, the restaurants sell a variety of other products during limited-time promotions. McDonald’s restaurants in the U.S. and many international markets offer a full or limited breakfast menu. Breakfast offerings may include Egg McMuffin, Sausage McMuffin with Egg, McGriddles, biscuit and bagel sandwiches, hotcakes and muffins. • Intellectual property The Company owns or is licensed to use valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. The Company considers the trademarks “McDonald’s” and “The Golden Arches Logo” to be of material importance to its business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks generally are valid as long as they are used and/or registered. Patents, copyrights and licenses are of varying remaining durations. 3 Table of Contents • Seasonal operations The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. • Working capital practices Information about the Company’s working capital practices is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 in Part II, Item 7, pages 12 through 30, and the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 in Part II, Item 8, page 34 of this Form 10-K. • Customers The Company’s business is not dependent upon either a single customer or small group of customers. • Backlog Company-operated restaurants have no backlog orders. • Government contracts No material portion of the business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government. • Competition McDonald’s restaurants compete with international, national, regional and local retailers of food products. The Company competes on the basis of price, convenience, service, menu variety and product quality. The Company’s competition in the broadest perspective includes restaurants, quick-service eating establishments, pizza parlors, coffee shops, street vendors, convenience food stores, delicatessens and supermarkets. The U.S. restaurant industry is composed of approximately 575,000 restaurants that generated about $370 billion in annual sales in 2008. McDonald’s restaurant business accounts for 2.4% of those restaurants and 8.1% of the sales. No reasonable estimate can be made of the number of competitors outside the U.S. • Research and development The Company operates research and development facilities in the U.S., Europe and Asia. While research and development activities are important to the Company’s business, these expenditures are not material. Independent suppliers also conduct research activities that benefit the Company, its franchisees and suppliers (collectively referred to as the System). • Environmental matters During 2008, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated. The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position or result in material capital expenditures in the foreseeable future. However, there has been an increasing focus on climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters, such as the emission of greenhouse gases. The Company is unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on the business as those effects are likely to be complex. • Number of employees The Company’s number of employees worldwide, including Company-operated restaurant employees, was approximately 400,000 as of year-end 2008. d. Financial information about geographic areas Financial information about geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Part II, Item 7, pages 12 through 30 and Segment and geographic information in Part II, Item 8, page 44 of this Form 10-K. e. Available information The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The Company therefore files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. Financial and other information can also be accessed on the investor section of the Company’s website at www.mcdonalds.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of financial and other information are also available free of charge by calling (630) 623-7428 or by sending a request to McDonald’s Corporation Investor Relations Service Center, Department 300, One McDonald’s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. Also posted on McDonald’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of McDonald’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance Committee, the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct, the Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors. Copies of these documents are also available free of charge by calling (630) 623-7428 or by sending a request to McDonald’s Corporation Investor Relations Service Center, Department 300, One McDonald’s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer, James A. Skinner, certified to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on June 11, 2008, pursuant to Section 303A.12 of the NYSE’s listing standards, that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as of that date. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or the Company’s other securities filings and is not a part of them. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for 2009. These statements use such words as “may,” “will,” “expect,” 4 Table of Contents “believe” and “plan.” They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. We also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food “from field to front counter” presents challenges for our Brand. These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win. The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and results—people, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: • Our ability to anticipate and respond to trends or other factors that affect the informal eating out market and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about our products, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us, as well as our success in addressing these trends and factors or other competitive pressures; • The success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; • Our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service segment of the informal eating out market, our products and promotions (including the premiums we offer, such as our Happy Meal toys) or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of the ingredients we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on McDonald’s of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; • The success of our plans to improve existing products and to roll-out new products and product line extensions, as well as the impact of our competitors’ actions, including in response to our product improvements and introductions, and our ability to continue robust product development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; • Our ability to achieve an overall product mix that differentiates the McDonald’s experience and balances consumer value with margin expansion, including in markets where cost or pricing pressures may be significant; • The impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on product sales and margins and on our ability to target these efforts effectively to maintain or expand market share and increase guest counts; • The impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the McDonald’s System and whose performance has a material impact on our results; • Our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth in certain developing markets; • Our ability to drive restaurant improvements and to motivate our restaurant personnel to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; • Our ability to maintain alignment with our franchisees on capital-intensive and other operating and promotional initiatives; • The risks to our Brand if a franchisee or licensee defaults in its obligations (particularly requirements to pay royalties, make capital investments and open new restaurants), experiences food safety or other operational problems or otherwise projects a brand image inconsistent with our values, all of which become more significant risks if an agreement places a large number of restaurants under the control of a single franchisee or licensee as is the case in Latin America; • Whether our ongoing restaurant remodeling and rebuilding initiatives, which vary from year to year by market and type, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our Brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; and • Our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Certain macroeconomic events, such as the current uncertain economic conditions, could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact on the general business environment, which could also adversely affect us. Whether we can manage these risks effectively depends mainly on the following: • Our ability to manage volatile commodity prices and the anticipated negative impact on our 2009 results of fluctuations in 5 Table of Contents foreign exchange rates, as well as any impact of changes in interest rates and governmental actions to manage national economic conditions such as the availability of credit, consumer spending, unemployment levels and inflation rates; • The impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and the potential impact of union organizing efforts on day-to-day operations of our restaurants; • Whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites, either directly or through licensees or other parties, consistent with our plans for net growth of Systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; • The challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, such as China, Russia and India, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; and • The nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings, such as those that may occur as we change our ownership mix. Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations. In recent years, we have reduced the number of Company-operated restaurants and we are planning further reductions by refranchising Company-operated restaurants or entering into developmental license agreements. Whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following: • Our ability to identify prospective franchisees and licensees with the experience and financial resources in the relevant markets to be effective operators of McDonald’s restaurants and how quickly we can reach agreement with our counterparties, which we expect will vary by market and could also vary significantly from period to period; • The nature and amount of contingent liabilities and other exposures we may retain in connection with developmental license agreements, such as the indemnification obligations we may incur as a result of the Latam transaction; • The risk that our contractual and other rights and remedies to protect against defaults by our counterparties will be limited by local law, costly to exercise or otherwise subject to limitations or litigation that may impair our ability to prevent or mitigate any adverse impact on our Brand or on the financial performance we expect under our franchising and developmental license agreements; and • Changes in the operating or legal environment and other circumstances that cause us to delay or revise our plans to alter our ownership mix, including potential constraints on access to capital by existing or prospective franchisees. Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: • The cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting regulations we face, especially in the United States where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to advertising to children, nutritional content and product labeling and safety; • The impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation in ways that could be material to our business; • The risks and costs of McDonald’s nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences among applicable legal requirements and practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information obtained from third party suppliers; • The impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment claims and landlord/tenant disputes, the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; and the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our Brand and products; • Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products or the appropriateness or accuracy of our advertising or other communications; • The increasing costs and other effects of compliance with existing and possible future U.S. federal, state and local regulations regarding immigration and evolving enforcement standards under those regulations, as well as compliance with other U.S. and overseas labor regulations, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, job classifications, mandatory healthcare benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; • The impact of the current economic conditions on unemployment levels and consumer confidence, particularly if conditions worsen in 2009, and the effect of initiatives to stimulate economic recovery and to stabilize or further regulate financial markets on the cost and availability of funding for the Company and its franchisees, inflation and foreign exchange rates; • Disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price or import-export controls or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors’ operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to government investigations, whether or not they have merit or are undertaken to achieve political impact; 6 Table of Contents • The risks associated with information security and the use of cashless payments, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments increases, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches and the loss of consumer confidence that may result; and • The impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, related legal or regulatory interpretations or our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or interpretations thereof), and the impact of settlements of adjustments proposed by the IRS in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: • The current uncertain global economic conditions and market volatility; • Governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the United States which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; • Trading activity in our common stock or related instruments, which can reflect market commentary or expectations about our business (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases), significant purchases by shareholders who may seek to affect our business strategies, or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald’s may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average; and • The impact of our stock repurchase program, dividend rate or changes in our debt levels that may affect our credit ratings, interest expense, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants, as well as the impact of other corporate actions, such as initiatives to rationalize our corporate structure. Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. Severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 