Item 1A Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 3 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 5 Item 2 Properties 6 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 6 Part II. Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 7 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 9 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 10 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 27 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 27 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B Other Information 48 Part III. Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 48 Item 11 Executive Compensation 48 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 48 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 49 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 49 Part IV. Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 49 Signatures 52 Exhibits 53 All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners and are used with permission. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business McDonald’s Corporation, the registrant, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to herein as the “Company.” a. General development of business During 2010, there have been no material changes to the Company’s corporate structure or in its method of conducting business. In 2010, the Company has continued the process it began in 2005 to realign certain subsidiaries to develop a corporate structure within its geographic segments that better reflects the operation of the McDonald’s worldwide business. b. Financial information about segments Segment data for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 are included in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. c. Narrative description of business • General The Company franchises and operates McDonald’s restaurants in the global restaurant industry. These restaurants serve a varied, yet limited, value-priced menu (see Products) in more than 100 countries around the world. All restaurants are operated either by the Company or by franchisees, including conventional franchisees under franchise arrangements, and foreign affiliated markets and developmental licensees under license agreements. The Company’s operations are designed to assure consistency and high quality at every restaurant. When granting franchises or licenses, the Company is selective and generally is not in the practice of franchising to passive investors. Under the conventional franchise arrangement, franchisees provide a portion of the capital required by initially investing in the equipment, signs, seating and décor of their restaurant businesses, and by reinvesting in the business over time. The Company owns the land and building or secures long-term leases for both Company-operated and conventional franchised restaurant sites. In certain circumstances, the Company participates in reinvestment for conventional franchised restaurants. A discussion regarding site selection is included in Part I, Item 2, page 6 of this Form 10-K. Conventional franchisees contribute to the Company’s revenue stream through the payment of rent and royalties based upon a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments, along with initial fees received upon the opening of a new restaurant or the granting of a new franchise term. The conventional franchise arrangement typically lasts 20 years, and franchising practices are generally consistent throughout the world. Over 70% of franchised restaurants operate under conventional franchise arrangements. The Company has an equity investment in a limited number of foreign affiliated markets, referred to as affiliates. The largest of these affiliates is Japan, where there are more than 3,300 restaurants. The Company receives a royalty based on a percent of sales in these markets. Under a developmental license arrangement, licensees provide capital for the entire business, including the real estate interest. While the Company has no capital invested, it receives a royalty based on a percent of sales, as well as initial fees. The largest of these developmental license arrangements operates more than 1,750 restaurants across 18 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Company and its franchisees purchase food, packaging, equipment and other goods from numerous independent suppliers. The Company has established and strictly enforces high quality standards and product specifications. The Company has quality assurance labs around the world to ensure that its high standards are consistently met. The quality assurance process not only involves ongoing product reviews, but also on-site inspections of suppliers’ facilities. A quality assurance board, composed of the Company’s technical, safety and supply chain specialists, provides strategic global leadership for all aspects of food quality and safety. In addition, the Company works closely with suppliers to encourage innovation, assure best practices and drive continuous improvement. Leveraging scale, supply chain infrastructure and risk management strategies, the Company also collaborates with suppliers toward a goal of achieving competitive, predictable food and paper costs over the long term. Independently owned and operated distribution centers, approved by the Company, distribute products and supplies to most McDonald’s restaurants. In addition, restaurant personnel are trained in the proper storage, handling and preparation of products and in the delivery of customer service. McDonald’s global brand is well known. Marketing, promotional and public relations activities are designed to promote McDonald’s brand image and differentiate the Company from competitors. Marketing and promotional efforts focus on value, food taste, menu choice and the customer experience. The Company continuously endeavors to improve its social responsibility and environmental practices to achieve long-term sustainability, which benefits McDonald’s and the communities it serves. The Company has disposed of non-McDonald’s restaurant businesses to concentrate resources on its core business. In February 2009, the Company sold its minority ownership interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC, and in April 2008, the Company sold its minority ownership interest in U.K.-based Pret A Manger. • Products McDonald’s restaurants offer a substantially uniform menu, although there are geographic variations to suit local consumer preferences and tastes. In addition, McDonald’s tests new products on an ongoing basis. McDonald’s menu includes hamburgers and cheeseburgers, Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Filet-O-Fish, several chicken sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets, Chicken Selects, Snack Wraps, french fries, salads, shakes, McFlurry desserts, sundaes, soft serve cones, pies, cookies, soft drinks, coffee, McCafé beverages and other beverages. In addition, the restaurants sell a variety of other products during limited-time promotions. McDonald’s restaurants in the U.S. and many international markets offer a full or limited breakfast menu. Breakfast offerings may include Egg McMuffin, Sausage McMuffin with Egg, McGriddles, biscuit and bagel sandwiches and hotcakes. 1 Table of Contents • Intellectual property The Company owns or is licensed to use valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. The Company considers the trademarks “McDonald’s” and “The Golden Arches Logo” to be of material importance to its business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks generally are valid as long as they are used and/or registered. Patents, copyrights and licenses are of varying remaining durations. • Seasonal operations The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. • Working capital practices Information about the Company’s working capital practices is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 in Part II, Item 7, pages 10 through 27, and the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 in Part II, Item 8, page 30 of this Form 10-K. • Customers The Company’s business is not dependent upon either a single customer or small group of customers. • Backlog Company-operated restaurants have no backlog orders. • Government contracts No material portion of the business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government. • Competition McDonald’s restaurants compete with international, national, regional and local retailers of food products. The Company competes on the basis of price, convenience, service, menu variety and product quality in a highly fragmented global restaurant industry. In measuring the Company’s competitive position, management reviews data compiled by Euromonitor International, a leading source of market data with respect to the global restaurant industry. The Company’s primary competition, which management refers to as the Informal Eating Out (IEO) segment, includes the following restaurant categories defined by Euromonitor International: quick-service eating establishments, casual dining full-service restaurants, 100% home delivery/takeaway providers, street stalls or kiosks, specialist coffee shops and self-service cafeterias. The IEO segment excludes establishments that primarily serve alcohol and full-service restaurants other than casual dining. Based on data from Euromonitor International, the global IEO segment was composed of approximately 6.3 million outlets and generated $868 billion in annual sales in 2009, the most recent year for which data is available. McDonald’s Systemwide 2009 restaurant business accounted for approximately 0.5% of those outlets and about 8% of the sales. Management also on occasion benchmarks McDonald’s against the entire restaurant industry, including the IEO segment defined above and all other full-service restaurants. Based on data from Euromonitor International, the restaurant industry was composed of approximately 13.1 million outlets and generated about $1.79 trillion in annual sales in 2009. McDonald’s Systemwide restaurant business accounted for approximately 0.2% of those outlets and about 4% of the sales. • Research and development The Company operates research and development facilities in the U.S., Europe and Asia. While research and development activities are important to the Company’s business, these expenditures are not material. Independent suppliers also conduct research activities that benefit the Company, its franchisees and suppliers (collectively referred to as the System). • Environmental matters Increased focus by U.S. and overseas governmental authorities on environmental matters is likely to lead to new governmental initiatives, particularly in the area of climate change. While we cannot predict the precise nature of these initiatives, we expect that they may impact our business both directly and indirectly. Although the impact would likely vary by world region and/or market, we believe that adoption of new regulations may increase costs, including for the Company, its franchisees and suppliers. Also, there is a possibility that governmental initiatives, or actual or perceived effects of changes in weather patterns or climate, could have a direct impact on the operations of our restaurants or the operations of our suppliers in ways which we cannot predict at this time. The Company monitors developments related to environmental matters and plans to respond to governmental initiatives in a timely and appropriate manner. At this time, the Company has already undertaken its own initiatives relating to preservation of the environment, including the development of means of monitoring and reducing energy use, in many of its markets. • Number of employees The Company’s number of employees worldwide, including Company-operated restaurant employees, was approximately 400,000 as of year-end 2010. d. Financial information about geographic areas Financial information about geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Part II, Item 7, pages 10 through 27 and Segment and geographic information in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. e. Available information The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The Company therefore files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. 2 Table of Contents Financial and other information can also be accessed on the investor section of the Company’s website at www.aboutmcdonalds.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of financial and other information are also available free of charge by calling (630) 623-7428 or by sending a request to McDonald’s Corporation Shareholder Services, Department 720, One McDonald’s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. Also posted on McDonald’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of McDonald’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance Committee, the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct, the Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors. Copies of these documents are also available free of charge by calling (630) 623-7428 or by sending a request to McDonald’s Corporation Shareholder Services, Department 720, One McDonald’s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or the Company’s other securities filings and is not a part of them. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for 2011. These statements use such words as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe” and “plan.” They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The IEO segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The current economic environment has caused the IEO segment to contract in many markets, including some of our major markets, and this may continue. The current environment, including persistently high unemployment rates in many of our markets, has also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing pressures across the industry. Combined with increasing pressure on commodity and labor costs, these circumstances could affect our ability to continue to grow comparable sales and margins despite the strength of our brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, as well as by the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food “from field to front counter.” The risks we face can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win. The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and results—people, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: • Our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the IEO segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about us, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us; • Our ability to drive restaurant improvements and to motivate our restaurant personnel to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; • Whether our restaurant reimaging and rebuilding efforts, which remain a priority notwithstanding the current challenging economic and operating environment, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; • The risks associated with our franchise business model, including whether our franchisees and developmental licensees will have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives and the potential impact on us if they experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited by local law or otherwise, costly to exercise or subject to litigation; • The success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; • Our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the IEO segment or about our products, promotions and premiums, such as Happy Meals (collectively, our products), or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of our products, and our ability to manage the potential impact on McDonald’s of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; • The success of our plans to improve existing menu items and to roll out new menu items, as well as the impact of our competitors’ actions, including in response to our menu changes and product introductions, and our ability to continue robust menu development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; 3 Table of Contents • Our ability to differentiate the McDonald’s experience in a way that balances consumer value with margin expansion, particularly in markets where pricing or cost pressures are significant or have been exacerbated by the current challenging economic and operating environment; • The impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins and our ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to changing economic conditions; • The impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the McDonald’s System and whose performance has a material impact on our results; • Our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth in certain developing markets; • Our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way; and • The costs and operational risks associated with our increasing reliance on information technology (including our point-of-sale and other in-store technology systems or platforms), such as the need for increasing investments to upgrade and maintain our systems, the potential for system failures or programming errors and the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments becomes more widespread. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Some macroeconomic conditions could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates and continuing uncertainty in financial and credit markets. These conditions have significantly affected consumer confidence and spending. Moreover, the strength of the current recovery is uncertain in many of our most important markets, and growth in consumer spending generally lags improvement in the broader economy. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following: • Whether our strategies will permit us to compete effectively and make continued market share gains despite the uncertain economic outlook, while at the same time achieving sales and operating income within our targeted long-term average annual range of growth; • The effectiveness of our supply chain management, including hedging strategies, to assure reliable and sufficient product supply on favorable terms; • The impact of foreign exchange and interest rates, as well as governmental actions to manage national economic matters, including austerity initiatives, credit availability, unemployment and taxation rates, all of which can also affect relative levels of disposable income and discretionary expenditures, such as food away from home; • The impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the long-term trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and any potential impact of union organizing efforts; • Whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of Systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; • The challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, such as China and Russia, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; and • The nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings. Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: • The cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, especially in the United States where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to marketing to children, nutritional content and product labeling and safety; • The impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation, including taxation, in ways that could be material to our business; • The risks and costs of McDonald’s nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences among applicable legal requirements and practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and 4 Table of Contents the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information obtained from third party suppliers; • The risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of increased focus by U.S. and overseas governmental authorities and non-governmental organizations on environmental matters, such as climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gases and water consumption, including as a result of initiatives that effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions; • The impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment claims and landlord/tenant disputes; the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; and the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; • Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; • The increasing costs and other effects of compliance with U.S. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, immigration, mandatory healthcare benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; • The impact of the current economic conditions on unemployment levels and consumer confidence and the effect of initiatives to stimulate economic recovery and to further regulate financial markets on the cost and availability of funding for the Company and its franchisees, inflation and foreign exchange rates; • Disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors’ operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; • The legal and compliance risks associated with information technology, such as the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches (including the loss of consumer confidence that may result and the risk of criminal penalties or civil liability to consumers or employees whose data is alleged to have been collected or used inappropriately) and potential challenges to the associated intellectual property rights; and • The impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or authoritative interpretations relating to any of these matters), and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the IRS or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: • The continuing uncertain global economic and market conditions; • Governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the United States which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; • Changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; • Trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can reflect market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases) or expectations about our business, our creditworthiness or investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald’s may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average; • The impact of our stock repurchase program, dividend rate or changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants; and • The impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics, or expectations about them, can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 5 Table of Contents 