Item 1A Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 3 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 5 Item 2 Properties 5 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 5 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Shareholders 7 Part II. Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 8 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 9 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 11 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 29 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 49 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 49 Item 9B Other Information 49 Part III. Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 49 Item 11 Executive Compensation 49 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 49 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 49 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 49 Part IV. Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 49 Signatures 52 Exhibits 53 The following trademarks used herein are the property of McDonald’s Corporation and its affiliates or the Company: Big Mac, Boston Market, Chicken McNuggets, Chicken Selects, Egg McMuffin, Filet-O-Fish, i’m lovin’ it, McDonald’s, McFlurry, McGriddles, Quarter Pounder, Ronald McDonald, Sausage McMuffin, Snack Wrap, The Golden Arches Logo and mcdonalds.com. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS McDonald’s Corporation, the registrant, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to herein as the “Company.” a. General development of business During 2006, there have been no significant changes to the Company’s corporate structure or material changes in the Company’s method of conducting business. b. Financial information about segments Segment data for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are included in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. c. Narrative description of business • General The Company primarily franchises and operates McDonald’s restaurants in the food service industry. These restaurants serve a varied, yet limited, value-priced menu (see Products) in more than 100 countries around the world. The Company also operates Boston Market and has a minority ownership interest in U.K.-based Pret A Manger and prior to October 2006, had an ownership interest in Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle). During 2006, the Company disposed of its investment in Chipotle through sales of shares and ultimately a tax-free exchange of all remaining shares held. Since McDonald’s restaurant business comprises virtually all of the Company’s consolidated operating results, this narrative primarily relates to that business, unless otherwise noted. All restaurants are operated either by the Company, by independent entrepreneurs under the terms of franchise arrangements (franchisees), or by affiliates and developmental licensees operating under license agreements. The Company’s operations are designed to assure consistency and high quality at every McDonald’s restaurant. When granting conventional franchises, the Company is selective and generally is not in the practice of franchising to or partnering with investor groups or passive investors. Under the conventional franchise arrangement, franchisees provide capital by initially investing in the equipment, signs, seating and décor of their restaurant businesses, and by reinvesting in the business over time. The Company generally shares the initial investment by owning or leasing the land and building. Franchisees contribute to the Company’s revenue stream through payment of rent and service fees based upon a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments, along with initial fees. The conventional franchise arrangement typically lasts 20 years and franchising practices are generally consistent throughout the world. Under our developmental license arrangement, licensees provide ongoing capital for the entire business, including the real estate interest. While the Company generally has no capital invested, we receive a royalty based on a percent of sales and initial fees. A discussion regarding site selection is included in Part I, Item 2, page 5 of this Form 10-K. The Company, its franchisees/licensees and affiliates purchase food, packaging, equipment and other goods from numerous independent suppliers that have been approved by the Company. The Company has established and strictly enforces high quality standards. The Company has quality assurance labs around the world to ensure that our high standards are consistently met. The quality assurance process not only involves ongoing product reviews, but also on-site inspections of suppliers’ facilities. Further, a quality assurance board, composed of the Company’s technical, safety and supply chain specialists, provides strategic global leadership for all aspects of food quality and safety. In addition, the Company works closely with suppliers to encourage innovation, assure best practices and drive continuous improvement. Independently owned and operated distribution centers, also approved by the Company, distribute products and supplies to most McDonald’s restaurants. In addition, restaurant personnel are trained in the proper storage, handling and preparation of our products and in the delivery of customer service. McDonald’s global brand is well known. Marketing, promotional and public relations activities are designed to promote McDonald’s brand image and differentiate the Company from competitors. Marketing and promotional efforts focus on value, food taste, menu choice and the customer experience. The Company believes it is important to give back to the people and communities around the world who are responsible for our success through our efforts in social responsibility. • Products McDonald’s restaurants offer a substantially uniform menu, although there may be geographic variations. In addition, McDonald’s tests new products on an ongoing basis. McDonald’s menu includes hamburgers and cheeseburgers, Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Filet-O-Fish, several chicken sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets, Chicken Selects, french fries, premium salads, shakes, McFlurry desserts, sundaes, soft serve cones, pies, cookies, soft drinks, coffee and other beverages. In addition, the restaurants sell a variety of other products during limited-time promotions. McDonald’s restaurants in the U.S. and many international markets offer a full- or limited-breakfast menu. Breakfast offerings may include Egg McMuffin, Sausage McMuffin with Egg, McGriddles, biscuit and bagel sandwiches, hotcakes and muffins. Boston Market is a home-meal replacement concept serving chicken, meatloaf, sirloin, sandwiches, soups and salads. Pret A Manger is a quick-service food concept that serves prepared and packaged cold sandwiches, soups, salads, coffees and teas, primarily during breakfast and lunch. • Intellectual property The Company owns valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information, some of which, including “McDonald’s,” “The Golden Arches Logo,” “Ronald McDonald,” “Big Mac” and other related marks, are of material importance to the Company’s business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are used or registered. Patents are of varying remaining durations. 1 Table of Contents • Seasonal operations The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. • Working capital practices Information about the Company’s working capital practices is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 in Part II, Item 7, pages 11 through 28, and the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 in Part II, Item 8, page 32 of this Form 10-K. • Customers The Company’s business is not dependent upon either a single customer or small group of customers. • Backlog Company-operated restaurants have no backlog orders. • Government contracts No material portion of the business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government. • Competition McDonald’s restaurants compete with international, national, regional and local retailers of food products. The Company competes on the basis of price, convenience and service and by offering quality food products. The Company’s competition in the broadest perspective includes restaurants, quick-service eating establishments, pizza parlors, coffee shops, street vendors, convenience food stores, delicatessens and supermarkets. In the U.S., there are approximately 550,000 restaurants that generated about $365 billion in annual sales in 2006. McDonald’s restaurant business accounts for about 2.5% of those restaurants and 7.4% of the sales. No reasonable estimate can be made of the number of competitors outside the U.S. • Research and development The Company operates a research and development facility in the U.S., two facilities in Europe and one facility in Asia. While research and development activities are important to the Company’s business, these expenditures are not material. Independent suppliers also conduct research activities that benefit the McDonald’s System, which includes franchisees and suppliers as well as the Company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures. • Environmental matters The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position or result in material capital expenditures. However, the Company cannot predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental legislation or regulations. During 2006, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated. • Number of employees The Company’s number of employees worldwide, including Company-operated restaurant employees, was approximately 465,000 as of year end. This includes employees at McDonald’s and Boston Market’s Company-operated restaurants. d. Financial information about geographic areas Financial information about geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Part II, Item 7, pages 11 through 28 and Segment and geographic information in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. e. Available information The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The Company therefore files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. Financial and other information can also be accessed on the investor section of the Company’s website at www.mcdonalds.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of financial and other information are also available free of charge by calling (630) 623-7428 or by sending a request to McDonald’s Corporation Investor Relations Service Center, Department 300, McDonald’s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. Also posted on McDonald’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of McDonald’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance Committee, the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct, the Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors. Copies of these documents are also available free of charge by calling (630) 623-7428 or by sending a request to McDonald’s Corporation Investor Relations Service Center, Department 300, McDonald’s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer, James A. Skinner, certified to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on June 6, 2006, pursuant to Section 303A.12 of the NYSE’s listing standards, that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as of that date. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of them. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for 2007. These statements use such words as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe” and “plan.” They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. By far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. We also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise, developmental license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Our plan to reduce our ownership of restaurants may be difficult to achieve for many reasons, and the change in ownership mix may not affect our results as we now expect. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate, as well as our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food “from field to front counter” presents challenges for our Brand and may adversely affect our results. These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win. We developed the Plan to Win to address the key drivers of our business and results - - people, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: • Our ability to anticipate and respond to trends or other factors that affect the informal eating out market and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, consumer food preferences, publicity about our products or operations that can drive consumer perceptions, as well as our success in planning and executing initiatives to address these trends and factors or other competitive pressures; • The success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires the trust and confidence of our customers; • Our ability to respond effectively to adverse consumer perceptions about the quick-service segment of the informal eating out market, our products or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of the food ingredients we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on McDonald’s of food-borne illnesses involving other restaurant or food companies; • The success of our plans for 2007 and beyond to improve existing products and to roll-out new products and product line extensions, as well as the impact of our competitors’ actions, including in response to our product improvements and introductions, and our ability to continue robust product development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; • Our ability to achieve an overall product mix that differentiates the McDonald’s experience and balances consumer value with margin expansion, including in markets where cost or pricing pressures may be significant; • The impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on product sales and margins and on our ability to target these efforts effectively to maintain or expand market share; • The impact of events such as public boycotts, labor strikes and commodity or other supply chain price increases that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the McDonald’s System and whose performance has a material impact on our results; • Our ability to drive improvements in our restaurants, recruit qualified restaurant personnel and motivate employees to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet their expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; • Whether our ongoing restaurant remodeling and rebuilding initiatives, which vary from year to year by market and type, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our Brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; and • Our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations. As described in Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, our plans call for a reduction in Company-operated restaurants by re-franchising them or entering into developmental license agreements. Whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following: • Our ability to identify prospective franchisees and licensees with the experience and financial resources to be effective operators of McDonald’s restaurants; • Whether there are regulatory or other constraints that restrict or prevent our ability to implement our plans or increase our costs; 3 Table of Contents • How quickly we re-franchise or enter into developmental licenses, which we expect will vary by market and could also vary significantly from period to period; • The nature and amount of contingent liabilities and other exposures we may retain in connection with re-franchising through developmental licensing arrangements, such as indemnification obligations; • The potential risks to our Brand if a franchisee or licensee fails to perform or projects a brand image inconsistent with our values, even where we retain substantial rights to remedy such a default, which will likely be more significant if an arrangement places multiple markets or a large number of restaurants under the control of a single franchisee or licensee; • Whether the period during which we plan to make these changes will be sufficient to achieve them; and • Changes in the operating or legal environment and other circumstances that cause us to delay or revise our plans to alter our ownership mix. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following: • Our ability to manage fluctuations in commodity prices, interest and foreign exchange rates and the effects of local governmental initiatives to manage through national economic conditions such as consumer spending and inflation rates; • The impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model and the trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets; • Whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites, either directly or though licensees or partners, consistent with our plans for net growth of Systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; • The effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions such as consumer spending or wage and inflation rates; • Whether the recent improvements in operating results in markets such as the U.K. and Japan will be sustained and whether we can develop effective initiatives in other underperforming markets that may be experiencing challenges such as low consumer confidence levels, slow economic growth or a highly competitive operating environment; • The nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in significant impairment charges that reduce our earnings, such as those that may occur as we change our ownership mix as described above; and • The success of our strategy in China, where we are planning significant growth, including our ability to identify and secure appropriate real estate sites and to manage the costs and profitability of our growth in light of competitive pressures and other operating conditions that may limit pricing flexibility. Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has significantly increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following: • Our ability to manage the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting regulations we face, especially in the United States where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect consumer perceptions and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to advertising to children, nutritional content or product labeling; • The impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive consumer perceptions, litigation and regulation in ways that are material to our business; • The risks and costs of McDonald’s nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences in practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and reliance on the accuracy and appropriateness of information obtained from third party suppliers; • The impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions involving consumers and shareholders, labor and employment matters or landlord liability and the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings and the possibility of settlements or judgments; • Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products or the appropriateness or accuracy of our advertising or other communications; • Disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from government actions, including price controls, limitations on the import or export of commodities we use or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors’ operations; • The risks of operating in markets, such as Brazil and China, in which there are significant uncertainties, including with respect to the application of legal requirements and the enforceability of laws and contractual obligations; • The risks associated with information security and the use of cashless payments, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, costs resulting from consumer fraud and the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments increases; and 4 Table of Contents • The impact of changes in accounting principles or practices (or related legal or regulatory interpretations or our critical accounting estimates), including changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or interpretations thereof), which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock. These factors include some over which we have no control, such as general market conditions and governmental actions or reports about economic activity that may have a market-moving impact, regardless of whether the action or activity directly relates to our business. Actions or reports by U.S. authorities are of special import since the United States is our largest segment and our principal trading market. Trading activity in our common stock (whether in the cash or derivative markets) also affects prices and volatility. In addition to reflecting investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity can include significant purchases by shareholders who may seek to affect our business strategies, as well as both sales and purchases resulting from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald’s may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Finally, our stock price can be affected not only by operating actions we take, but also by non-operating initiatives, such as our plans to reduce shares outstanding through repurchases or increases in our dividend rate. Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. Severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes), terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events (such as the potential spread of avian flu) can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels and in turn the McDonald’s System and our results and prospects in the affected markets. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 