Item 1A: Risk Factors Factors Affecting Future Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any statements contained, or incorporated by reference, in this Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. When we use the words "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "believes," "should," "could," "may," "will" and similar expressions, we are identifying forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others: our need to raise additional financing; risks related to developing Mobion® direct methanol micro fuel cells and whether we will ever successfully develop commercially viable Mobion® fuel cell systems; the potential for early termination of our agreement with Gillette and its Duracell division; our inability, or Gillette's inability, to develop Mobion® fuel cell systems or fuel refills on our planned schedule; 11 market acceptance of Mobion® fuel cell systems; risks related to our first Mobion® fuel cell product delivered in December 2004, including reliability, run time, customer acceptance and safety; our dependence on OEMs integrating Mobion® fuel cell systems into their devices; the need for current regulations to change to permit methanol to be carried onto airplanes for Mobion® fuel cell systems to achieve mass market commercialization; Fletcher's decision whether to exercise its additional investment rights and the price at which Fletcher purchases shares; risks related to the flammable nature of methanol as a fuel source; our history of losses; intense competition in the DMFC and instrumentation businesses; risks related to protection and infringement of intellectual property; the historical volatility of our stock price; general market conditions; and other factors referred to under the caption "Risk Factors" below. Except as may be required by applicable law, we do not undertake or intend to update or revise our forward-looking statements, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of new information or future events or developments. Thus, you should not assume that our silence over time means that actual events are bearing out as expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Risk Factors We may be unable to raise additional capital to complete our product development and commercialization plans and the failure to complete such development and commercialization plans will materially adversely affect our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including completion of our product development activities, our success in commercializing our Mobion® fuel cell systems and market acceptance of Mobion® fuel cells. Before we can successfully commercialize Mobion® fuel cells, we must complete a number of critical activities, and certain events must occur, including further product development; manufacturing process development; development of large-scale production capabilities; completion, refinement and management of our supply chain; completion, refinement, and management of our distribution channel; and further work on codes and standards critical to consumer acceptance, including the existence of federal regulations that permit methanol in the passenger compartment of passenger airplanes. All of this will be expensive and require significant capital resources that are well in excess of all current resources available to us. We believe that we will need to raise additional funds to achieve commercialization of Mobion® fuel cells. However, we do not know whether we will be able to secure additional funding, or funding on acceptable terms, to pursue our commercialization plans. We can raise funds in four ways: sale of certain of our Plug Power shares, sale of our Company's stock, sale of MTI Micro stock and sale of other assets. Pursuant to our amended agreement with Fletcher, they have the right to invest up to an additional $20 million in our common stock. However, there can be no assurances that Fletcher will exercise such right. If Fletcher does not exercise its additional investment rights we may be forced to increase the number of P lug Power shares sold to fund operations, or reduce spending on micro fuel cell development. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders will be reduced. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations in a manner inconsistent with our development and commercialization plans, which would materially adversely affect our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. We are dependent on continued government funding for new energy research and development and MTI Instruments product sales. The loss of such contracts and the inability to obtain additional contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition: A large portion of revenues at MTI Instruments and MTI Micro for the next several years may come from government contracts. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to secure continued government funding. The loss of such contracts and the inability to obtain additional contracts could materially adversely affect our business plans, prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may not successfully develop our new technology and the failure to do so will materially adversely affect our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: DMFCs are a new technology with many technical and engineering challenges still to be resolved. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully resolve the technical and engineering challenges 12 of DMFCs, or if we are successful, that such solutions will be commercially viable. Resolution of these technical and engineering issues requires substantial resources including financial, managerial and technical resources. We cannot assure that all the necessary resources will be available to the degree, and at the times, they are needed. If we are unable to successfully develop Mobion® fuel cells, our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Current commitments for joint development, distribution, marketing and investment by The Gillette Company (Gillette) and its Duracell division may be subject to early termination and any such early termination will have material adverse consequences on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Gillette and its Duracell division's commitments in the strategic alliance agreement and the other agreements entered into as a part of the strategic alliance transaction (including those commitments relating to joint development, distribution, marketing and investment) with MTI Micro are subject to early termination. Either MTI Micro or Gillette may terminate the strategic alliance agreement for cause at any time and at certain pre-defined periods of time, if technical milestones are not completed to the satisfaction of the other party. Gillette may also terminate the strategic alliance agreement prior to mass market commercializa tion if it decides not to establish fuel refill manufacturing capability. The investment agreement with Gillette may be terminated if the strategic alliance agreement is terminated. In addition, any future investment by Gillette is conditioned upon MTI Micro reaffirming that the representations and warranties in the investment agreement are true as of the date of such investment. These representations and warranties include statements concerning ownership of intellectual property, and affirmations that MTI Micro is not infringing on the intellectual property of others and others are not infringing on MTI Micro's intellectual property. At this time we cannot determine whether MTI Micro will be able to make these statements as of the date of any potential future investments by Gillette, and the inability to make such statements could result in Gillette terminating the investment agreement. Termination of MTI Micro's agreements with Gillette and its Duracell division would have material adverse consequences on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. MTI Micro may never complete the development of commercially acceptable Mobion® fuel cell products and may not be able to achieve profitable commercialization of its products in the military/industrial and consumer market on the timetable it anticipates, or at all, and any such delay or failure would have material adverse consequences on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: We cannot guarantee that MTI Micro will be able to develop commercially viable Mobion® fuel cell products in the military/industrial and consumer market on the timetable it anticipates, or at all. The commercialization of Mobion® fuel cell products requires substantial technological advances to improve the efficiency, functionality, reliability, cost, performance and environmental operating latitude of these systems and products and to develop commercial volume manufacturing processes for these systems a nd products. We cannot guarantee that MTI Micro will be able to develop the technology necessary for commercialization of Mobion® fuel cell products, or acquire or license the required technology from third parties. MTI Micro's failure to develop the technology necessary for high-volume commercialization of Mobion® fuel cells that are reliable, cost effective and present a value proposition to the customer will, in each case, have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A mass market for fuel cells may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Fuel cell systems represent emerging technologies, and we do not know whether consumers will adopt these technologies on a large scale or whether OEMs will incorporate these technologies into their products. In particular, if a mass market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than anticipated, for methanol portable power applications, we may be unable to recover our expenditures to develop our fuel systems and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability, any of which could negatively impact our business. Estimates for the development of a mass market for fuel cell products and systems have lengthened in recent years. Many factors that are beyond our control may have a negative effect on the development of a mass market for fuel cells and our fuel systems for methanol applications. These factors include the following: cost competitiveness and physical size of fuel cell systems and components; availability, future costs and safety of methanol, natural gas and other potential fuel cell fuels; consumer acceptance of methanol or alternative fuel products; government funding and support for the development of methanol fuel cells for portable applications; the willingness of OEMs to replace current technology; consumer perceptions of methanol systems; regulatory requirements; and emergence of newer, breakthrough power technologies and products. 13 Our cost to produce our current Mobion® fuel cell product exceeds the amount for which we can currently sell such product. If we are unable to reduce the costs of our Mobion® fuel cells, it will have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: The commercialization of MTI Micro's Mobion® fuel cell products depends upon MTI Micro's ability to significantly reduce the costs of these systems and products, since they are currently substantially more expensive than systems and products based on existing technologies, such as rechargeable batteries. The price of our fuel cell products is dependent largely on material and other manufacturing costs. We are unable to offer any assurance that either we or a contract manufacturer will be able to reduce costs to a level which will allow production of a competitive product that the consumer finds attractive or that any product produced using lower cost materials and manufacturing processes will not suffer from a reduction in performance, reliability and longevity. The production costs of our initial industrial product were higher than its sales price. We recognize that successfully implementing our strategy and obtaining a significant share of the military, industrial and consumer markets requires that we offer our direct methanol fuel cell products at competitive prices, which can only be accomplished when production costs are cut substantially from current levels. If we are unable to produce direct methanol fuel cell products at competitive prices relative to alternative technologies and products, our target market customers will be unlikely to buy our fuel cell products. The failure to achieve cost reductions may materially adversely affect MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Gillette may not be able to achieve commercialization of fuel refills on the timetable we anticipate, or at all, and the delay or failure to achieve such commercialization would have material adverse consequences on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: We cannot guarantee that Gillette will be able to, or will choose to, develop, acquire or license commercially viable fuel refills for Mobion® fuel cell products on the timetable we anticipate, or at all. The commercialization of fuel refills for Mobion® fuel cell products requires substantial technological advances to improve the efficiency, functionality, reliability, cost and performance of these systems and products and to develop commercial volume manufacturing processes for these systems and products. Gillette's failure to supply fuel refills would have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A viable market for micro fuel cell systems may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. If a market for fuel cells does not develop or is delayed, it will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Micro fuel cell systems for portable electronic devices represent an emerging market, and we do not know the extent to which our targeted distributors and resellers will want to purchase them and whether end-users will want to use them. The development of a viable market for our systems may be impacted by many factors that are out of our control, including: the cost competitiveness of other micro fuel cell systems; the future costs of materials used to build our systems; consumer reluctance to try a new product; consumer perceptions of our systems' safety; regulatory requirements; improvements in existing rechargeable battery technology; and the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. If a viable market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop our product and we may be unable to achieve profitability, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our first field test ready military application Mobion® fuel cell product could fail due to technical, customer acceptance, safety or other reasons. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans and prospects: We anticipate having field test ready military application Mobion® fuel cell products available for sale by the end of 2006. We may experience problems with the fuel cells, including reliability issues, run time, customer acceptance or safety. If the fuel cells experience failures, it could result in a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans and prospects. 14 Alternatives to our technology could render our systems obsolete prior to commercialization, which would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Our Mobion® fuel cells are one of a number of alternative portable power energy solutions being developed as replacements for batteries, including thin film batteries, extended life lithium batteries and other types of fuel cell technologies. Technological advances in existing battery technologies or other fuel cell technologies may render our micro fuel cell systems obsolete and this would materially adversely affect our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. MTI Micro is dependent upon external OEMs to purchase certain of its products and integrate Mobion® fuel cells into their products. If external OEMs do not purchase and integrate Mobion® fuel cells into their products, our market will be very limited, which could have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: To be commercially useful, certain of our Mobion® fuel cells must be integrated into products manufactured by OEMs. We cannot guarantee that OEMs will manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, that they will choose to use Mobion® fuel cells. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by OEMs could adversely affect the market for Mobion® fuel cells, which could have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In order to achieve mass commercialization of Mobion® fuel cells, customers must be able to carry methanol fuel inside the passenger compartment of commercial airlines. If current airline, Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") and certain international regulations do not change, passengers will be unable to carry non-dilute methanol in the passenger compartments of airplanes, which will have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Current airline and FAA regulations and certain international laws, regulations and treaties limit the amount and concentration of methanol that any passenger can carry aboard passenger planes. We believe that these regulations must change for mass commercialization of Mobion® fuel cell products to be possible. If pending regulatory changes are approved by ICAO, this will permit direct methanol micro fuel cells and refill cartridg es to be carried in the passenger compartment of airplanes. If these regulations do not change, it would materially adversely affect MTI Micro's ability to achieve mass commercialization of Mobion® fuel cell products and have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In connection with the 2004 private placement, we may have to (1) sell shares of our common stock at prices which result in substantial dilution to our shareholders, and (2) issue additional shares of our common stock to Fletcher at prices that may be substantially below market value at the time of issuance without any payment required by Fletcher, which would cause our shareholders to suffer additional dilution: After giving effect to the 1,261,829 shares of common stock we issued to Fletcher on December 22, 2004 (as well as all shares issued or to be potentially issued to Fletcher in connection with our failure to satisfy the registration requirement as discussed in Note 11, Shareholders' Equity), the 2004 private placement provided Fletcher additional investment rights to purchase up to an additional $20 million of our common stock at a price equal to $6.34 per share (subject to adjustment). This price has been reduced to $6.023 per share due to our failure to satisfy the registratio n requirement, and may be further reduced due to, among other things, continuing failure to satisfy such registration requirement. Any exercise of the additional investment rights could result in sales of our common stock at prices that are below the market price for our common stock at the time the investment right is exercised and could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Our agreement with Fletcher also provides that Fletcher will receive additional shares of our common stock with respect to shares it already owns, and the exercise price and term relating to unexercised additional investment rights will be adjusted to the benefit of Fletcher, each upon the occurrence of certain events or circumstances, some of which are beyond our control, including: issuances of our equity securities at a price below $7.048 per share (which is the price Fletcher paid in connection with its initial $10 million investment) or issuances of our equity securities at a price below $6.34 per share (which was the original exercise price relating to the additional investment rights); our failure to satisfy certain requirements relating to registering the resale of shares issued or issuable to Fletcher pursuant to the securities laws; a change in control of our Company; and a restatement of our financial results. In any event, 8,330,411 shares is the maximum number of shares of our common stock we may be required to issue to Fletcher, which amount includes the 1,418,842 shares issued on January 29, 2004, the 1,261,829 shares issued on December 22, 2004 and the 66,413 registration penalty shares issued on April 20, 2005. 15 In connection with the 2004 private placement, we are responsible for having the resale of shares purchased by Fletcher registered with the SEC within defined time periods and subject to penalties if the shares are not registered with the SEC within those defined time periods: Pursuant to our agreement with Fletcher, we are obligated, within ten business days after the closing of the purchase of any additional shares by Fletcher pursuant to rights issued in connection with the 2004 Private Placement, to file a registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of all such shares. We are also obligated to cause each of those registration statements to be declared effective not more than sixty (60) days after the closing of the purchase of such shares, or if the registration statement is reviewed by the SEC, not more than ninety (90) days after the closing of the purchase of such shares. If we fail to file the registration statements or become effective as set forth above, we must issue to Fletcher a number of additional shares to reflect the number of shares it would have acquired if its purchase price was based on the actual exercise price reduced by five percent for each month in which we fail to satisfy our obligations and adjust the exercise price for the additional investment rights to such lower price. In addition, such failure may result in an extension of the investment term for ea ch day we fail to satisfy our registration obligations. The Company initially filed a Registration Statement on January 6, 2005 which was within ten business days after the closing of the purchase of additional shares by Fletcher on December 22, 2004. The 90-day deadline for this Registration Statement to be declared effective was March 22, 2005. Since the Registration Statement was declared effective on April 21, 2005, we failed to meet the March 22, 2005 deadline and therefore were required to issue 66,413 additional shares of common stock to Fletcher without any payment required on its part. The sale of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market could materially decrease the market price of our common stock: The Company agreed as part of the 2004 Private Placement with Fletcher to register for resale shares of our common stock owned by Fletcher. If Fletcher exercised its remaining investment right and a substantial amount of our common stock were sold in the public market, or even targeted for sale, it could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our ability to sell common stock in the future. Current shareholders may be diluted as a result of additional financings: If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities in either the Company or MTI Micro, current shareholders' percentage ownership will be reduced. In addition, these transactions may dilute the value of common stock outstanding. Moreover, we may have to issue securities that may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our future needs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may be involved in intellectual property litigation that causes us to incur significant expenses or prevents us from selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: In recent years, hundreds of fuel cell patents have been issued worldwide. Many of these patents are broadly written and encompass basic and fundamental theories of how fuel cells should or could work. As we continue to develop our technology, our designs may infringe the patent or intellectual property rights of others. Whether our technology infringes or not, MTI Micro and our Company may become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. We may also commence lawsuits against others who we believe are infringing upon MTI Micro's rights. Involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to MTI Micro and our Com pany, adversely affecting the development of sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant or plaintiff in any such litigation, MTI Micro and the Company may, among other things, be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of products that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot guarantee that MTI Micro or the Company would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such license would be available upon reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 16 MTI Micro's products use potentially dangerous, flammable fuels, which could subject its business and the Company to product liability claims. Any such lawsuits or claims could have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: The sale of Mobion® fuel cells exposes MTI Micro and the Company to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the methanol and products that use methanol industry. Methanol is flammable and therefore potentially dangerous. Any accidents involving MTI Micro's products or other methanol-based products could materially impede widespread market acceptance and demand for DMFCs which could have a material adverse effect on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans and prospects. In addition, MTI Micro may be held responsible for damages beyond the scope of its insurance coverage. We also cannot predict whether MTI Micro will be able to maintain its insurance coverage on acceptable terms. Damages beyond the scope of MTI Micro's insurance coverage or the inability to maintain insurance coverage on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on MTI Micro's and the Company's business plans, prospect s, results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred losses and anticipate continued losses. If we do not become profitable and sustain profitability, it will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $81.718 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our net loss was $15.094 million, which includes a net gain of $10.125 million from sales of securities available for sale and a loss of $10.407 million from derivative valuations and an operating loss of $15.098 million. We expect to continue incurring net losses from operations until we can produce sufficient revenues to cover costs. In order to achieve profitability, we must successfully achieve all or some combination of the following: develop new products for existing markets; sell these products to existing and new customers; increase gross margins through higher volumes and manufacturing efficiencies; control operating expenses; and develop and manage distribution capability. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until we can produce and sell our fuel cell systems on a large-scale and cost-effective basis. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. Failure to do so will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our competitors may develop a more cost effective, better product and bring that product to market faster than we can. If we do not create a competitive DMFC product or we are late to market, it will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: There are a number of other companies developing DMFCs. Some of our competitors may have better access to resources and capital than we do. Some of our competitors are much larger and have better access to manufacturing capacity, supply chains and distribution channels than we do. Some of our competitors may resolve technical or engineering issues before we do. Accordingly, one or more of our competitors may bring a mass commercial product to market before we do. In addition, one or more of our competitors may make a better or more cost effective product than we can make. Failure to get to market with the best and most cost competitive DMFC product before our competitors would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We have limited experience manufacturing fuel cell systems on a commercial basis. If we do not achieve the necessary manufacturing capabilities, it will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: To date, we have focused primarily on research and development and have limited experience manufacturing micro fuel cell systems on a commercial basis. We plan to manufacture our fuel cell products through third-party contract manufacturers. We can offer no assurance that either we, our contract manufacturers or any other party we partner with to volume-produce our products will develop efficient, automated, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards or production volumes required to successfully mass market our fuel cell products. Even if we or our contract manufacturers are successful in developing such manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we or they will be timely in meeting our product commercialization schedule or the production and delivery requirements of potential customers. Failure to develop or procure such manufacturing capabilities will have a material adverse effect on the Company's business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to establish additional strategic relationships that we will need to complete our product development and commercialization plans. If we are unable to develop necessary strategic relationships on terms that are acceptable to us, it will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: We believe that we will need to enter into additional strategic relationships in order to complete our current product development and commercialization plans on schedule. If we are unable to identify or enter into a satisfactory agreement with potential partners, we may not be able to 17 complete our product development and commercialization plans on schedule or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may also need to scale back these plans in the absence of a partner, which would materially adversely affect our future business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any arrangement with a strategic partner may require us to issue a material amount of equity securities to the partner or commit significant financial resources to fund our product development efforts in exchange for their assistance or the contribution to us of intellectual property. Any such issuance of equity securities would reduce the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders, which would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We will rely on our partners to develop and provide components for our Mobion® fuel cell systems. If our partners do not meet our quality, quantity, reliability or schedule requirements, it will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: We depend on third parties to supply many of the components of our Mobion® fuel cell systems. A supplier's failure to develop and supply components in a timely manner, or to develop or supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, would harm our ability to manufacture our fuel cell systems. In addition, to the extent that our supply partners use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components fr om alternative sources. Failure to do so will have a material adverse effect on our business plan, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, platinum is a key material in our micro fuel cells. Platinum is a scarce natural resource and we are depending upon a sufficient supply of this commodity. While we do not anticipate significant near or long-term shortages in the supply of platinum, any such shortages would adversely affect our ability to produce commercially viable fuel cell systems or significantly raise our cost of producing our fuel cell systems. Our inability to deliver a commercially viable Mobion® fuel cell on time, or at all, will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: We anticipate having field test ready military application Mobion® fuel cell product available for sale by the end of 2006. There may be technical or engineering challenges we have not anticipated, issues of reliability for our device, an inability for our device to be integrated into existing electronic devices, difficulties in obtaining materials or components, or problems with manufacturing or distribution, and many other problems that we have not, and perhaps could not anticipate. All of these issues could delay or prohibit further releases of additional Mobion® fuel cell products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to achieve future product development and the timing associated with entry into the military, industrial or consumer market or commercialization milestones will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: We have established aggressive product development and commercialization milestones and dates for achieving development goals related to technology and design improvements. We use these milestones to assess our progress toward developing commercially viable fuel cell systems. Delays in our product development will likely have a material impact on our commercialization schedule. If we experience delays in meeting our development goals or if our micro fuel cell systems exhibit technical defects or if we are unable to meet cost, performance or manufacturing goals, including power output, useful life and reliability, our commercialization schedule will be delayed. In this event, potential purchasers of our initial comme rcial systems may choose alternative technologies and any delays could allow potential competitors to gain market advantages. We cannot assure that we will successfully achieve our milestones in the future and the failure to achieve such milestones would have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our resources available to fund operations may fluctuate as the value of Plug Power's share price fluctuates. Such price fluctuations could result in our requiring additional funding sooner than anticipated: A primary asset of the Company is the shares of Plug Power common stock it owns. As of December 31, 2005, the Company owned 3,693,436 shares of common stock in Plug Power, which is a publicly traded company. The market price of the Plug Power common stock may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which the Company has no control. Fluctuations in the market price of Plug Power's common stock may result in a reduction of resources available to fund operations which could result in our requiring additional funding sooner than anticipated. If we are not successful in protecting our patents and intellectual property, it will have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Patent and trade secret rights are of material importance to us. No assurance can be given as to the issuance of patents or, if so issued, as to their scope. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe patents owned by us it would be costly to pursue an enforcement action and would divert funds and resources which otherwise could be used in operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that an enforcement action would be successful. 18 In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on treatment of our technology as trade secrets and upon confidentiality agreements. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our inability to obtain patents, as well as to protect and enforce any patents that are issued as well as trade secrets, could have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability or failure to manage change effectively may have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: We continue to undergo rapid change in the scope and breadth of our operations as we advance the development of our micro fuel cell products. Such rapid change is likely to place a significant strain on our senior management team and other resources. We will be required to make significant investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and management information systems and to motivate and effectively manage our employees. Our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by such a rapid change. Our share price could be subject to extreme price fluctuations, and shareholders could have difficulty trading shares: The markets for high technology companies in particular have been volatile, and the market price of our common stock, which is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol MKTY, has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. Fluctuations could be in response to operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, or by our competitors, patent or proprietary rights developments, and market conditions for high technology stocks in general. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the ability of shareholders to dispose of o ur common stock. General economic conditions may affect investors' expectations regarding our financial performance and adversely affect our stock price, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Certain industries in which we sell and intend to sell products, such as the energy and semiconductor industries are highly cyclical. In the future, our results may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations as a consequence of the industry patterns of our customers, general or regional economic conditions, and other factors. These factors may also have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of key employees may have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition: Our success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified scientists and engineers, as well as highly skilled and experienced management, sales and technical personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating or retaining key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon a number of key employees, including members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of these senior executives or key employees, or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel, could delay product development cycles or otherwise harm our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 