Item 1A: Risk Factors Factors Affecting Future Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Any statements contained, or incorporated by reference, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. When we use the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plans,” “projects,” “continuing,” “ongoing,” “expects,” “management believes,” “we believe,” “we intend,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will” and similar words or phrases, we are identifying forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: anticipated growth in revenues and cashflows; management’s belief that it will have adequate resources to fund the Company’s operations and capital expenditures over at least the next twelve months; anticipated levels of future earnings and continued positive cash flow; the expectation that further cost-cutting measures will be avoided; future capital expenditures and spending on research and development; needing to hire additional personnel and purchase equipment; expected funding of future cash expenditures; projected inventory reductions; and the impact of pending legal proceedings. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause these differences include the following: statements with respect to management’s strategy and planned initiatives; sales revenue growth of our MTI Instruments business may not be achieved or maintained; the dependence of our MTI Instruments business on a small number of customers and potential loss of government contracts - particularly in light of expected defense department spending reductions resulting from the sequestration implemented in 2013 or cuts that may be imposed as a result of ongoing Congressional budget negotiations; our lack of long-term purchase commitments from our customers and the ability of our customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders for our products; our inability to build and maintain relationships with our customers; our inability to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers; the cyclical nature of the electronics and military industries; the uncertainty of the U.S. and global economy; the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations; failure of our strategic alliances to achieve their objectives or perform as contemplated and the risk of cancellation or early termination of such alliance by either party; the loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel; risks related to protection and infringement of intellectual property; our occasional dependence on sole suppliers or a limited group of suppliers for MTI Instruments’ business; our ability to generate income to realize the tax benefit of our historical net operating losses; risks related to the limitation of the use, for tax purposes, of our net historical operating losses in the event of certain ownership changes; and other risks discussed below. Except as may be required by applicable law, we do not undertake or intend to update or revise our forward-looking statements, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of new information or future events or developments. Thus, assumptions should not be made that our silence over time means that actual events are bearing out as expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. 7 Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in the heading “Factors Affecting Future Results” above. Any of the following events, should they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. In order to achieve profitability and improve liquidity, we must successfully achieve all or some combination of the following initiatives: increasing sales, developing new products, controlling operating expenses, managing our cash flows, achieving our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from prior cost reduction initiatives, improving operational efficiency and estimating and projecting accurately our liquidity and capital resources. In Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management’s Plan, Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we made estimates regarding our cash flow, results of operations and ability to access our existing line of credit at MTI Instruments for the year ending December 31, 2014. If our cash flow, results of operations or ability to borrow under our line of credit are less favorable than we have estimated, we may not be able to make all of our planned operating or capital expenditures or fully execute all of our other plans. Our financial success depends in part on management’s ability to execute our growth strategy. We expect that we will depend primarily on cash generated by our operations for funds to pay our expenses and any amounts due under our credit facility and any other indebtedness we may incur. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to sell assets or borrow money, in each case on terms that may not be acceptable to us. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our existing line of credit, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. In addition, any significant levels of indebtedness in the future could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have access to additional resources or proportionately less debt and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. Any future loss incurred by the Company could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to generate the cash needed to operate our business. Even though we achieved profitability during 2013, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. Failure to continue to implement these initiatives successfully, or the failure of such initiatives to result in improved profitability, could have a material adverse effect on our business plans, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition and may result in a further downsize to the business. We currently derive all of our product revenue from our MTI Instruments business. All of our revenue is currently derived from our MTI Instruments business. We do not have a broad portfolio of other products we could rely on to support operations if we were to experience a substantial slowdown in our MTI Instruments business, which is subject to a number of risks, including: dependence on a small number of customers; a continued slow down or cancellation of sales to the military as a result of a potential redeployment, or sequestration, of governmental funding; our ability to maintain, improve, or expand its direct and indirect channels of distribution; the potential failure to expand or maintain the business as a result of competition, a lack of brand awareness, or market saturation; and an inability to launch new products as a result of intense competition, uncertainty of new technology development, or limited or unavailable resources to fund development. In addition, revenues from the sale of MTI Instruments’ products can vary significantly from one period to the next. We may sell a significant amount of our products to one or a few customers for various short term projects in one period, and then have markedly decreased sales in following periods as these projects end or customers have the products they require for the foreseeable future. This scenario played out in 2012, when MTI Instruments experienced a significant decline compared to the prior year. The fact that we sell a significant amount of our products to a relatively few number of customers also results in a customer concentration risk. The loss of any significant portion of such customers or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, our business and our ability to generate the cash needed to operate our business. Variability of customer requirements resulting in cancellations, reductions, or delays may adversely affect our operating results. We are required to provide rapid product turnaround and respond to short lead times. A variety of conditions, both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for OEMs’ products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if our customers unexpectedly and significantly increase product orders, we may be required to rapidly increase production, which could strain our resources and reduce our margins. 8 If we do not keep pace with technological innovations, our products may not be competitive and our revenue and operating results may suffer. The electronic, semiconductor, solar, automotive and general industrial segments are subject to constant technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond appropriately to changing technologies and changes in product function and quality. If we rely on products and technologies that are not attractive to end users, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining market share. Technological advances, the introduction of new products, and new design techniques could adversely affect our business prospects unless we are able to adapt to the changing conditions. Technological advances could render our products obsolete, and we may not be able to respond effectively to the technological requirements of evolving markets. As a result, we will be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to: continue research and development activities on all product lines; hire additional engineering and other technical personnel; and purchase advanced design tools and test equipment. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers, or our competitors do so more effectively than we do. We may not be able to enhance our product solutions and develop new product solutions in a timely manner. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to provide new products that compare favorably with alternative solutions on the basis of time to introduction, cost, performance, and end-user preferences. Our success in attracting and retaining customers and developing business will depend on various factors, including the following: innovative development of new products for customers; utilization of advances in technology; maintenance of quality standards; efficient and cost-effective solutions; and timely completion of the design and introduction of new products. Our inability to develop new product solutions on a timely basis could harm our operating results and impede our growth. Our efforts to develop new technologies may not result in commercial success and/or may result in delays in development, which could cause a decline in our revenue and could harm our business. Our research and development efforts with respect to our technologies may not result in customer or market acceptance. Some or all of those technologies may not successfully make the transition from the research and development lab to cost-effective production as a result of technology problems, competitive cost issues, yield problems, and other factors. Even when we successfully complete a research and development effort with respect to a particular technology, our customers may decide not to introduce or may discontinue products utilizing the technology for a variety of reasons, including the following: difficulties with other suppliers of components for the products; superior technologies developed by our competitors and unfavorable comparisons of our solutions with these technologies; price considerations; and lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products. The nature of our business will require us to make continuing investments for new technologies. Significant expenses relating to one or more new technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. If our efforts are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. The electronics and military industries are cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our operating results. The electronics and military industries have experienced significant economic downturns at various times. These downturns are characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and production overcapacity. We may seek to reduce our exposure to industry downturns by providing design and production services for leading companies in rapidly expanding industry segments. We may, however, experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. 9 Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments, other factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include: the cyclicality of the markets we serve; the timing and size of orders; the volume of orders relative to our capacity; product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; evolution in the life cycles of our customers’ products; timing of expenses in anticipation of future orders; changes in product mix; availability of manufacturing and assembly services; changes in cost and availability of labor and components; timely delivery of product solutions to customers; pricing and availability of competitive products; introduction of new technologies into the markets we serve; pressures on reducing selling prices; our success in serving new markets; and changes in economic conditions. International sales risks could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. Having a worldwide distribution network for our products exposes us to various economic, political, and other risks that could adversely affect our operations and operating results, including the following: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; timing to meet regulatory requirements; tariffs, duties and other trade barrier restrictions; greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; and political or economic instability in certain parts of the world. The risks associated with international sales could negatively affect our operating results. We transact our business in U.S. dollars and bill and collect our sales in U.S. dollars. In 2013, approximately 34.6% of our revenue was from customers outside of the United States. A weakening of the dollar could cause our overseas vendors to require renegotiation of either the prices or currency we pay for their goods and services. Similarly, a strengthening of the dollar could cause our products to be more expensive for our international customers, which could impact price and margins and/or cause the demand for our products, and thus our revenue, to decline. In the future, customers may negotiate pricing and make payments in non-U.S. currencies. If our overseas vendors or customers require us to transact business in non-U.S. currencies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods, operating expenses, and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact that future exchange rate fluctuations may have on our operating results. Continuing uncertainty of the U.S. and global economy may have serious implications for the growth and stability of our business. Revenue growth and continued profitability of our business will depend significantly on the overall demand for test and measurement instrumentations in key markets including research and development, automotive, semiconductor and electronics. Softening demand in these markets caused by ongoing economic uncertainty, technological developments, competitive changes or other factors may result in decreased revenue or earnings levels. The U.S. and global economy has been historically cyclical and market conditions continue to be challenging, which has resulted in individuals and companies delaying or reducing expenditures. Further delays or reductions in spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, stock price, and ability to continue to operate. 10 We depend on key personnel who would be difficult to replace, and our business will likely be harmed if we lose their services or cannot hire additional qualified personnel. Our success depends substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and key personnel. The competition for qualified management and key personnel, especially engineers, is intense. Although we maintain non-competition and non-disclosure covenants with most of our key personnel, we do not have employment agreements with most of them. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel, especially engineers, technical support personnel, and capable sales and customer-support employees outside the United States, could delay the development and sale of our products, disrupt our business, and interfere with our ability to execute our business plan. We may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from selling our products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. We may receive notices from third parties that the manufacture, use, or sale of any products we develop infringes upon one or more claims of their patents. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect our business. Third parties could also assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our future product offerings, if any. We cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of any third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages, and our inability to manufacture, market, or sell any of our product offerings that are found to infringe. Even if we were to prevail in any such action, the litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business. If a court determined, or if we independently discovered, that our product offerings violated third-party proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we would be able to re-engineer our product offerings to avoid those rights or obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prohibited from selling products that are found to infringe upon the rights of others. Even if obtaining a license were feasible, it may be costly and time-consuming. A court could also enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily, or permanently enjoin us from making, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing our products that are found to infringe on third parties’ intellectual property rights, or could enter orders mandating that we undertake certain remedial actions. Further, a court could order us to pay compensatory damages for any such infringement, plus prejudgment interest, and could in addition treble the compensatory damages and award attorneys’ fees. Any such payments could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information, which could limit our ability to compete. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology and processes. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties confidential information developed by the party under such agreements or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. However, these agreements may not be honored and enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Our failure to obtain and maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We experienced an ownership change in MTI Micro that resulted in a limitation of tax attributes relating to the use of their net operating losses, and we may experience further ownership changes in MTI which would result in a further limitation of the use of our net operating losses. We estimate that as of December 31, 2013, the Company and MTI Instruments have net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $51.9 million and MTI Micro has NOL carryforwards of approximately $16.8 million. As a result of the conversion of the bridge notes in December 2009, MTI no longer maintained an 80% or greater ownership in MTI Micro. Thus, MTI Micro was no longer included in Mechanical Technology, Incorporated and Subsidiaries' consolidated federal and combined New York State tax returns, effective December 9, 2009. Pursuant to the Internal Revenue Service's consolidated tax return regulations (IRS Regulation Section 1.1502-36), upon MTI Micro leaving the Mechanical Technology, Incorporated and Subsidiaries’ consolidated group, MTI elected to reduce a portion of its stock tax basis in MTI Micro by "reattributing" a portion of MTI Micro's NOL carryforwards to MTI, for an amount equivalent to its built-in loss amount in MTI's investment in MTI Micro's stock. As the result of MTI making this election with its December 31, 2009 tax return, MTI reattributed approximately $45.2 million of MTI Micro's NOLs (reducing its tax basis in MTI Micro's stock by the same amount), leaving MTI Micro with approximately $13 million of separate company NOL carryforwards at the time of conversion of the Bridge Notes. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the ownership of its stock, by value, changes by more than 50 percentage points over any three-year testing period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses. 11 Our ability to utilize the MTI NOL carryforwards, including any future NOL carryforwards that may arise, may be limited by Section 382 if we undergo any further “ownership changes” as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our outstanding common stock pursuant to the exercise of MTI options outstanding, additional financings obtained, or otherwise. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 