Item 1A: Risk Factors Factors Affecting Future Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents we have filed with the SEC that are incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Any statements contained, or incorporated by reference, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. When we use the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plans,” “projects,” “continuing,” “ongoing,” “expects,” “management believes,” “we believe,” “we intend,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will” and similar words or phrases, we are identifying forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others: sales revenue growth of our test and measurement instrumentation business may not be achieved or maintained; the dependence of our test and measurement instrumentation business on a small number of customers and potential loss of government contracts; our inability to build and maintain relationships with our customers; our lack of long-term purchase commitments from our customers and the ability of our customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders for our products; risks related to protection and infringement of intellectual property; our inability to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers; intense competition in the instrumentation business; our history of recurring net losses and the risk of continued net losses; the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations; the uncertainty of the U.S. economy; the historical volatility of our stock price; the cyclical nature of the electronics industry; failure of our strategic alliances to achieve their objectives or perform as contemplated and the risk of cancellation or early termination of such alliance by either party; product liability or defects; the loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel; significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations; our dependence on sole suppliers or a limited group of suppliers for both business segments; our ability to generate income to realize our net operating losses risks related to the limitation of the use of our net operating losses in the event of certain ownership changes; and MTI Micro’s need to raise additional financing; our ownership position in MTI Micro may be reduced further as a result of our need to seek external financing for MTI Micro’s operations; risks related to developing Mobion® direct methanol fuel cells and whether MTI Micro will ever successfully develop reliable and commercially viable Mobion® fuel cell solutions; MTI Micro’s dependence on OEMs integrating Mobion® fuel cell systems into their devices; and other factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” below. Except as may be required by applicable law, we do not undertake or intend to update or revise our forward-looking statements, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of new information or future events or developments. Thus, assumptions should not be made that our silence over time means that actual events are bearing out as expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Also refer to the heading “Factors Affecting Future Results” above. We currently derive all of our product revenue from our test and measurement instrumentation business. Our test and measurement instrumentation business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: cancellation of sales from the military as a result of a potential redeployment of governmental funding; the company may not be able to maintain, improve, or expand its direct and indirect channels of distribution; 12 a failure to expand or maintain the business as a result of competition, a lack of brand awareness, or market saturation; and an inability to launch new products as a result of intensive competition, uncertainty of new technology development, and developmental timelines. In addition, our test and measurement instrumentation products can be sold in quantity to a relatively few number of customers, resulting in a customer concentration risk. The loss of any significant portion of such customers or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since we have suspended operations for MTI Micro due to lack of funding, all of our corporate costs must be funded by the test and measurement instrumentation business. Variability of customer requirements resulting in cancellations, reductions, or delays may adversely affect our operating results. We are required to provide rapid product turnaround and respond to short lead times. A variety of conditions, both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for OEMs’ products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers could adversely affect our operating results. Customers may require rapid increases in production, which could strain our resources and reduce our margins. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors and other third parties could produce products based on our intellectual property, which would substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark law and license agreements, as well as nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on these inventions. In addition, we cannot be sure that any of our pending patent applications will issue. The United States Patent and Trademark Office or other foreign patent and trademark offices may deny or significantly narrow claims made under our patent applications and, even if issued, these patents may be successfully challenged, designed around, or may otherwise not provide us with any commercial protection. We may in the future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. Regardless of the final outcome, any litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, or trademarks could be highly unpredictable and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, or are invalid or unenforceable, and could award attorneys’ fees to the other party. We may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from selling our products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. We may receive notices from third parties that the manufacture, use, or sale of any products we develop infringes upon one or more claims of their patents. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect our business. Third parties could also assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our future product offerings, if any. Whether or not such claims are valid, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages, and our inability to manufacture, market, or sell any of our product offerings that are found to infringe. Even if we were to prevail in any such action, the litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business. If a court determined, or if we independently discovered, that our product offerings violated third-party proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we would be able to re-engineer our product offerings to avoid those rights or obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prohibited from selling products that are found to infringe upon the rights of others. Even if obtaining a license were feasible, it may be costly and time-consuming. A court could also enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily, or permanently enjoin us from making, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing our portable power source products, or could enter orders mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Further, a court could order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest, and could in addition treble the compensatory damages and award attorneys’ fees. These damages could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information, which could limit our ability to compete. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology and processes. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. However, these agreements may not be honored and enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. The failure to obtain and maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. 13 Our efforts to develop new technologies may not result in commercial success, which could cause a decline in our revenue and could harm our business. Our research and development efforts with respect to our technologies may not result in customer or market acceptance. Some or all of those technologies may not successfully make the transition from the research and development lab to cost-effective production as a result of technology problems, competitive cost issues, yield problems, and other factors. Even when we successfully complete a research and development effort with respect to a particular technology, our customers may decide not to introduce or may terminate products utilizing the technology for a variety of reasons, including the following: difficulties with other suppliers of components for the products; superior technologies developed by our competitors and unfavorable comparisons of our solutions with these technologies; price considerations; and lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products. The nature of our business will require us to make continuing investments for new technologies. Significant expenses relating to one or more new technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. If our efforts are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. We may not be able to enhance our product solutions and develop new product solutions in a timely manner. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to provide new products that compare favorably with alternative solutions on the basis of time to introduction, cost, performance, and end-user preferences. Our success in attracting and maintaining customers and developing business will depend on various factors, including the following: innovative development of new products for customers; utilization of advances in technology; maintenance of quality standards; efficient and cost-effective solutions; and timely completion of the design and introduction of new products. Our inability to develop new product solutions on a timely basis could harm our operating results and impede our growth. If we do not keep pace with technological innovations, our products may not be competitive and our revenue and operating results may suffer. The electronic, semiconductor, solar, automotive and general instrumentation industries are subject to constant technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond appropriately to changing technologies and changes in product function and quality. If we rely on products and technologies that are not attractive to end users, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining significant market share. Technological advances, the introduction of new products, and new design techniques could adversely affect our business prospects unless we are able to adapt to the changing conditions. Technological advances could render our products obsolete, and we may not be able to respond effectively to the technological requirements of evolving markets. As a result, we will be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to: continue research and development activities on all product lines; hire additional engineering and other technical personnel; and purchase advanced design tools and test equipment. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers, or our competitors do so more effectively than we do. 14 International sales risks could adversely affect our operating results. Having a worldwide distribution network for our products exposes us to various economic, political, and other risks that could adversely affect our operations and operating results, including the following: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; tariffs and duties and other trade barrier restrictions; greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; and political or economic instability in certain parts of the world. The risks associated with international sales could negatively affect our operating results. Historically, we have incurred net losses as a result of MTI Micro. Despite the suspension of MTI Micro’s operations in late 2011, there can be no assurance that there will be adequate resources to fund our future operations. Prior to 2011, when we generated net income of $2.4 million primarily attributable to the reversal of a portion of the deferred tax asset’s valuation reserve of $1.5 million, representing the portion of the Company’s deferred tax asset that management has estimated is more likely than not to be realized and MTI Instrument’s strong performance, we had incurred recurring net losses, including net losses of $1.8 million in 2010, and $3.1 million in 2009. As a result of historic operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $120.1 million as of December 31, 2011. MTI Micro suspended its operations at the end of 2011 and, therefore, expects to incur minimal ongoing operating expenses unless additional funding becomes available to fund its operations in the future. If MTI Micro is unable to secure additional financing, MTI Micro could be forced to sell assets at unfavorable prices; or merge, consolidate, or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us. Since the Company no longer expects to fund MTI Micro, MTI Micro has sought and will continue to seek other sources of funding, but there is no assurance that such funding will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. We transact our business in U.S. dollars and bill and collect our sales in U.S. dollars. In 2011, approximately 33.3% of our revenue was from customers outside of the United States. A weakening of the dollar could cause our overseas vendors to require renegotiation of either the prices or currency we pay for their goods and services. Similarly, a strengthening of the dollar could cause our products to be more expensive for our international customers, which could cause the demand for our products and our revenue to decline. In the future, customers may negotiate pricing and make payments in non-U.S. currencies. If our overseas vendors or customers require us to transact business in non-U.S. currencies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods, operating expenses, and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. Continuing uncertainty of the U.S. economy may have serious implications for the growth and stability of our business and may negatively affect our stock price. The revenue growth and profitability of our business will depend significantly on the overall demand for test and measurement instrumentations as well as electronic devices. Softening demand in these markets caused by ongoing economic uncertainty may result in decreased revenue or earnings levels. The U.S. economy has been historically cyclical and market conditions continue to be challenging, which has resulted in individuals and companies delaying or reducing expenditures. Further delays or reductions in spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, stock price, and ability to continue to operate. Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, which has adversely affected the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock. In April 2009, we voluntarily delisted our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market to reduce expenses and to avoid a likely involuntary delisting for failure to comply with the continued listing requirements. Our common stock subsequently began trading on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “MKTY PK.” As a result of the delisting, the liquidity in our stock has decreased, which adversely affected the price of our stock, which may make it more difficult for you to trade in our stock. The electronics industry is cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our operating results. The electronics industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times. These downturns are characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and production overcapacity. In addition, the electronics industry is cyclical in nature. We will seek to reduce our exposure to industry downturns and cyclicality by providing design and production services for leading companies in rapidly expanding industry segments. We may, however, experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. 15 Our strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and their failure to do so could impede our growth. We plan to explore additional strategic alliances designed to enhance or complement our technology or to work in conjunction with our technology; to provide necessary know-how, components, or supplies; and to develop, introduce, and distribute products utilizing our technology. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, may be cancelled by either party and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of our current alliances or our inability to form additional alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets. We depend on key personnel who would be difficult to replace, and our business will likely be harmed if we lose their services or cannot hire additional qualified personnel. Our success depends substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and key personnel. The competition for qualified management and key personnel, especially engineers, is intense. Although we maintain non-competition and non-disclosure covenants with most of our key personnel, we do not have employment agreements with most of them. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel, especially engineers, technical support personnel, and capable sales and customer-support employees outside the United States, could delay the development and sale of our products, disrupt our business, and interfere with our ability to execute our business plan. Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments, other factors will contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: the cyclicality of the markets we serve; the timing and size of orders; the volume of orders relative to our capacity; product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; evolution in the life cycles of our customers’ products; timing of expenses in anticipation of future orders; changes in product mix; availability of manufacturing and assembly services; changes in cost and availability of labor and components; timely delivery of product solutions to customers; pricing and availability of competitive products; introduction of new technologies into the markets we serve; pressures on reducing selling prices; our success in serving new markets; and changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indicator of our future performance. Negative or unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results may result in a decline in the price of our stock. We have experienced an ownership change in MTI Micro that has resulted in a limitation of the use of their net operating losses, and we may experience further ownership changes in both MTI and MTI Micro which would result in a further limitation of the use of our net operating losses. As of December 31, 2011, it is estimated that MTI has net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $50.4 million and MTI Micro has NOL carryforwards of approximately $16.5 million. As a result of the conversion of the bridge notes in December 2009, MTI no longer maintained an 80% or greater ownership in MTI Micro. Thus, MTI Micro is no longer included in Mechanical Technology, Incorporated and Subsidiaries' consolidated federal and combined New York State tax returns, effective December 9, 2009. Pursuant to the Internal Revenue Service's consolidated tax return regulations (IRS Regulation Section 1.1502-36), upon MTI Micro leaving the Mechanical Technology, Incorporated and Subsidiaries’ consolidated group, MTI elected to reduce a portion of its stock tax basis in MTI Micro by "reattributing" a portion of MTI Micro's NOL carryforwards to MTI, for an amount equivalent to its built-in loss amount in MTI's investment in MTI Micro's stock. As the result of MTI making this election with its December 31, 2009 tax return, MTI reattributed approximately $45.2 million of MTI Micro's NOLs (reducing its tax basis in MTI Micro's stock by the same amount), leaving MTI Micro with approximately $13 million of separate company NOL carryforwards at the time of conversion of the Bridge Notes. The Company and its subsidiaries have undergone a formal Section 382 study. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the ownership of its stock, by value, changes by more than 50 percentage points over any three-year testing period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses. As a result of MTI Micro’s issuance of stock between 2009 and 2011, MTI Micro has experienced a Section 382 ownership change, which has reduced their NOLs by an estimated $14.6 million. 16 Our ability to utilize the MTI and remaining MTI Micro NOL carryforwards, including any future NOL carryforwards that may arise, may be limited by Section 382, if we or MTI Micro undergo any further “ownership changes” as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our outstanding common stock pursuant to the exercise of the MTI Micro warrants, MTI or MTI Micro options outstanding, additional financings obtained, or otherwise. Our ownership position in MTI Micro has been reduced as a result of external financing for MTI Micro's operations, which could limit our ability to control the operations. As of December 31, 2011, we owned approximately 47.6% of MTI Micro’s Common Stock issued. Between September 2008 and September 2011, MTI Micro entered into numerous debt and equity financings with third parties, primarily, Dr. Walter L. Robb, a member of the Company’s and MTI Micro’s boards of directors, and Counter Point Ventures Fund II, LP (Counter Point). Counter Point is a venture capital fund sponsored and managed by Dr. Robb. After these series of transactions, MTI now holds an aggregate of approximately 47.6% of the outstanding common stock of MTI Micro or 53.3% of the outstanding common stock and warrants issued of MTI Micro, and Dr. Robb and Counter Point hold approximately 5.1% and 45.2%, respectively of the outstanding common stock of MTI Micro or 4.3% and 40.3%, respectively of the outstanding common stock and warrants issued of MTI Micro. Since no entity of the related parties has power but, as a group, the Company and its related parties have the power, then the party within the related party group that is most closely associated with the VIE, MTI Micro, is the primary beneficiary. Even though Dr. Robb and Counterpoint combined control a majority of the outstanding common stock, and they have the ability to elect the directors of MTI Micro and decide whether to continue to seek business opportunities for MTI Micro or instead seek opportunities to sell the intellectual property, they have not elected to do so. The Company continues to oversee the day to day operations, exercise management decision making, seek opportunities to sell intellectual properties, and have a vested interest in the commercialization of MTI Micro’s fuel cell technology. Since inception in 2001, the Company has made the largest investment and been the principal funder of MTI Micro. The Company has also been exposed to losses and has the ability to benefit from MTI Micro. Considering the facts and circumstances, management believes the Company is most closely associated with the VIE, MTI Micro, and therefore, it is the primary beneficiary of MTI Micro. Should there be a change in the facts and circumstances (such as a change in governance or a change to the related party group) management will reassess whether they act as the primary beneficiary and should continue to include MTI Micro in the Company’s consolidated results of operations. MTI Micro currently does not have sufficient funds to commercialize its portable power source products. In order to resume operations and continue full commercialization of its micro fuel cell solution, MTI Micro will need to do one or more of the following to raise additional resources, or reduce its cash requirements: obtain additional government grants or private funding of its direct methanol fuel cell research, development, manufacturing readiness and commercialization; receive a purchase order from government agencies or OEM’s MTI Micro is currently with; or secure additional debt or equity financing. There is no guarantee that resources will be available to MTI Micro on terms acceptable to it, or at all, or that such resources will be received in a timely manner, if at all, or that MTI Micro will be able to resume operations or reduce its expenditure run-rate further. MTI Micro had cash and cash equivalents of $110 thousand as of December 31, 2011. Since 2008, MTI Micro has raised $5.4 million in external debt and equity financing. At the end of 2011, MTI Micro suspended its operations while additional necessary funding is being pursued. If MTI Micro raises additional funds by issuing equity securities, MTI Micro’s stockholders, including MTI, will experience further dilution. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. There is no assurance that funds raised in any future debt financing or additional equity financing arrangements will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms favorable to MTI Micro or to existing stockholders and at such times as required, or that MTI Micro will be able to obtain the additional financing required to resume the operation of its business. If MTI Micro raises additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to MTI Micro’s technologies or its products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to MTI Micro. If MTI Micro is unable to secure additional financing, MTI Micro could be forced to sell assets at unfavorable prices; or merge, consolidate, or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us. 17 MTI Micro’s portable power source products may not be accepted by the market. Any portable power source products that MTI Micro develops may not achieve market acceptance. The development of a successful market for MTI Micro’s proposed portable power source products and the ability to sell those products at favorable prices may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond MTI Micro’s control, including the following: MTI Micro’s failure to produce portable power source products that compete favorably against other products on the basis of price, quality, performance, and life; competition from conventional lithium-ion or other rechargeable battery systems; the ability of MTI Micro’s technologies and product solutions to address the needs of the electronic device markets, the requirements of OEMs, and the preferences of end users; MTI Micro’s ability to provide OEMs with portable power source products that provide advantages in terms of size, weight, peak power, power duration, reliability, durability, performance, and value-added features compared to alternative solutions; and MTI Micro’s failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with OEMs, manufacturers, distributors, and others as well as strategic partners. Target markets for MTI Micro’s proposed portable power source products, such as those for mobile phones (including smart phones) and mobile phone accessories, digital cameras, portable media players, PDAs, and GPS devices, are volatile, cyclical, and rapidly changing and could continue to utilize existing technology or adopt other new competing technologies. The market for certain of these products depends in part upon the development and deployment of wireless and other technologies, which may or may not address the needs of users of these new products. Many manufacturers of portable electronic devices have well-established relationships with competitive suppliers. Penetrating these markets will require MTI Micro to offer better performance alternatives to existing solutions at competitive costs. The failure of any of the target markets to continue to expand, or the failure to penetrate these markets to a significant extent, will impede MTI Micro’s potential sales growth. We cannot predict the growth rate of these markets or the market share MTI Micro will achieve in these markets in the future. If MTI Micro’s proposed portable power source products do not achieve market acceptance, it could materially and adversely affect MTI Micro’s business and financial condition. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 