Item 1A: Risk Factors Factors Affecting Future Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents we have filed with the SEC that are incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any statements contained, or incorporated by reference, in this Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. When we use the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plans,” “projects,” “continuing,” “ongoing,” “expects,” “management believes,” “we believe,” “we intend,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will” and similar words or phrases, we are identifying forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions which may cause our actual results, performance or achieveme nts to be materially different from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others: our history of recurring net losses and the risk of continued net losses; our independent auditors have included a going concern paragraph in their opinion: sales revenue growth of our test and measurement instrumentation business may not be achieved; the dependence of our test and measurement instrumentation business on a small number of customers and potential loss of government contracts; our need to raise additional financing for our new energy segment; our ownership position in MTI Micro may be reduced further as a result of our need to seek external financing for MTI Micro’s operations; risks related to developing Mobion® direct methanol fuel cells and whether we will ever successfully develop reliable and commercially viable Mobion® fuel cell solutions; our portable power source products or our customers’ products that utilize our portable power source products may not be accepted by the market; our inability to build and maintain relationships with our customers; our lack of experience in manufacturing fuel cell systems on a commercial basis; our dependence on others for our production requirements for our portable power source products; our dependence on our manufacturing subcontractors to provide high levels of productivity and satisfactory delivery schedules for our portable power source products; our dependence on third-party suppliers for most of the manufacturing equipment necessary to produce our portable power source products; our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials, including platinum and ruthenium, necessary for the production of our portable power source products; our dependence on OEMs integrating Mobion® fuel cell systems into their devices; our lack of long-term purchase commitments from our customers and the ability of our customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders for our products; risks related to protection and infringement of intellectual property; our inability to commercialize our proposed portable power source solutions and develop new product solutions on a timely basis; our inability to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers; intense competition in the direct methanol fuel cell and instrumentation businesses; changes in policies by U.S. or foreign governments that hinder, disrupt, or economically disadvantage international trade; 15 the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations; the uncertainty of the U.S. economy; the historical volatility of our stock price; the cyclical nature of the electronics industry; failure of our strategic alliances to achieve their objectives or perform as contemplated and the risk of cancellation or early termination of such alliance by either party; product liability or defects; risks related to the flammable nature of methanol as a fuel source; the loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel; significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations; our dependence on sole suppliers or a limited group of suppliers for both business segments; risks related to the limitation of the use of our net operating losses in the event of certain ownership changes; and other factors discussed under the headings “Risk Factors” below. Except as may be required by applicable law, we do not undertake or intend to update or revise our forward-looking statements, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of new information or future events or developments. Thus, assumptions should not be made that our silence over time means that actual events are bearing out as expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Also refer to Factors Affecting Future Results. We have incurred recurring net losses and anticipate continued net losses as we execute our commercialization plan for our portable power source business. If we do not raise financing in the next few months, we will be required to dramatically downsize, discontinue, or sell our portable power source business and/or our test and measurement instrumentation business. We have incurred recurring net losses, including net losses of $12.5 million in 2008, $3.1 million in 2009, and $1.8 million in 2010. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $122 million as of December 31, 2010. Subject to cash availability, we expect to continue to make significant expenditures and incur substantial expenses as we develop and commercialize our proposed portable power source products; develop our manufacturing, sales, and distribution networks; implement internal systems and infrastructure; and hire additional personnel. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant losses as we execute our plan to commercialize our portable power source business and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We will be unable to satisfy our current obligations solely from cash generated from operations or become profitable until we successfully commercialize our portable power source business. If we continue to incur substantial losses and are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to discontinue or curtail our business operations; sell assets at unfavorable prices; or merge, consolidate, or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us. At present, the Company does not expect to continue to fund MTI Micro on a long-term basis. Based on the Company’s projected cash requirements for operations and capital expenditures and its current cash and cash equivalents of $1.1 million at December 31, 2010, management believes it will have adequate resources to fund its current operations, excluding MTI Micro operations, but there can be no assurance. Since the company will no longer fund MTI Micro, the subsidiary has sought other sources of funding, but there is no assurance that such funding will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 16 Our ownership position in MTI Micro may be reduced as a result of external financing for MTI Micro's operations, which could limit our ability to control the operations. As of December 31, 2010, we owned approximately 50.6% of the outstanding equity in MTI Micro and have control over the operations of this subsidiary. In September 2008, MTI Micro executed a Convertible Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), Secured Convertible Promissory Note Agreements (the “Bridge Notes”), Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement’) and Warrant Agreements (the “Warrants”). The investors (the “Bridge Investors”) included MTI, in the form of conversion of existing debt of $700 thousand, Dr. Walter L. Robb, a member of the Company’s and MTI Micro’s Boards of Directors, and Counter Point Ventures Fund II, LP (Counter Point). Counter Point is a venture capital fund sponsored and managed by Dr. Walter L. Robb. The Bridge Notes, along with amendments in 2009, allowed MTI Micro to borrow up to an aggregate of $3.5 million, including conversion of the outstanding debt totaling $700 thousand owed to the Company. Effective December 4, 2009, MTI Micro had sold all additional Brid ge Notes. The Bridge Notes had an interest rate of 10%, compounded annually. In December 2009, MTI Micro entered into a Secured Convertible Promissory Note Negotiated Conversion Agreement (the “Conversion Agreement”) with the Company and the other Bridge Investors. The parties agreed to, among other things, convert the aggregate principal and accrued interest amount of $3,910,510 outstanding under the Bridge Notes into an aggregate of 55,864,425 shares of Common Stock of MTI Micro using a conversion price per share of $0.07 (the “Negotiated Conversion”). Warrants to purchase MTI Micro common stock at $0.07 per share were issued to Bridge Investors for an aggregate of 5,081,237 shares. As an incentive for MTI Micro to agree to the terms of the Negotiated Conversion, MTI Micro, the Company and the Bridge Investors also agreed that immediately prior to the consummation of the Negotiated Conversion, MTI Micro would issue to each current MTI Micro stockholder (including the Company), without c onsideration, a warrant (“Micro Warrant”) exercisable after one (1) year for up to 50% of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock each such MTI Micro stockholder currently held in MTI Micro, at $0.07 per share and with a term of seven (7) years. Accordingly, immediately prior to the consummation of the Negotiated Conversion on December 9, 2009, MTI Micro issued Micro Warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 32,779,310 shares of MTI Micro Common Stock. As a result of the negotiated conversion in December 2009 of an aggregate principal and accrued interest amount of $3,910,510 outstanding under the Bridge Notes, the Company’s ownership interest in MTI Micro decreased from approximately 97.3% to approximately 61.8%, or 67.8% on a fully-diluted basis including the Micro Warrants issued to all current MTI Micro stockholders and the Bridge Warrants. In January 2010, MTI Micro entered into a Common Stock and Warrant Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with Counter Point Ventures Fund II, L.P. (“Counter Point”). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, MTI Micro issued and sold to Counter Point 28,571,429 shares of common stock of Micro at a purchase price per share of $0.07, over a period of twelve months, and 5,714,286 warrants (“Warrants”) to purchase shares of Micro Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.07 per share. After the sale of all stock and warrants under the Purchase Agreement, the Company continued to hold an aggregate of 55.8% of the fully-diluted common stock of MTI Micro, excluding stock options outstanding. On February 9, 2011, MTI Micro entered into Amendment No. 1 to Common Stock and Warrant Purchase Agreement (the “Amendment”) with Counter Point. The Amendment allows MTI Micro to draw down $450 thousand through June 30, 2011 in exchange for 6,428,574 shares of MTI Micro Common Stock and 1,285,715 warrants. The funds are available through monthly “Closings”, with the amount available of $90 thousand for the month of February, $45 thousand for the month of March, and $105 thousand for the months of April through June. In addition, we do not currently expect to advance additional long-term resources to MTI Micro to fund its continued direct methanol fuel cell development and commercialization programs. Instead, MTI Micro will seek additional capital from external sources to fund future development and operations. Depending on the valuation of MTI Micro at the time of future financings, if any, our ownership position could be substantially diluted, and we may no longer have sufficient equity to control the operations of MTI Micro. If MTI Micro is unable to secure the necessary additional external financing, we may be forced to substantially downsize or eliminate its operations. As a result of the financing mentioned above or the exercise of outstanding stock options, the Company is expected to be further diluted and will likely experience a change of ownership position in MTI Micro. 17 We currently do not have sufficient funds to commercialize our portable power source products. In order to continue full commercialization of its micro fuel cell solution, MTI Micro will need to do one or more of the following to raise additional resources, or reduce its cash requirements: obtain additional government or private funding of the Company’s direct methanol fuel cell research, development, manufacturing readiness and commercialization; secure additional debt or equity financing; or further reduce its current expenditure run-rate. There is no guarantee that resources will be available to MTI Micro on terms acceptable to it, or at all, or that such resources will be received in a timely manner, if at all, or that MTI Micro will be able to reduce its expenditure run-rate without materially and adversely affecting its business. MTI Micro had cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2010 of $198 thousand. Additionally, in January 2011, MTI Micro received the final drawdown from the Purchase Agreement of $113 thousand, $77 thousand from NYSERDA, and in February 2011 received the first drawdown of the Amendment of $90 thousand. MTI Micro also has $35 thousand in both billable and outstanding invoices on the NYSERDA contract, $6 thousand on the DOE contract and $360 thousand remaining on the Amendment, available to it through monthly closings through June 30, 2011. In order to conserve cash and extend operations while we pursue any additional necessary financing, we have reduced operating expenses effective January 1, 2011. There is no assurance that funds raised in any financing will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms favorable to us or to existing stockholders and at such times as required, or that we will be able to obtain the additional financing required for the continued operation and growth of our business. During the last twenty eight months, MTI Micro has raised $4.7 million in external debt and equity financing. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, MTI Micro’s stockholders will experience further dilution. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Any debt financing or additional equity financing may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through c ollaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs, or discontinue our portable power source business. Without other resources, management currently believes it will need to make significant changes to its operations before the third quarter of 2011. Continuing uncertainty of the U.S. economy may have serious implications for the growth and stability of our business and may negatively affect our stock price. The revenue growth and profitability of our business will depend significantly on the overall demand for test and measurement instrumentations as well as electronic devices. Softening demand in these markets caused by ongoing economic uncertainty may result in decreased revenue or earnings levels. The U.S. economy has been historically cyclical and market conditions continue to be challenging, which has resulted in individuals and companies delaying or reducing expenditures. Further delays or reductions in spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, stock price, and ability to continue to operate. We currently derive all of our product revenue from our test and measurement instrumentation business. Our test and measurement instrumentation business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: a continued slow down or cancellation of sales to the military as a result of a potential redeployment of governmental funding; the company may not be able to maintain, improve, or expand its direct and indirect channels of distribution; a failure to expand or maintain the business as a result of competition, a lack of brand awareness, or market saturation; and an inability to launch new products as a result of intensive competition, uncertainty of new technology development, and developmental timelines. In addition, our test and measurement instrumentation products can be sold in quantity to a relatively few number of customers, resulting in a customer concentration risk. This business experienced a significant decline in sales in 2008 with comparable sales in 2009, and a sales growth of $900 thousand for 2010. The further loss of any significant portion of such customers or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are required to discontinue our portable power source business due to lack of funding, all of our corporate overhead costs would be allocated to the test and measurement instrumentation business. 18 We have not generated any product revenue from our portable power source business and currently have no portable power source commercial products. We have not generated any product revenue from our portable power source business and currently have no portable power source commercial products. The successful development and commercialization of our portable power source products will depend on a number of factors, including the following: continuing our research and development efforts; finalizing the design of our portable power source products; securing OEM customers to incorporate our portable power source products into products sold by them; arranging for adequate manufacturing capabilities; and completing, refining, and managing our supply chain and distribution channels. Additionally, our technology is new and complex, and there may be technical barriers to the development of our portable power source products. The development of our portable power source products may not succeed or may be significantly delayed. Our portable power source products will be produced through manufacturing arrangements that have not been finalized or tested on a commercial scale. If we fail to successfully develop or experience significant delays in the development of our portable power source products, or if there are significant delays in commercialization, we are unlikely to recover those losses, thus making it impossible for us to become profitable through the sales of these products. This would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. If adequate funds are not available by the second quarter of 2011, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our portable power source products, or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. Any of these factors could harm our business and financial condition. Any revenue derived in the relatively near-term relating to our portable power source business likely will result from governmental contracts or other governmental funding. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to secure continued government funding. The loss of such contracts or the inability to obtain additional contracts could materially harm our business. We may experience an ownership change which would result in a limitation of the use of our net operating losses. As of December 31, 2010, it is estimated that MTI has net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $51.9 million and MTI Micro has net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $15.3 million As a result of the conversion of the bridge notes in December 2009, MTI no longer maintained an 80% or greater ownership in MTI Micro. Thus, MTI Micro is no longer included in Mechanical Technology, Inc. and Subsidiaries' consolidated federal and combined New York State tax returns, effective December 9, 2009. Also as a result of the conversion of the bridge note, MTI Micro may have experienced a Section 382 ownership change, which would further reduce their NOLs by an estimated $6.7 million. Our ability to utilize both the MTI and MTI Micro NOL carryforwards, including any future NOL carryforwards that may arise, may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we or MTI Micro undergo any further “ow nership changes” as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our outstanding common stock pursuant to the exercise of the warrants, the conversion of the MTI Micro’s bridge notes, or otherwise. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the ownership of its stock, by value, changes by more than 50 percentage points over any three-year testing period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses. Pursuant to the Internal Revenue Service's consolidated tax return regulations (IRS Regulation Section 1.1502-36), upon MTI Micro leaving the Mechanical Technology, Inc. and Subsidiaries consolidated group, MTI has elected to reduce a portion of its stock tax basis in MTI Micro by "reattributing" a portion of MTI Micro's net operating loss carry forwards to MTI, for an amount equivalent to its built in loss amount in MTI's investment in MTI Micro's stock. As the result of MTI making this election with its December 31, 2009 tax return, MTI reattributed approximately $45.2 million of MTI Micro's net operating losses (reducing its tax basis in MTI Micro's stock by the same amount), leaving MTI Micro with approximately $13 million of separate company net operating loss carry forwards at the time of conversion of the Bridge Notes. However, as noted above, as the result of a potential Section 382 limitation, caused by the conversion, it is es timated that at least $6.69 million of these net operating losses may expire prior to utilization. 19 Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, which has adversely affected the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock. In April 2009, we voluntarily delisted our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market to reduce expenses and to avoid a likely involuntary delisting for failure to comply with the continued listing requirements. Our common stock subsequently began trading on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “MKTY PK.” As a result of the delisting, the liquidity in our stock has decreased, which adversely affected the price of our stock, which may make it more difficult for you to trade in our stock. Our portable power source products may not be accepted by the market. Any portable power source products that we develop may not achieve market acceptance. The development of a successful market for our proposed portable power source products and our ability to sell those products at favorable prices may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: our failure to produce portable power source products that compete favorably against other products on the basis of price, quality, performance, and life; competition from conventional lithium-ion or other rechargeable battery systems; the ability of our technologies and product solutions to address the needs of the electronic device markets, the requirements of OEMs, and the preferences of end users; our ability to provide OEMs with portable power source products that provide advantages in terms of size, weight, peak power, power duration, reliability, durability, performance, and value-added features compared to alternative solutions; and our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with OEMs, manufacturers, distributors, and others as well as strategic partners. Target markets for our proposed portable power source products, such as those for mobile phones (including smart phones) and mobile phone accessories, digital cameras, portable media players, PDAs, and GPS devices, are volatile, cyclical, and rapidly changing and could continue to utilize existing technology or adopt other new competing technologies. The market for certain of these products depends in part upon the development and deployment of wireless and other technologies, which may or may not address the needs of users of these new products. Many manufacturers of portable electronic devices have well-established relationships with competitive suppliers. Penetrating these markets will require us to offer better performance alternatives to existing solutions at competitive costs. The failure of any of our target markets to continue to expand, or our failure to penetrate these markets to a significant extent, will impede our potential sales growth. We cannot predict the growth rate of these markets or the market share we will achieve in these markets in the future. If our proposed portable power source products fail to gain market acceptance, it could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Market acceptance of our customers’ products that utilize our portable power source products may decline or may not develop and, as a result, our sales will be harmed. We plan to produce portable power source products that our OEM customers incorporate into their products. As a result, the success of our proposed portable power source products will depend upon the widespread market acceptance of the products of our OEM customers. We will not control or influence the manufacture, promotion, distribution, or pricing of the products that incorporate our portable power source products. Instead, we will depend on our OEM customers to manufacture and distribute products incorporating our portable power source products and to generate consumer demand through their marketing and promotional activities. Even if our technologies and products successfully meet our customers’ price and performance goals, our sales would be harmed if our OEM customers do not achieve commercial success in selling their products to consumers that incorporate our portable power source products. Any lack of adoption in the use of our portable power source products by OEM customers in the electronic device markets, the reduced demand for our OEM customers’ products, or a slowdown in their markets would adversely affect our sales. 20 If we fail to build and maintain relationships with our customers and do not satisfy our customers, we may lose future sales and our revenue may stagnate or decline. Because our success depends on the widespread market acceptance of our customers’ products, we must develop and maintain our relationships with leading global OEMs of electronic devices, such as mobile phones (including smart phones) and mobile phone accessories, digital cameras, portable media players, PDAs, and GPS devices. In addition, we must identify areas of significant growth potential in other markets, establish relationships with OEMs in those markets, and assist them in developing products that use our portable power source products and technologies. Our failure to identify potential growth opportunities, particularly in new markets, or establish and maintain relationships with OEMs in those markets, would prevent our business from growing in those markets. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers will require us to provide portable power source products for customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to maintain customer satisfaction with our product solutions. We must match our design and production capacity with customer demand, maintain satisfactory delivery schedules, and meet specific performance goals. If we are unable to achieve these goals for any reason, our customers could reduce their purchases from us and our sales would decline or fail to develop. Our customer relationships also can be affected by factors affecting our customers that are unrelated to our performance. These factors can include a myriad of situations, including business reversals of customers, determinations by customers to change their product mix or abandon business segments, or mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions involving our customers. We have no experience manufacturing portable power source products on a commercial scale. To date, we have focused primarily on research, development, and pilot production, and we have no experience manufacturing any portable power source products on a commercial scale. Our pilot production efforts to date have been limited in scale. It is our intent to manufacture our portable power source products through OEM customers and third-party manufacturers. Failure to secure manufacturing capabilities could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We will rely on others for our production, and any interruptions of these arrangements could disrupt our ability to fill our customers’ orders. We plan to rely on others for all of our production requirements for our portable power source products. The majority of this manufacturing is anticipated to be conducted in Asia by manufacturing subcontractors that also perform services for numerous other companies. We do not expect to have a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our manufacturing subcontractors. Qualifying new manufacturing subcontractors is time consuming and might result in unforeseen manufacturing and operating problems. The loss of any relationships with our manufacturing subcontractors or assemblers or their inability to conduct their manufacturing and assembly services for us as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness could adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, the resulting decline in revenue would harm our business. We will depend on third parties to maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and delivery schedules, and their inability to do so could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, and result in our inability to deliver our portable power source products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We will depend on our manufacturing subcontractors to maintain high levels of productivity and satisfactory delivery schedules for our portable power source products from manufacturing and assembly facilities likely located primarily in Asia. We plan to provide our manufacturing subcontractors with rolling forecasts of our production requirements. We do not, however, anticipate having long-term agreements with any of our manufacturing subcontractors that guarantee production capacity, prices, lead times, or delivery schedules. Our manufacturing subcontractors will serve other customers, many of which will have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, our manufacturing subcontractors could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. We may experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and lengthening of delivery schedules. Lower than exp ected manufacturing yields could increase our costs or disrupt our supply chain. We may encounter lower manufacturing yields and longer delivery schedules while commencing volume production of any new products. Any of these problems could result in our inability to deliver our product solutions in a timely manner and adversely affect our operating results. 21 We plan to rely on third-party suppliers for most of our manufacturing equipment. We plan to rely on third-party suppliers for most of the manufacturing equipment necessary to produce our portable power source products. The failure of suppliers to supply manufacturing equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our commercialization plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedules or increase our manufacturing costs. Further, our orders with certain of our suppliers may represent a very small portion of their total orders. As a result, they may not give priority to our business, leading to potential delays in or cancellation of our orders. If any single-source supplier were to fail to supply our needs on a timely basis or cease providing us with key components, we would be required to substitute suppliers. We may have difficulty identifying a substitute supplier in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed. Shortages of components and raw materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs, thereby harming our results of operations. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials, including platinum and ruthenium, necessary for the production of our portable power source products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales could adversely impact our operating results. Many of the materials used in the production of our portable power source products will be available only from a limited number of foreign suppliers, particularly component suppliers located in Asia. In most cases, neither we nor our manufacturing subcontractors will have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. As a result, we will be subject to economic instability in these Asian countries as well as to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our customers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce their products into which our product solutions are incorporated. From time to time, materials and components necessary for our portable power source products or in other aspects of our customers’ products may be subject to allocation because of shortages of these materials and components. Shortages in the future could cause delayed shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and lower revenue. We will be subject to lengthy development periods and product acceptance cycles, which can result in development and engineering costs without any future revenue. We plan to provide portable power source solutions that are incorporated by OEMs into the products they sell. OEMs will make the determination during their product development programs whether to incorporate our portable power source solutions or pursue other alternatives. This process may require us to make significant investments of time and resources in the design of portable customer-specific power source solutions well before our customers introduce their products incorporating our product solutions and before we can be sure that we will generate any significant sales to our customers or even recover our investment. During a customer’s entire product development process, we will face the risk that our portable power source products will fail to meet our customer’s technical, performance, or cost requirements or that our products will be replaced by competing products or alternative technological solutions. Even if we co mplete our design process in a manner satisfactory to our customer, the customer may decide to delay or terminate its product development efforts. The occurrence of any of these events could cause sales to not materialize, to be deferred, or to be cancelled, which would adversely affect our operating results. We will not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and their ability to cancel, reduce, or delay orders could reduce our revenue and increase our costs. Customers for our portable power source products will not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments, but instead will issue purchase orders to buy a specified number of units. As a result, customers may be able to cancel purchase orders or reduce or delay orders at any time. The cancellation, delay, or reduction of customer purchase orders could result in reduced revenue, excess inventory, and unabsorbed overhead. We currently have no presence in the electronic device markets. Our success in the electronic device markets will require us to establish the value added proposition of our products to OEMs that have traditionally used other portable power solutions. All of the markets we plan to serve are subject to severe competitive pressures, rapid technological change and product obsolescence, which may increase our inventory and overhead risks, resulting in increased costs. Variability of customer requirements resulting in cancellations, reductions, or delays may adversely affect our operating results. We will be required to provide rapid product turnaround and respond to short lead times. A variety of conditions, both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for OEMs’ products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers could adversely affect our operating results. Customers may require rapid increases in production, which could strain our resources and reduce our margins. 22 If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors and other third parties could produce products based on our intellectual property, which would substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark law and license agreements, as well as nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on these inventions. In addition, we cannot be sure that any of our pending patent applications will issue. The United States Patent and Trademark Office or other foreign patent and trademark offices may deny or significantly narrow claims made under our patent applications and, even if issued, these patents may be successfully challenged, designed around, or may otherwis e not provide us with any commercial protection. We may in the future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. Regardless of the final outcome, any litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, or trademarks could be highly unpredictable and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, or are invalid or unenforceable, and could award attorneys’ fees to the other party. We may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from selling our products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. We may receive notices from third parties that the manufacture, use, or sale of any products we develop infringes upon one or more claims of their patents. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect our business. Third parties could also assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our future product offerings, if any. Whether or not such claims are valid, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages, and our inability to manufacture, market, or sell any of our product offerings that are found to infringe. Even if we were to prevail in any such action, the litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business. If a court determined, or if we independently discovered, that our product offerings violated third-party proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we would be able to re-engineer our product offerings to avoid those rights or obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prohibited from selling products that are found to infringe upon the rights of others. Even if obtaining a license were feasible, it may be costly and time-consuming. A court could also enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily, or permanently enjoin us from making, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing our portable power source products, or could enter orders mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Further, a court could order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest, and could in addition treble the compensatory dam ages and award attorneys’ fees. These damages could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information, which could limit our ability to compete. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology and processes. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. However, these agreements may not be honored and enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. The failure to obtain and maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. Our efforts to develop new technologies may not result in commercial success, which could cause a decline in our revenue and could harm our business. Our research and development efforts with respect to our technologies may not result in customer or market acceptance. Some or all of those technologies may not successfully make the transition from the research and development lab to cost-effective production as a result of technology problems, competitive cost issues, yield problems, and other factors. Even when we successfully complete a research and development effort with respect to a particular technology, our customers may decide not to introduce or may terminate products utilizing the technology for a variety of reasons, including the following: difficulties with other suppliers of components for the products; 23 superior technologies developed by our competitors and unfavorable comparisons of our solutions with these technologies; price considerations; and lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products. The nature of our business will require us to make continuing investments for new technologies. Significant expenses relating to one or more new technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. If our efforts are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. We may not be able to enhance our product solutions and develop new product solutions in a timely manner. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to provide new portable power source products that compare favorably with alternative solutions on the basis of time to introduction, cost, performance, and end-user preferences. Our success in attracting customers and developing business will depend on various factors, including the following: innovative development of new portable power source products for customer products; utilization of advances in technology; maintenance of quality standards; efficient and cost-effective solutions; and timely completion of the design and introduction of new portable power source products. Our inability to commercialize our proposed portable power source solutions and develop new product solutions on a timely basis could harm our operating results and impede our growth. If we do not keep pace with technological innovations, our products may not be competitive and our revenue and operating results may suffer. Technological advances, the introduction of new products, and new design techniques could adversely affect our business prospects unless we are able to adapt to the changing conditions. Technological advances could render our proposed portable power source products obsolete, and we may not be able to respond effectively to the technological requirements of evolving markets. As a result, we will be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to continue research and development activities on portable power source products; hire additional engineering and other technical personnel; and purchase advanced design tools and test equipment. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers, or our competitors do so more effectively than we do. New technology solutions that achieve significant market share could harm our business. New portable power source solutions could be developed. Existing electronic devices also could be modified to allow for a different power source solution. Our business could be harmed if our products become noncompetitive as a result of a technological breakthrough that allows a new power source solution to displace our solution and achieve significant market acceptance. Our inability to respond to changing technologies will harm our business. The electronic, semiconductor, solar, automotive and general instrumentation industries are subject to constant technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond appropriately to changing technologies and changes in product function and quality. If we rely on products and technologies that are not attractive to end users, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining any significant market share. In addition, any new technologies utilized in our portable power source products may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may harm our business. 24 International sales and manufacturing risks could adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate that the manufacturing and assembly operations for our portable power source products will be conducted primarily in Asia by manufacturing subcontractors. We also believe that many of our OEM customers will be located and much of our sales and distribution operations will be conducted in Asia. These international operations will expose us to various economic, political, and other risks that could adversely affect our operations and operating results, including the following: difficulties and costs of staffing and managing a multi-national organization; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; differing labor regulations; potentially adverse tax consequences; tariffs and duties and other trade barrier restrictions; possible employee turnover or labor unrest; greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; and political or economic instability in certain parts of the world. The risks associated with international operations could negatively affect our operating results. Our business may suffer if international trade is hindered, disrupted, or economically disadvantaged. Political and economic conditions abroad may adversely affect the foreign production and sale of our portable power source products. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell our portable power source products in foreign markets and to obtain materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. Changes in policies by the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a material adverse effect on us. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign investment or foreign trade also could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of our products to our U.S. customers and adversely impact our operating results. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. We transact our business predominantly in U.S. dollars and bill and collect our sales in U.S. dollars. In 2010, approximately 30% of our revenue was from customers outside of the United States. A weakening of the dollar could cause our overseas vendors to require renegotiation of either the prices or currency we pay for their goods and services. Similarly, a strengthening of the dollar could cause our products to be more expensive for our international customers, which could cause the demand for our products and our revenue to decline. In the future, customers may negotiate pricing and make payments in non-U.S. currencies. If our overseas vendors or customers require us to transact business in non-U.S. currencies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods, operating expenses, and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. 25 We expect that a majority of our manufacturing subcontractors will be located in Asia, increasing the risk that a natural disaster, labor strike, war, or political unrest in those countries would disrupt our operations. We expect that a majority of our manufacturing subcontractors will be located in Asia. Events out of our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, or other natural disasters, or political unrest, war, labor strikes, or work stoppages in Asia could disrupt their operations, which would impact our business. In addition, there is political tension between Taiwan and China that could lead to hostilities. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing capacity. Failure to secure alternative manufacturing capacity could cause a delay in the shipment of our products, which would cause our revenue to fluctuate or decline. The electronics industry is cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our operating results. The electronics industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times. These downturns are characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and production overcapacity. In addition, the electronics industry is cyclical in nature. We will seek to reduce our exposure to industry downturns and cyclicality by providing design and production services for leading companies in rapidly expanding industry segments. We may, however, experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. Our strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and their failure to do so could impede our growth. We plan to explore additional strategic alliances designed to enhance or complement our technology or to work in conjunction with our technology; to provide necessary know-how, components, or supplies; and to develop, introduce, and distribute products utilizing our technology. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, may be cancelled by either party, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of our current alliances or our inability to form additional alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. As a seller of consumer products using a flammable material such as methanol, we will face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that injuries result from product usage by customers. It is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation, or other causes. If such injuries or claims of injuries were to occur, we could incur monetary damages and our business could be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and, if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, could require us to make significant payments from our own resources. We expect to face intense competition that could result in failing to gain market share and suffering reduced revenue from our portable power source products. We plan to serve intensely competitive markets that are characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and competition from major domestic and international companies. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Most of our competitors have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess and that afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of products, to negotiate lower prices for raw materials and components, to deliver competitive products at lower prices, and to introduce new product solutions and respond to customer requirements more quickly than we can. Our competitive position could suffer if one or more of our customers decides not to utilize our portable power s ource products and instead contracts with our competitors or uses alternative technologies. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: our success in designing and introducing new portable power source products; our ability to predict the evolving needs of our customers and to assist them in incorporating our technologies into their new products; our ability to meet our customer’s requirements for small size, low weight, peak power, long power duration, ease of use, reliability, durability, and small form factor; the quality of our customer services; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own products; product or technology introductions by our competitors; and 26 foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our products. We depend on key personnel who would be difficult to replace, and our business will likely be harmed if we lose their services or cannot hire additional qualified personnel. Our success will depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and key personnel. The competition for qualified management and key personnel, especially engineers, is intense. Although we maintain non-competition and non-disclosure covenants with most of our key personnel, we do not have employment agreements with most of them. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel, especially engineers, technical support personnel, and capable sales and customer-support employees outside the United States, could delay the development and sale of our products, disrupt our business, and interfere with our ability to execute our business plan. Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments, other factors will contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: the cyclicality of the markets we serve; the timing and size of orders; the volume of orders relative to our capacity; product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; evolution in the life cycles of our customers’ products; timing of expenses in anticipation of future orders; changes in product mix; availability of manufacturing and assembly services; changes in cost and availability of labor and components; timely delivery of product solutions to customers; pricing and availability of competitive products; introduction of new technologies into the markets we serve; pressures on reducing selling prices; our success in serving new markets; and changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indicator of our future performance. Negative or unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results may result in a decline in the price of our stock. 27 