ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The order of these risk factors does not reflect their relative importance or likelihood of occurrence. Our business may be adversely affected by the current economic recession. The domestic and international economies are experiencing a significant recession. This recession has been magnified by the tightening of the credit markets. The domestic and international markets may remain depressed for an undeterminable period of time. Our sales to contractors are dependent on construction and infrastructure spending and availability of credit to our customers. Changes in construction and governmental spending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profits. 7 Table of Contents Our business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets served by us. The demand for our products and service is dependent on general economic conditions and more specifically, the commercial construction industry. Adverse economic conditions may cause customers to forego or delay new purchases and rely more on repairing existing equipment thus negatively impacting our sales and profits. Rising gas and oil prices, increasing steel prices, and shortage of qualified workers can have adverse effects on us. Market conditions could limit our ability to raise selling prices to offset increases in inventory costs. Our business is affected by the level of government funding for highway construction. In 2005, the Federal Government passed the SAFETEA-LU bill. This bill appropriated a multi-year guaranteed funding for federal highway, transit and safety programs and expires on September 30, 2009, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of our customers depend on funding by Federal and state agencies. Future legislation may increase or decrease government spending, which if decreased, could have a negative affect on our financial condition or results of operations. SAFETEA-LU and other legislation may be revised in future congressional sessions, Federal funding of infrastructure may be decreased in the future, especially since the United States is currently experiencing an economic recession. If we fail to comply with requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require us to assess our internal control over financial reporting annually. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex. They require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation of any significant deficiencies in and/or material weaknesses of our internal controls in order to meet the detailed standards under these rules. We have evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting as effective as of September 30, 2008. See Item 9A – Controls and Procedures – Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Although we have evaluated our internal controls as effective as of September 30, 2008, in future fiscal years, we may encounter unanticipated delays or problems in assessing our internal controls as effective or in completing our assessments by the required dates. In addition, we cannot assure you that our independent registered public accountants will attest our internal controls as effective in future fiscal years. If we cannot assess our internal controls as effective, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. We may be required to reduce our profit margins on contracts on which we use the percentage-of-completion accounting method. We record sales and profits on many of our contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. As a result, revisions made to our estimates of sales and profits are recorded in the period in which the conditions that require such revisions become known and can be estimated. Although we believe that our profit margins are fairly stated and that adequate provisions for losses for our fixed-price contracts are recorded in our financial statements, as required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we cannot assure you that our contract profit margins will not decrease or our loss provisions will not increase materially in the future. Terrorist acts upon the United States and acts of war (actual or threatened) could result in a significant impact on our business. The terrorist acts carried out against the United States on September 11, 2001 and the war with Iraq and its aftermath adversely impacted the United States economy. Additional terrorist acts against the United States and the threat of or actual war by or upon the United States could reduce the allocation of available funds to construction and infrastructure spending, which would result in a significant reduction of our business and may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. There is a growing consensus that emissions of greenhouse gasses (GHGs) are linked to global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. These changes, if they were to occur, could impact our customers’ ability to initiate and complete construction and infrastructure projects, which could reduce demand for our products and services and negatively impact: (a) our financial condition and results of operations and (b) the market price of our common stock. To the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact our revenues. Our financial performance is tied to the health of the regional economies we serve. The price of energy, as a factor in a region’s cost of living as well as an important input into the cost of goods, has an impact on the economic health of our communities. The cost of additional regulatory requirements, such as a tax on GHGs or additional environmental regulation, would normally be borne by consumers through higher prices for energy and purchased goods. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of GHGs as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less than ideal terms and conditions. Income from our investment in synthetic fuel partnerships is affected by the level of oil prices and the tax code. The tax credits provided for the synthetic fuel industry under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code expired at the end of calendar year 2007. As a result, we do not believe that we will receive any significant future distributions. We face risks associated with our international business. We operate manufacturing and sales offices principally located in the United States and the United Kingdom. As a result, we are subject to business risks inherent in non-U.S. activities, including difficulty in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations, difficulty in managing distributors and dealers, adverse tax consequences, political and economic uncertainty and difficulty in accounts receivable collection. We are subject to the risks associated with the imposition of protective legislation and regulations, including those relating to import or export or otherwise resulting from trade or foreign policy. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions will be implemented by the U.S. or any other country upon the import or export of our products. There can be no assurance that any of these factors, or the adoption of restrictive policies, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we face market risk related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our principal currency exposure against the U.S. dollar is the British pound. Our foreign currency exposures generally are not hedged and there can be no assurance that our future results of operations and investments will not be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Periodically, we use derivative financial instruments consisting primarily of interest rate hedge agreements to manage exposures to interest rate changes. If we have not adequately managed our exposure to fluctuating interest rates, our earnings and cash flow could be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties with future acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to evaluate the acquisitions of other companies, assets or product lines that would complement or expand our existing businesses or broaden our customer relationships. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not be able to identify all material liabilities or risks related to potential acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate and acquire any business, retain key personnel and customers of an acquired business or integrate any acquired business successfully. Additionally, there can be no assurance that financing for any acquisition, if necessary, will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives in connection with any acquisition. Although we periodically consider possible acquisitions, no specific acquisitions are probable as of the date of this Report on Form 10-K. We could be harmed if we violate financial covenants contained in our credit facility. Our Revolving Credit and Security Agreement with PNC Bank, N.A., dated August 1, 2003, and amended July 31, 2006, imposes certain financial and operating covenants upon us, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, or take certain other corporate actions. In addition, the credit facility requires that we maintain certain financial 9 Table of Contents ratios and provides for limitations on capital expenditures. The foregoing covenants may restrict our ability to obtain additional funds, dispose of assets, or otherwise pursue our business strategies, and may impair our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. Changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could in the future cause a violation of one or more covenants in the credit facility, which could result in requiring us to immediately repay in full all amounts outstanding which could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, because substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under this credit facility, a default could have a negative adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. At the time of this report, there are no borrowings under our present facility and $.8 million of letters of credit outstanding. Demand for our products is cyclical in nature. Orders for our products slow down during the summer and fall months since our customers generally do not purchase new equipment for shipment in their peak season for highway construction and repair work. In addition, demand for our products depends in part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by the highway construction industry. The highway construction industry historically has been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the economy. Decreases in industry spending could have a material adverse effect upon demand for our products and negatively impact our business, financial condition,, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Our Marketable Securities are comprised of stocks and bonds invested through a professional investment advisor and are subject to various risks such as interest rates, markets, and credit. Due to the level of risk associated with certain investment securities and the level of uncertainty related to changes in the value of securities, changes in these risk factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. There are and will continue to be quarterly fluctuations of our operating results. Our operating results historically have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including the value, timing and shipment of individual orders and the mix of products sold. Revenues from certain large contracts are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting. We recognize product revenues upon shipment for the rest of our products. Our asphalt production equipment operations are subject to seasonal fluctuation, which may lower sales and result in possible losses in the first and fourth fiscal quarters of each year. Traditionally, asphalt producers do not purchase new equipment for shipment during the summer and fall months to avoid disruption of their activities during peak periods of highway construction. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. The success of our business will continue to depend substantially upon the efforts, abilities and services of our management team and certain other key employees. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our operations. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, either through direct hiring, or acquisition of other businesses employing such persons, will also be an important factor in determining our future success. We may be required to defend our intellectual property against infringement or against infringement claims of others. We hold numerous patents covering technology and applications related to various products, equipment and systems, and numerous trademarks and trade names registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in various foreign countries. There can be no assurance as to the breadth or degree of protection that existing or future patents or trademarks may afford us, or that any pending patent or trademark applications will result in issued patents or trademarks, or that our patents, registered trademarks or patent applications, if any, will be upheld if challenged, or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patents issued, licensed or sublicensed to us. Although we believe that none of our patents, technologies, products or trademarks infringe upon the patents, technologies, products or trademarks of others, it is possible that our existing patent, trademark or other rights may not be valid or that infringement of existing or future patents, trademarks or proprietary rights may occur. In the event that our products are deemed to infringe upon the patent or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify the design of our products, change the name of our products or obtain a license for the use of certain technologies incorporated into our products. There can be no assurance that we would be able to do any of the foregoing in a timely manner, upon acceptable 10 Table of Contents terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent, registered trademark or other proprietary right, and, if our products are deemed to infringe upon the patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights of others, we could become liable for damages, which could also have a material adverse effect on us. We may be subject to substantial liability for the products we produce. We are engaged in a business that could expose us to possible liability claims for personal injury or property damage due to alleged design or manufacturing defects in our products. We believe that we meet existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which we operate, and there are no material product liability claims pending against us as of the date hereof. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage which we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business, such insurance may prove inadequate or become difficult to obtain or unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, and our costs related to compliance with, or our failure to comply with, existing or future laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, significant administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Our business involves environmental management and issues typically associated with historical manufacturing operations. To date, our cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations has not been material, but the fact that such laws or regulations are changed frequently makes predicting the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on our future operations uncertain. The loss of one or more of our raw materials supplies could cause production delays, a reduction of revenues or an increase in costs. The principal raw materials we use are steel and related products. We have no long-term supply agreements with any of our major suppliers. However, we have generally been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials for our operations, and changes in prices of such materials historically have not had a significant affect on our operations. Although we believe that such raw materials are readily available from alternate sources, an interruption in our supply of steel and related products or a substantial increase in the price of any of these raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant government regulations. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing of our products. Any failure by us to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to future liabilities, or the suspension of production that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Such regulations could also restrict our ability to expand our facilities, or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other expenses to comply with such regulations. Although we believe we have the design and manufacturing capability to meet all industry or governmental agency standards that may apply to our product lines, including all domestic and foreign environmental, structural, electrical and safety codes, there can be no assurance that governmental laws and regulations will not become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with a violation. The cost to us of such compliance to date has not materially affected our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, that violations will not occur in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Our customers are also subject to extensive regulations, including those related to the workplace. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of governmental legislation, or regulatory requirements that could be imposed or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered, or interpreted. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management has effective voting control. Our officers and directors beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 94.6% of the outstanding shares of our $.10 par value Class B stock. The Class B stock is entitled to elect 75% (calculated to the nearest whole number, rounding five-tenths to next highest whole number) of the 11 Table of Contents members of our board of directors. Further, approval of a majority of the Class B stock is generally required to effect a sale of us and certain other corporate transactions. As a result, these stockholders can elect more than a majority of the board of directors and exercise significant influence over most matters requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The issuance of preferred stock may impede a change of control or may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder vote, to issue up to 300,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to determine for any series the dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other preferences, rights and terms that are senior, and not available, to the holders of our common stock. Thus, issuances of series of preferred stock could adversely affect the relative voting power, distributions and other rights of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could deter or impede a merger, tender offer or other transaction that some, or a majority, of our common stockholders might believe to be in their best interest or in which our common stockholders might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price of such shares. We may be required to indemnify our directors and executive officers. We have authority under Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law to indemnify our directors and officers to the extent provided in that statute. Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, provides that a director shall not be personally liable to us for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Our Bylaws provide in part that we indemnify each of our directors and officers against liabilities imposed upon them (including reasonable amounts paid in settlement) and expenses incurred by them in connection with any claim made against them or any action, suit or proceeding to which they may be a party by reason of their being or having been a director or officer. We maintain officer’s and director’s liability insurance coverage. There can be no assurance that such insurance will be available in the future, or that if available, it will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage provided will be sufficient to cover the amount of any judgment awarded against an officer or director (either individually or in the aggregate). Consequently, if such judgment exceeds the coverage under the policy, we may be forced to pay such difference. We enter into indemnification agreements with each of our executive officers and directors containing provisions that may require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as officers or directors (other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature) and to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified. Management believes that such indemnification provisions and agreements are necessary to attract and retain qualified persons as directors and executive officers. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance our business requirements, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock or Class B stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon then existing conditions, including our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects, and other factors that the Board of Directors considers relevant. Competition could reduce revenue from our products and services and cause us to lose market share. We currently face strong competition in product performance, price and service. Some of our national competitors have greater financial, product development and marketing resources than we have. If competition in our industry intensifies or if our current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, we may lose sales or be required to lower the prices we charge for our products. This may reduce revenue from our products and services lower our gross margins or cause us to lose market share. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may decrease our stock price. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The reasons our quarterly results may fluctuate include: • general competitive and economic conditions; • delays in, or uneven timing in, the delivery of customer orders; • the seasonal nature of our industry; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • product supply shortages; and • reduced demand due to adverse weather conditions. Period-to-period comparisons of such items should not be relied on as indications of future performance. Our stock has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control. In recent years, the stock market in general and the market for our common stock have experienced extreme price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors such as: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in our revenue growth rates as a whole or for specific geographic areas or products; • changes in earning estimates by market analysts; • the announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • speculation in the press or analyst community; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. The market price of our common stock may experience significant fluctuations in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 