Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various industry, economic, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. 18 Table of Contents The health of the economy in general and in the markets we serve could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Our business is affected by the economy in general, including changes in consumer purchasing power, preferences and/or spending patterns. These changes could affect drug utilization trends as well as the financial health and number of covered lives of our PBM clients, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial results. In that regard, the current economic recession has resulted in declining drug utilization trends during 2008 and 2009. It is possible that a worsening of these trends will cause further decline in drug utilization, and dampen demand for pharmacy benefit management services as well as consumer demand for products sold in our retail stores. If this were to occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Further, interest rate fluctuations and changes in capital market conditions may affect our ability to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, our ability to secure suitable store locations under acceptable terms and our ability to execute sale-leaseback transactions under acceptable terms. Inability to realize the benefits of the Caremark Merger. We may not be able to achieve all of the anticipated long-term strategic benefits of the Caremark Merger. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of the anticipated benefits could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of our common stock. Inability to integrate and realize the benefits of the Longs Acquisition. We may not be able to successfully integrate the assets acquired in the Longs Acquisition. An inability to achieve the full extent of, or any of the anticipated synergies, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of our common stock. Efforts to reduce reimbursement levels and alter health care financing practices could adversely affect our businesses. The continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, other PBM companies, government entities, and other third party payors to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates may impact our profitability. In particular, increased utilization of generic pharmaceuticals (which normally yield a higher gross profit rate than equivalent brand named drugs), has resulted in pressure to decrease reimbursement payments to retail and mail order pharmacies for generic drugs, causing a reduction in the generic profit rate. In addition, during the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Changing political, economic and regulatory influences may affect health care financing and reimbursement practices. If the current health care financing and reimbursement system changes significantly, the combined company’s business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The DRA seeks to reduce federal spending by altering the Medicaid reimbursement formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs. According to the Congressional Budget Office, retail pharmacies are expected to negotiate with individual states for higher dispensing fees to mitigate the adverse effect of these changes. These changes were expected to begin to take effect in 2007 and to result in reduced Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies. During 2007, CMS issued a final rule implementing the new reimbursement formula. Subsequent to issuance of this rule, a group of retail pharmacy industry trade groups filed suit in Federal District Court seeking to enjoin CMS from implementing the rule. In December 2007, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia preliminarily enjoined CMS from implementing the final rule to the extent such action affects Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies. In October 2008, CMS issued a rule which modified the definition of multi-source drugs, seeking to address one of the legal challenges on which the injunction was issued. Plaintiffs in the litigation responded with an amended complaint asserting that the revised definition continues to be inconsistent with the DRA. Accordingly, the timing and extent of any reductions and the impact on the Company cannot be determined at this time. 19 Table of Contents The possibility of customer loss and/or the failure to win new business may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Our PBM business generates net revenues primarily by contracting with clients to provide prescription drugs and related health care services to plan participants. PBM client contracts generally have terms approximating 3 years in duration. Accordingly, approximately one third of a PBM’s customer base typically is subject to renewal each year, and therefore we face challenges in competing for new business and retaining or renewing business. Although none of our PBM clients represented more than 10% of our Company’s consolidated revenues in 2008, our top 10 clients are expected to represent approximately 30% of such revenues in 2009. There can be no assurance that we will be able to win new business or secure renewal business on terms as favorable to the Company as the present terms. Accordingly, our failure to renew or win PBM business could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Risks related to the frequency and rate of the introduction of new prescription drugs as well as generic alternatives to brand name prescription products. The profitability of retail and mail order pharmacy businesses are dependent upon the utilization of prescription drug products. Utilization trends are affected by the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals as well as lower priced generic alternatives to existing brand name products. Accordingly, a slowdown in the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals and/or generic alternatives (the sale of which normally yield higher gross profit margins than brand name equivalents) could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Risks of declining gross margins in the PBM industry. The PBM industry has been experiencing margin pressure as a result of competitive pressures and increased client demands for lower prices, enhanced service offerings and/or higher service levels. In that regard, our Company maintains contractual relationships with generic pharmaceutical manufacturers and brand name pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide for purchase discounts and/or rebates on drugs dispensed by pharmacies in our national retail network (including CVS/pharmacy and Longs Drug stores) and by our mail order pharmacies (all or a portion of which may be passed on to clients). Manufacturer rebates often depend on a PBM’s ability to meet contractual market share or other requirements, including in some cases the placement of a manufacturer’s products on the PBM’s formularies. Competitive pressures in the PBM industry have caused Caremark and other PBMs to share with clients a larger portion of rebates and/or discounts received from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, purchase discount and rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, or to formulary management or other PBM services could also reduce the discounts or rebates we receive. Accordingly, margin pressure in the PBM industry resulting from these trends could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Uncertainty regarding the impact of Medicare Part D may adversely affect our business, financial position and our results of operations. Since its inception in 2006, the Medicare Drug Benefit has resulted in increased utilization and decreased pharmacy gross margin rates as higher margin business, such as cash and state Medicaid customers, migrated to Medicare Part D coverage. Further, as a result of the Medicare Drug Benefit, our PBM clients could decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits to their Medicare-eligible members. To the extent this occurs, the adverse effects of the Medicare Drug Benefit may outweigh any opportunities for new business generated by the new benefit. In addition, if the cost and complexity of the Medicare Drug Benefit exceed management’s expectations or prevent effective program implementation or administration; if changes to the regulations regarding how drug costs are reported for Medicare Drug Benefit and retiree drug subsidy purposes are implemented in a manner that impacts the profitability of our Medicare Part D business; if the government alters Medicare program requirements or reduces funding because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of the Medicare Drug Benefit or for other reasons; if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; or if we are not successful in retaining enrollees, or winning contract renewals or new contracts under the Medicare Drug Benefit’s competitive bidding process, our Medicare Part D services and the ability to expand our Medicare Part D services could be materially and adversely affected, and our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including Caremark’s network contracts and its PBM and specialty client contracts, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include AWP, ASP and WAC. Most of our PBM client contracts utilize the AWP standard. Further, most of the contracts governing the participation of CVS/pharmacy stores in retail pharmacy networks also utilize the AWP standard. Recent events, including the proposed FDB and Medi-Span settlements described in the Government Regulation of Health Care Matters section, have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. Changes in reporting of AWP, or in the basis for calculating reimbursement proposed by the federal government and certain states, and other legislative or regulatory adjustments that may be made regarding the reimbursement of payments for drugs by Medicaid and Medicare, could impact our pricing to customers and other payors and could impact our ability to negotiate rebates and/or discounts with manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs or retail pharmacies. In some circumstances, such changes could also impact the reimbursement that we receive from Medicare or Medicaid programs for drugs covered by such programs and from MCOs that contract with government health programs to provide prescription drug benefits. In addition, it is possible that payors, pharmacy providers and PBMs will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and PBM services in the future, and the effect of this development on the business of the Company cannot be predicted at this time. The industries in which we operate are extremely competitive and competition could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Each of the retail pharmacy business and the PBM business currently operates in a highly competitive environment. As a pharmacy retailer, we compete with other drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, Internet companies and retail health clinics, as well as other mail order pharmacies and PBMs. In that regard, many pharmacy benefit plans have implemented plan designs that mandate or provide incentives to fill maintenance medications through mail order pharmacies. To the extent this trend continues, our retail pharmacy business could be adversely affected (although the effect of this would likely be mitigated by an increase in our own mail order business). In addition, some of these competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. Competition may also come from other sources in the future. As a result, competition could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Competitors in the PBM industry include large national PBM companies, such as Medco Health Solutions, Inc. and Express Scripts, Inc., as well as many local or regional PBMs. In addition, there are several large health insurers and managed care plans (e.g., UnitedHealthcare, Wellpoint, Aetna, CIGNA) and retail pharmacies (e.g., Walgreens) which have their own PBM capabilities as well as several other national and regional companies that provide some or all of the same services. Some of these competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we, even if the anticipated benefits of our merger are realized in full, may not be able to offer. In addition, competition may also come from other sources in the future. As a result, competition could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. The PBM business and retail drugstore business are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. See “Business – Government Regulation of Health Care Matters.” Changes in these regulations may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including, but not limited to: imposition of civil or criminal penalties; suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications or approvals; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; or loss of licensure. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: the laws and regulations described in the Government Regulation of Health Care Matters section; accounting standards; tax laws and regulations; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management 21 Table of Contents and disposal of, hazardous substances; and regulations of the FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products that we sell. In that regard, our business, financial position and results of operations could be affected by one or more of the following: • federal and state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, management, dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services, whether at retail or mail, and applicable licensing requirements; • the effect of the expiration of patents covering brand name drugs and the introduction of generic products; • the frequency and rate of approvals by the FDA of new brand named and generic drugs, or of over-the-counter status for brand name drugs; • FDA regulation affecting the retail or PBM industry; • rules and regulations issued pursuant to the HIPAA; and other federal and state laws affecting the use, disclosure and transmission of health information, such as state security breach laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of prescriber information; • administration of the Medicare Drug Benefit, including legislative changes and/or CMS rulemaking and interpretation; • government regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of formularies and drug lists; • state laws and regulations establishing or changing prompt payment requirements for payments to retail pharmacies; • impact of network access (any willing provider) legislation on ability to manage pharmacy networks; • managed care reform and plan design legislation; • insurance licensing and other insurance regulatory requirements applicable to offering a PDP in connection with the Medicare Drug Benefit; and • direct regulation of pharmacies or PBMs by regulatory and quasi-regulatory bodies. Risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. Pharmacy services and retail pharmacy are highly regulated and litigious industries. Our Company is currently subject to various litigation matters and legal proceedings. Resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As such we refer you to Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for additional information. Efforts to reform the U.S. health care system may adversely affect our financial performance Congress periodically considers proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. These proposals may increase government involvement in health care and regulation of PBM or pharmacy services, or otherwise change the way the combined company or its clients do business. Health plan sponsors may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of cost control mechanisms and related services that the combined company would provide. The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on its retail and pharmacy services businesses. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the health care system that the Company cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect the combined company’s consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. The foregoing is not a comprehensive listing and there can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting the business. As such, we refer you to the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which includes our “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the end of such section, on pages 18 through 36 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, which section is incorporated by reference. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC Staff Comments. 22 Table of Contents 