Risk Factors Forward-Looking Information Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Action of 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. The Act was designed to encourage companies to provide prospective information about them without fear of litigation. The prospective information must be identified as forward-looking and must be accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the statements. The statements about our business, plans, strategies, intentions, expectations and prospects contained throughout this document are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially from those predicted as of the date of this report in the forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. In addition, past financial performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical performance to anticipate results or future period trends. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. 19 Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock or our convertible notes could decline. You should consider the following risks before deciding to invest in our common stock or convertible notes. Significant product liability claims or product recalls may force us to pay substantial damage awards and other expenses that could exceed our accruals and insurance coverages. The manufacture and sale of medical devices exposes us to significant risk of product liability claims. In the past, and currently, we have had a number of product liability claims relating to our products, and we may be subject to additional product liability claims in the future, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could suffer. Some manufacturers that suffered such claims in the past have been forced to cease operations or even to declare bankruptcy. Additionally, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues, or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products and could result in exposure to additional product liability claims. We are subject to substantial government regulation, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development activities, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities, are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the U.S. and abroad. Most of the medical devices we develop must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. Certain of our products are required to undergo review by a panel of outside experts selected by the FDA, which makes a recommendation to the FDA as to whether the product(s) should or should not be approved. This process makes it potentially longer, more difficult and/or more costly to bring our products to market, and we cannot guarantee that any of our unapproved products will be approved or how long it may take for any one particular product to be approved. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of devices for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, record-keeping, and advertising and marketing procedures. If we do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of clinical trials, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Delays in, withdrawal, or rejection of the FDA or other government entity approval(s) of our products may also adversely affect our business. Such delays, withdrawals, or rejections may be encountered due to, among other reasons, government or regulatory delays, lack of demonstrated safety or efficacy during clinical trials, safety issues, manufacturing issues, slower than expected rate of patient recruitment for clinical trials, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy or requirements in the U.S. and abroad. In the U.S., there has been a continuing trend toward more stringent FDA requirements in the areas of product approval and enforcement, causing medical device manufacturers to experience longer research and development timelines, longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty, and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that we may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, stringent post-marketing requirements, or may prevent us from broadening the uses of our current products for different applications. In addition, to the extent permissible by law, we may not receive FDA approval to export our products in the future, and countries to which products are to be exported may not approve them for import. 20 Our manufacturing facilities also are subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will be scrutinized more strictly. A governmental authority may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and/or foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of our products or facilities may result in restrictions on the product or the facility, including, but not limited to, product recalls, withdrawal of the product from the market or other enforcement actions. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that, if implemented, could alter the review and approval process relating to medical devices, or related the sale of our products. It is possible that the FDA or other governmental authorities will issue additional regulations, which could further reduce or restrict the sales of our presently marketed products or products under development. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our current and/or future products, or that restrict the manner by which we may sell our products, could make it more difficult and/or costly to obtain approval for new products, and/or to produce, market, and distribute existing products. If we are unable to continue to develop and commercialize new technologies and products, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products or our products could become obsolete. The medical device industry is highly competitive and is subject to significant and rapid technological change. We believe that our ability to develop or acquire new technologies is crucial to our success. We are continually engaged in product research and development, improvement programs, and required clinical studies to develop new technologies and to maintain and improve our competitive position. Any significant delays in the above or termination or failure of our clinical trials would materially and adversely affect our research, development and commercialization timelines. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in enhancing existing products, or in developing or acquiring new products or technologies that will timely achieve regulatory approval or success in the marketplace. There is also a risk that our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community generally. The degree of market acceptance of any medical device or other product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy, cost-effectiveness, potential advantages over alternative products, user/patient acceptance, and our marketing and distribution capabilities. Physicians will not recommend our products if clinical and/or other data and/or other factors do not demonstrate their safety and efficacy compared to other competing products, or if our products do not best meet the particular needs of the individual patient. Our products also compete with a number of other similar medical products manufactured by major companies, and may also compete with new products currently under development by major companies and others. On January 8, 2004, the FDA released a "Draft Guidance for Saline, Silicone Gel, and Alternative Breast Implants." This new draft guidance has additional requirements from the FDA's previously issued guidance document dated February 2003. We completed our pre-market approval ("PMA") application to the FDA for our silicone gel-filled implants for breast augmentation, reconstruction and revision in December 2003, using the February 2003 guidance document previously released by the FDA. The Agency indicated that our PMA "is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review and is, therefore, suitable for filing." In August 2004, we amended our PMA based on the January 2004 revised (new) FDA draft guidance and responded to other issues raised by the FDA. We continue to address the Agency's questions, and the FDA review and approval process may require additional substantial time and expense, with no assurances of success. On April 11-13, 2005, an advisory panel composed of outside experts selected by the FDA met to consider questions presented to it by the FDA regarding our and our competitor's PMA submissions and to make a recommendation to the Agency regarding whether the PMA applications should be approved. The panel recommended approval of our PMA submission to the FDA, with conditions. The FDA must deliberate on the recommendations of the panel. We cannot predict the outcome of this review. The FDA may not agree or follow the panel's recommendation. The FDA by itself and based on the panel recommendations could recommend additional post-approval conditions or requirements that could impact our sales and earnings, depending on the scope and complexity of the requirements. Further change in FDA regulatory requirements, including those implemented through new or revised FDA guidance, (such as that announced on January 8, 2004 by the FDA), may delay or may otherwise adversely affect our pending PMA application as well as its review or approval by the FDA. A delay, denial, or "not approvable" response by the FDA would have a material adverse effect on our commercialization timelines and competitive position, and ultimately our revenue and operating results. If our competitor gains FDA approval to market its silicone gel-filled breast implant products before we do, our competitive position will likely suffer. If our new products do not achieve significant market acceptance, or if our current products are not able to continue competing successfully in the changing market, our sales and earnings may not grow as much as expected, or may even decline. 21 We also have two pending applications for Medical Device Licenses in Canada for our silicone gel-filled breast implants. An expert advisory panel convened by the Canadian government on March 22, 2005 to review our pending application for Medical Device Licenses. We have been notified of Health Canada's desire to hold a public forum on these devices sometime later this year. We cannot predict the timing or the outcome of this review, nor determine when or if Health Canada will approve our product application. In addition, any approval could be granted with stringent post-marketing requirements that may impact our sales and earnings, depending on the scope and complexity of such requirements. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw products. Physicians and potential patients may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products, including our breast and other implants, whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. Negative publicity-whether accurate or inaccurate-concerning our products could reduce market or governmental acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand or product withdrawal. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. If changes in the economy and consumer spending reduce consumer demand for our products, our sales and profitability could suffer. Certain elective procedures, such as breast augmentation, body contouring, and in some cases surgical treatment for male impotence are typically not covered by insurance. Adverse changes in the economy may cause consumers to reassess their spending choices and reduce the demand for these surgeries and could have an adverse effect on consumer spending. This shift could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. If we are unable to implement new information technology systems, our ability to manufacture and sell products, maintain regulatory compliance and manage and report our business activities may be impaired, delayed or diminished, which would cause substantial business interruption and loss of sales, customers and profits. We recently implemented an enterprise resource planning system at our major locations that will be our primary business management system. We intend to continue to implement the system for nearly all of our businesses worldwide. Many other companies have had severe problems with computer system implementations of this nature and scope. We are using a controlled project plan and we believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the projects to ensure its successful implementation; however there is no assurance that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. We are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any failure or delay in the system implementation would cause a substantial interruption to our business, additional expense, and loss of sales, customers, and profits. If we are unable to acquire companies, businesses or technologies as part of our growth strategy or to successfully integrate past acquisitions, our growth, sales and profitability could suffer. A significant portion of our recent growth has been the result of acquisitions of other companies, businesses and technologies. We intend to continue to acquire other businesses and technologies to facilitate our future business strategies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with terms favorable to us. Further, once a business is acquired, any inability to integrate the business, failure to retain and develop its workforce, or establish and maintain appropriate communications, performance expectations, regulatory compliance procedures, accounting controls, and reporting procedures could adversely affect our future sales and earnings. 22 State legislatures and taxing authorities may create new laws or change their interpretation of existing state and local tax laws that may affect future product demand or create unforeseen tax liabilities. If any state legislature or other government authority creates new laws to assess sales taxes on medical procedures determined by them to be cosmetic, our physician and patient customers may have to pay more for our products and future demand may decrease. In addition, if taxing authorities determine that our products are cosmetic and thus taxable based on their interpretations of existing tax laws or that our products are otherwise taxable, they may disallow currently available exemptions related to medical products and procedures. Such taxing authorities may then determine that we owe additional taxes related to product sales from prior periods. These determinations would have a negative effect on our results of operations. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products or technologies, others could compete against us more directly, which would hurt our profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks or licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty; thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide us with adequate protection against competitors. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection of these rights, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide sufficient protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary rights could seriously impair our competitive position. If third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from marketing our products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. However, regardless of our intent, our technologies may infringe upon the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face expensive litigation and may be prevented from selling existing products and pursuing product development or commercialization. We depend on single and sole source suppliers for certain raw materials and licensed or manufactured products and the loss of any supplier could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell many of our products. We currently rely on single or sole source suppliers for raw materials used in many of our products, including silicone. In the event that they cannot meet our requirements, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain a sufficient amount of quality raw materials in a timely manner. We also depend on third party manufacturers for components and licensed products, including our women's health products and our palladium brachytherapy seed product. If there is a disruption in the supply of these products, our sales and profitability would be adversely affected. 23 Our international business exposes us to a number of risks. More than one-third of our sales are derived from international operations. Accordingly, any material decrease in foreign sales would have a material adverse effect on our overall sales and profitability. Most of our international sales are denominated in Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or U.S. Dollars. Depreciation or devaluation of the local currencies of countries where we sell our products may result in our products becoming more expensive in local currency terms, thus reducing demand, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our operations and financial results may be adversely affected by other international factors, including: • foreign government regulation of medical products; • product liability, intellectual property and other claims; • new export license requirements; • political or economic instability in our target markets; • trade restrictions; • changes in tax laws and tariffs; • managing foreign distributors and manufacturers; • managing foreign branch offices and staffing; • competition; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Health care reimbursement or reform legislation could materially affect our business. If any national health care reform or other legislation or regulations are passed that imposes limits on the amount of reimbursement for certain types of medical procedures or products, or on the number or type of medical procedures that may be performed, or that has the effect of restricting a physician's ability to select specific products for use in patient procedures, such changes could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. Our revenues depend largely on U.S. and foreign government health care programs and private health insurers reimbursing patients' medical expenses. Physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers may not purchase our products if they do not receive satisfactory reimbursement from these third-party payers for the cost of procedures using our products. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals to implement greater governmental control over the healthcare industry and its related costs. These proposals create uncertainty as to the future of our industry and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital or to form collaborations. In a number of foreign markets, the pricing and profitability of healthcare products are subject to governmental influence or control. In addition, legislation or regulations that impose restrictions on the price that may be charged for healthcare products or medical devices may adversely affect our sales and profitability. If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant financial loss. Our manufacturing and research activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and any applicable insurance coverage. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue or expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results and require restatement of previously issued results for retroactive application of the new accounting standard. This was evidenced by the adoption of EITF 04-8 which was adopted in the quarter ended December 2004, resulting in the restatement of fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share and weighted average shares outstanding. 24 Hedging transactions and other transactions may affect the value of the notes. In connection with the original issuance of our 2¾% convertible subordinated notes in December 2003, we entered into convertible note hedge and warrant transactions with respect to our common stock, with Credit Suisse First Boston International, an affiliate of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, the initial purchaser of the notes, to reduce the potential dilution from conversion of the notes up to a price of our common stock of approximately $39.43 per share. In connection with these hedging arrangements, Credit Suisse First Boston International, and/or its affiliates, has taken and, we expect, will continue to take positions in our common stock in secondary market transactions and/or will enter into various derivative transactions. Such hedging arrangements could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling in our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management, and could result in significant monetary or equitable judgments against us. For example, lawsuits by employees, patients, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners, distributors, stockholders, or competitors could be very costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. Our publicly-filed SEC reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies public filings, and comprehensive reviews by the SEC of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews often occur at the time companies file registration statements such as the registration statement we filed in connection with our convertible note offering, but reviews may also be initiated at any time by the SEC. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our securities, including our common stock or our convertible notes. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially, and could precipitate unexpected movement in the price of our common stock and convertible notes. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "MNT." On March 31, 2005, the closing price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $32.10 per share. On December 22, 2003, we completed an offering of $150 million of convertible subordinated notes ("notes") due January 1, 2024 pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. The notes bear interest at 2¾% per annum, are convertible into shares of our common stock at an adjusted conversion price of $29.25 per share and are subordinated to all existing and future senior debt. The market prices of our stock and convertible securities are subject to significant fluctuations in response to the factors set forth above and other factors, many of which are beyond our control including such factors as changes in pricing policies by our competitors and the timing of significant orders and shipments. Such factors, as well as other economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our securities, including our common stock and convertible notes. There could be periods in which we experience shortfalls in revenue and/or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors, which could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our securities, including our common stock and our convertible notes. 25 