ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuation; period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful and you should not rely on them as indications of our future performance. Our results of operations have historically been and are subject to continued substantial annual and quarterly fluctuations. The causes of these fluctuations include, among other things: • the volume of sales of our products under our collaborative marketing arrangements; • the cost of development of our products; • the mix of products we sell; • the mix of distribution channels we use; • the timing of our new product releases and those of our competitors; • fluctuations in the computer and communications hardware and software marketplace; and • general economic conditions. We cannot assure that the level of revenues and gross profit, if any, that we achieve in any particular fiscal period will not be significantly lower than in other fiscal periods. Our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were approximately $3.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2012 was approximately $1.5 million, or $0.02 per share on a basic and diluted basis, versus a net loss of approximately $516,000, or $0.01 per share on a basic and diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2011. We continue to explore opportunities to grow sales in other business areas. We are also examining additional opportunities for cost reduction, production efficiencies and further diversification of our business. If we fail to maintain access to funds sufficient to meet our operating needs, we may be required to significantly reduce, sell, or refocus our operations, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely effected. In order to be a viable entity we need to maintain and increase profitable operations. To continue to achieve profitable operations we need to increase current net revenues and continue to look for ways to control expenses. We might also need to sell additional assets or raise capital as a means of funding continued operations. In recent years, we have sustained significant operating losses. We may have to raise additional capital from external sources. These sources may include private or public financings through the issuance of debt, convertible debt or equity, or collaborative arrangements. Such additional capital and funding may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, we may only be able to obtain additional capital or funds through arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to our products, technologies or potential markets, in whole or in part, or result in our sale. As a result of the past few years of performance, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to continue our operations at least through December 2013, 6 provided our net revenues do not decline and our operating expenses do not increase. Although we are always attempting to reduce or limit our expenses and capital expenditures, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in generating positive cash flows or obtaining access to additional sources of funding in amounts necessary to continue our operations. Failure to maintain sufficient access to funding may also result in our inability to continue operations. Shares Eligible For Future Sale May Have An Adverse Effect On Market Price; Andrea Shareholders May Experience Substantial Dilution. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could have the effect of depressing the prevailing market price of our common stock. Of the 200,000,000 shares of common stock presently authorized, 63,721,035 were outstanding as of March 22, 2013. The number of shares outstanding does not include an aggregate of 27,244,491 shares of common stock that are issuable. This number of issuable common shares is equal to approximately 43% of the 63,721,035 outstanding shares. These issuable common shares are comprised of: a) 17,205,821 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding awards granted under our 1998 Stock Plan and 2006 Stock Plan; b) 4,386,436 shares reserved for future grants under our 2006 Stock Plan; c) 2,023,658 shares of common stock that are issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock; and d) 3,628,576 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock. Conversions of our Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock may result in substantial dilution to other holders of our common stock. As of March 22, 2013, we had 44.231432 shares of Series C Preferred Stock and 907,144 shares of Series D Preferred Stock outstanding. The issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock is limited to that amount which, after giving effect to the conversion, would cause the holder not to beneficially own in excess of 4.99% or, together with other shares beneficially owned during the 60 day period prior to such conversion, not to beneficially own in excess of 9.99% of the outstanding shares of common stock. The issuance of common stock upon conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock also is limited to that amount which, after giving effect to the conversion, would cause the holder not to beneficially own in excess of 4.99% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, except that each holder has a right to terminate such limitation upon 61 days notice to us. Beneficial ownership for purposes of calculation of such percentage limitations does not include shares whose acquisition is subject to similar limitations. If all shares of the Series C and Series D Preferred Stock, which are outstanding to be issued, are assumed to be converted into or exercised for shares of common stock, the number of new shares of common stock required to be issued as a result would aggregate 5,652,234 shares, which is equal to approximately 9% of the 63,721,035 outstanding shares. Short sales of our common stock may be attracted by or accompany conversions of Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock, which sales may cause downward pressure upon the price of our common stock. Short sales of our common stock may be attracted by or accompany the sale of converted common stock, which in the aggregate could cause downward pressure upon the price of the common stock, regardless of our operating results, thereby attracting additional short sales of the common stock. If we fail to commercialize and fully market our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software products, or continue to develop, and not fully market, Andrea Anti-Noise products, our net revenues may not increase at a high enough rate to improve our results of operations or may not increase at all. Our business, results of operations and financial condition depend on the successful commercialization of our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software products and technologies and continued development of our Andrea Anti-Noise products. We introduced our first Andrea DSP Microphone products in 1998 and we continued to introduce complementary products and technologies over the last several years. For both product lines, we primarily target the desktop computer market, the audio and video conferencing markets and the market for in-vehicle computing, among others. The success of these products is subject to the risks frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of product commercialization, particularly companies in the computing and communications industries. If we are unable to obtain market acceptance of Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software products and technologies, or if market acceptance of these products and technologies occurs at a slow rate, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We, and our competitors, are focused on developing and commercializing products and technologies that enhance the use of voice, particularly in noisy environments, for a broad range of computer and communications applications. These products and technologies have been rapidly evolving and the number of our competitors has grown, but the markets for these products and technologies are subject to a high level of uncertainty and have been developing slowly. We, alone or together with our industry, may be unsuccessful in obtaining market acceptance of these products and technologies. 7 If we fail to develop and successfully introduce new products and technologies in response to competition and evolving technology, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain current customers. The markets in which we sell our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software and Andrea Anti-Noise products are highly competitive. We may not compete successfully with any of our competitors. Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technology, research and development, marketing, technical support and other resources than we do. Consequently, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, marketing, and sale of their products than we can. One or more of these competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies could render our products obsolete and unmarketable and could exert price pressures on existing products. We are currently engaged in the development of digital signal processing products and technologies for the voice, speech and natural language interface markets. We may not succeed in developing these new digital signal processing products and technologies, and any of these new digital signal processing products or technologies may not gain market acceptance. Further, the markets for our products and technologies are characterized by evolving industry and government standards and specifications that may require us to devote substantial time and expense to adapt our products and technologies. For example, certain of our Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software and Andrea Anti-Noise products are subject to the Federal Communications Commission requirements. We may not successfully anticipate and adapt our products and technologies in a cost effective and timely manner to changes in technology and industry standards or to introductions of new products and technologies by others that render our then existing products and technologies obsolete. If our marketing collaborators do not effectively market their products that include or incorporate our products, our sales growth will be adversely affected. We have entered into collaborative and distribution arrangements with software publishers and computer hardware manufacturers relating to the marketing and sale of Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software products through inclusion or incorporation with the products of our collaborators. Our success is dependent to a substantial degree on the efforts of these collaborators to market their products that include or incorporate our products. Our collaborators may not successfully market these products. In addition, our collaborators generally are not contractually obligated to any minimum level of sales of our products or technologies, and we have no control over their marketing efforts. Furthermore, our collaborators may develop their own microphone, earphone or headset products that may replace our products or technologies or to which they may give higher priority. Shortages of, or interruptions in, the supply of more specialized components for our products could have a material adverse effect on our sales of these products. The majority of our assembly operations are fulfilled by subcontractors (primarily in the Far East) using purchased components. Some specialized components for the Andrea DSP Microphone and Audio Software products and Andrea Anti-Noise products, such as microphones and digital signal processing boards, are available from a limited number of suppliers (and in some cases foreign) and subject to long lead times. We may not be able to continue to obtain sufficient supplies of these more specialized components, particularly if the sales of our products increase substantially or market demand for these components otherwise increases. If our subcontractors fail to meet our production and shipment schedules, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of the Company’s components and products are manufactured in whole or in part by a few third-party manufacturers. Many of these manufacturers are located outside of the United States. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’s direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or the Company’s flexibility to respond to changing conditions. If manufacturing or logistics in these locations is disrupted for any reason, including but not limited to, natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, the Company’s consolidated financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to compete may be limited by our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property or by patents granted to third parties. We rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, and nondisclosure agreements with our employees, independent contractors, licensees and potential licensees, limited access to and dissemination of our proprietary information, and other measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. However, the steps that we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent its misappropriation or circumvention. In addition, numerous patents have been 8 granted to other parties in the fields of noise cancellation, noise reduction, computer voice recognition, digital signal processing and related subject matter. We expect that products in these fields will increasingly be subject to claims under these patents as the numbers of products and competitors in these fields grow and the functionality of products overlap. Claims of this type could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and market our products or to develop new products and technologies, because the parties holding these patents may refuse to grant licenses or only grant licenses with onerous royalty requirements. Moreover, the laws of other countries do not protect our proprietary rights to our technologies to the same extent as the laws of the United States. An unfavorable ruling in any current litigation proceeding or future proceeding may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time we are subject to litigation incidental to our business. For example, we are subject to the risk of adverse claims, interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, oppositions to patent applications outside the United States, and litigation alleging infringement of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation to establish the validity of patents, to assert infringement claims against others, and to defend against patent infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome is in our favor. Changes in economic and political conditions outside the United States could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We generate revenues from regions outside the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, net revenues from sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 17% and 16%, respectively, of our net revenues. International sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • trade restrictions in the form of license requirements; • restrictions on exports and imports and other government controls; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • problems in establishing and managing distributor relationships; • general economic conditions; and • political and economic instability or conflict. To date, we have invoiced our international revenues in U.S. dollars, and have not engaged in any foreign exchange or hedging transactions. We may not be able to continue to invoice all of our revenues in U.S. dollars in order to avoid engaging in foreign exchange or hedging transactions. If we are required to invoice any material amount of international revenues in non-U.S. currencies, fluctuations in the value of non-U.S. currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or require us to incur hedging costs to counter such fluctuations. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and other personnel necessary for our business, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified managers and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. We have significantly less financial resources than most of our competitors which limits our ability to implement new products or enhancements to our current products and may require us to implement future restructuring plans, which could adversely affect our future sales and financial condition. Financial resource constraints could limit our ability to execute our product strategy or require us to implement restructuring plans, particularly if we are unable to generate cash from operations or obtain additional sources of financing. Any future restructuring actions may slow our development of new or enhanced products by limiting our research and development and engineering activities. Our cash balances are also lower than those of our competitors, which may limit our ability to develop competitive new products on a timely basis. If we are unable to successfully introduce new or enhanced products, our sales and financial condition will be adversely affected. 9 A significant amount of our business involves licensing our intellectual property, a strategy that increases business risk and volatility. We have licensed certain of our intellectual properties to third parties and may seek to enter into additional license arrangements in the future. We cannot assure you, however, that others will be interested in licensing our intellectual property on commercially favorable terms or at all. We also cannot ensure that licensees will honor agreed-upon market restrictions, not infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property or maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 