ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors when investing in our securities. In addition to the risks described below, there may be additional risks that we have not yet perceived or that we currently believe are immaterial. 10Advertising represents the largest portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2013, 56 percent of our revenues were derived from advertising. Advertising constitutes almost half of our national media revenues and approximately 80 percent of our local media revenues. Demand for advertising is highly dependent upon the strength of the U.S. economy. During an economic downturn, demand for advertising may decrease. The growth in alternative forms of media, for example the Internet, has increased the competition for advertising dollars, which could in turn reduce expenditures for magazine and television advertising or suppress advertising rates.Technology in the media industry continues to evolve rapidly. Advances in technology have led to an increasing number of alternative methods for the delivery of content and have driven consumer demand and expectations in unanticipated directions. If we are unable to exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors or adapt to new distribution methods that provide optimal user experiences, our business, financial condition, and prospects may be adversely affected. Technology developments also pose other challenges that could adversely affect our revenues and competitive position. New delivery platforms may lead to pricing restrictions, the loss of distribution control, and the loss of a direct relationship with consumers. We may also be adversely affected if the use of technology developed to block the display of advertising on websites proliferates.Circulation revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues. Magazine circulation is another significant source of revenue, representing 22 percent of total revenues and 29 percent of national media revenues. Preserving circulation is critical for maintaining advertising sales. Magazines face increasing competition from alternative forms of media and entertainment. As a result, sales of magazines through subscriptions and at the newsstand could decline. As publishers compete for subscribers, subscription prices could decrease and marketing expenditures may increase.Client relationships are important to our brand licensing and consumer relationship marketing businesses. Our ability to maintain existing client relationships and generate new clients depends significantly on the quality of our products and services, our reputation, and the continuity of Company and client personnel. Dissatisfaction with our products and services, damage to our reputation, or changes in key personnel could result in a loss of business.Paper and postage prices are difficult to predict and control. Paper and postage represent significant components of our total cost to produce, distribute, and market our printed products. In fiscal 2013, these expenses accounted for 23 percent of national media's operating costs. Paper is a commodity and its price has been subject to significant volatility. All of our paper supply contracts currently provide for price adjustments based on prevailing market prices; however, we historically have been able to realize favorable paper pricing through volume discounts. The USPS distributes substantially all of our magazines and many of our marketing materials. Postal rates are dependent on the operating efficiency of the USPS and on legislative mandates imposed upon the USPS. Although we work with others in the industry and through trade organizations to encourage the USPS to implement efficiencies that will minimize rate increases, we cannot predict with certainty the magnitude of future price changes for paper and postage. Further, we may not be able to pass such increases on to our customers.World events may result in unexpected adverse operating results for our local media segment. Our local media results could be affected adversely by world events such as wars, political unrest, acts of terrorism, and natural disasters. Such events can result in significant declines in advertising revenues as the stations will not broadcast or will limit broadcasting of commercials during times of crisis. In addition, our stations may have higher newsgathering costs related to coverage of the events.Our local media operations are subject to FCC regulation. Our broadcasting stations operate under licenses granted by the FCC. The FCC regulates many aspects of television station operations including employment practices, political advertising, indecency and obscenity, programming, signal carriage, and various technical matters. Violations of these regulations could result in penalties and fines. Changes in these regulations could impact the results of our operations. The FCC also regulates the ownership of television stations. Changes in the ownership rules could affect our ability to consummate future transactions. Details regarding regulation and its impact on our local media operations are provided in Item 1-Business beginning on page 8. 11Loss of or changes in affiliation agreements could adversely affect operating results for our local media segment. Our broadcast television station business owns and operates 12 television stations. Six are affiliated with CBS, three with Fox, two with MyNetworkTV, and one with NBC. These television networks produce and distribute programming in exchange for each of our stations' commitment to air the programming at specified times and for commercial announcement time during the programming. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the affiliate network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and/or which may not be as attractive to our audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. The affiliation agreement for our NBC affiliate expires at the end of December 2013. Our two MyNetworkTV affiliation agreements expire in September 2014. Our CBS affiliation agreements expire in April 2016 and August 2017 and our Fox affiliation agreements expire in December 2017. In conjunction with these renegotiations, the television networks sought arrangements with their affiliates to change the structure of network compensation, including payment from affiliates for the network’s programming. Programming fees paid to CBS and Fox have increased significantly in fiscal 2013. These payments are in essence a portion of the retransmission fees that Meredith receives from cable, satellite, and telecommunications firms, which pay Meredith to carry its local television programming in their markets.Acquisitions pose inherent financial and other risks and challenges. As a part of our strategic plan, we have acquired businesses and we expect to continue acquiring businesses in the future. These acquisitions can involve a number of risks and challenges, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Such risks and challenges include underperformance relative to our expectations and the price paid for the acquisition; unanticipated demands on our management and operational resources; difficulty in integrating personnel, operations, and systems; retention of customers of the combined businesses; assumption of contingent liabilities; and acquisition-related earnings charges. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record impairment charges. Our ability to continue to make acquisitions will depend upon our success at identifying suitable targets, which requires substantial judgment in assessing their values, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability, as well as the availability of suitable candidates at acceptable prices, and whether restrictions are imposed by regulations. Moreover, competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant, particularly in the fields of broadcast stations and interactive media. Even if successfully negotiated, closed, and integrated, certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy and may fall short of expected return on investment targets.Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is possible, depending upon future operating results and the value of the Company's stock. We test our goodwill and intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of every fiscal year and on an interim basis if indicators of impairment exist. Factors which influence the evaluation include the Company's stock price and expected future operating results. If the carrying value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset is no longer deemed to be recoverable, a potentially material impairment charge could be incurred. Although these charges would be non-cash in nature and would not affect the Company's operations or cash flow, they would adversely affect stockholders' equity and reported results of operations in the period charged.We have two classes of stock with different voting rights. We have two classes of stock: common stock and Class B stock. Holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share and account for approximately 30 percent of the voting power. Holders of Class B stock are entitled to ten votes per share and account for the remaining 70 percent of the voting power. There are restrictions on who can own Class B stock. The majority of Class B shares are held by members of Meredith's founding family. Control by a limited number of holders may make the Company a less attractive takeover target, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This voting control also prevents other shareholders from exercising significant influence over certain of the Company's business decisions. The preceding risk factors should not be construed as a complete list of factors thatmay affect our future operations and financial results. 12ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.