Item 1A. Risk Factors: Any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not identified in this or other SEC filings, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Economic conditions in the markets that we serve appear to be improving, but we do not know the extent or duration of this. Our operating results have been challenged by the worldwide economic slowdown. If the markets that we serve do not improve or if they worsen, this could negatively impact our business, which could result in: · reduced demand for our products, especially for those offered by our Product Recovery/Pollution Control Technologies reporting segment, which include large dollar projects more likely to be affected by economic conditions; · increased price competition for our products; · increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; · increased risk in the collectability of cash from our customers; · increased risk of the impairment of goodwill of our Flex-Kleen business; · increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; and · higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. We sell our products in highly competitive markets, which puts pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. The markets for our products are fragmented and highly competitive. We compete against a very diverse number of companies across our many markets. Depending upon the market, our competitors include large and well-established national and global companies; regional and local companies; low cost replicators of spare parts; and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. We compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability, with price competition tending to be more significant for sales to original equipment manufacturers. Some of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. No assurances can be made that in the short-term our earnings will not be adversely impacted by these investments or that our investments will produce the intended results. If we do not compete successfully, our business, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Beginning in 2002, the Company began to be named in asbestos-related lawsuits filed against a large number of industrial companies including, in particular, those in the pump and fluid handling industries. In management’s opinion, the complaints typically have been vague, general and speculative, alleging that the Company, along with the numerous other defendants, sold unidentified asbestos-containing products and engaged in other related actions which caused injuries (including death) and loss to the plaintiffs. Counsel has advised that more recent cases typically allege more serious claims of mesothelioma. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the cases which have been filed and that none of its products were a cause of any injury or loss to any of the plaintiffs. The Company’s insurers have hired attorneys who, together with the Company, are vigorously defending these cases. The Company has been dismissed from or settled a large number of these cases. The sum total of all payments through March 17, 2011 to settle cases involving asbestos-related claims was $616,500, all of which has been paid by the Company’s insurers including legal expenses, except for corporate counsel expenses, with an average cost per settled claim, excluding legal fees, of approximately $32,500. As of March 17, 2011, there were a total of 93 cases pending against the Company (with a majority of those cases pending in New York, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Mississippi), as compared with 106 cases that were pending as of January 31, 2010. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, 59 new cases were filed against the Company, and the Company was dismissed from 74 cases and settled two cases. Most of the pending cases have not advanced beyond the early stages of discovery, although a number of cases are on schedules leading to, or are scheduled for trial. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, a rehabilitation order was entered against one of our insurers, based upon its alleged insolvency. It appears that our remaining insurers have assumed prospectively the share of the defense and indemnity obligations that this one insurer had agreed to assume, and despite the alleged insolvency of this one insurer, the Company believes that its insurance coverage is adequate for the cases currently pending against the Company and for 8 Index the foreseeable future, assuming a continuation of the current volume, nature of cases and settlement amounts; however, the Company has no control over the number and nature of cases that are filed against it, nor as to the financial health of its insurers or their position as to coverage. The Company also presently believes that none of the pending cases will have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense, which can affect our earnings results as well as our cash flows. We maintain defined benefit pension plans that we must fund despite the freezing of the accrual of future benefits for our salaried and non-union hourly employees, effective December 31, 2006, and our union hourly employees, effective December 31, 2008. In these plans’ fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, we contributed approximately $1.6 million. As of January 31, 2011, our unfunded pension liability was approximately $5.9 million. The amount of this pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans such as ours that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. Changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense. For our fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, we reported expense from our defined benefit plans totaling $0.6 million as compared to expense for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 totaling $0.7 million. If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings and performance by our Flex-Kleen business unit must continue to improve to avoid an impairment charge. We carry approximately $20.8 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, or approximately 19% of our total assets. Approximately $11.1 million of the $20.8 million relates to our Flex-Kleen business. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Flex-Kleen, which initially performed well after being acquired by Met-Pro, thereafter had several years of declining performance which we attributed primarily to a general weakness in its served markets, followed by improved performance in the fiscal years ended January 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. In the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, Flex-Kleen’s net sales and operating profit were below the projections in our impairment model. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, Flex-Kleen’s net sales were below the projections in our impairment model but operating profit was slightly above the projections in our impairment model. We believe the improvement in operating profit from the prior year was due to an improvement in global business and economic conditions. In each of the last several fiscal years, including the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, we performed an impairment analysis of the $11.1 million of goodwill that the Company carries for Flex-Kleen and concluded that no impairment has occurred. The carrying value of Flex-Kleen as of January 31, 2011 and 2010 amounted to $9.1 million and $9.5 million, respectively. The fair value of Flex-Kleen as of January 31, 2011 and 2010 totaled $12.3 million and $12.1 million, respectively. As a result, the fair value exceeded the carrying amount, including goodwill, by $3.2 million and $2.6 million at January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Therefore, as of January 31, 2011 (as well as the same point in the prior fiscal year), Flex-Kleen’s goodwill was not impaired. Because of market conditions and/or potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Based on current projections, a one percent decrease in revenue growth, a one percent decrease in gross margin or a one percent increase in the weighted average cost of capital would reduce the fair value for Flex-Kleen by $1.9 million, $1.1 million, and $1.0 million, respectively. Additionally, the Company cannot predict the occurrence of unknown events that might adversely affect the reportable value of goodwill. Our impairment model provides that Flex-Kleen’s performance needs to continue to improve on an annual basis for a number of fiscal years in order for us not to be potentially required to write-off some or all of its goodwill. If in the future we determine that there has been an impairment of Flex-Kleen’s goodwill, we will be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings, to the extent of the impairment, during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined, which would have an adverse impact upon our results of operations and financial position. We anticipate that Flex-Kleen’s performance during the fiscal year beginning February 1, 2011 will be at a level that will not indicate impairment of its goodwill, but this expectation is a forward-looking statement where the actual results may not be as we presently anticipate. Please refer to page 24, “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates”, for additional information concerning goodwill impairment. 9 Index If we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. We purchase electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. The costs of raw materials and power have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. We believe we have improved our raw material purchasing practices over recent years with more centralized purchasing, which has decreased raw material costs. However, if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of raw materials to our customers, our operating margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may incur significant expense as a result of breach of contract, negligence, product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time we are exposed to breach of contract, negligence, product liability, warranty and other claims where our products and/or service cause, or are alleged to cause bodily injury and/or property damage and/or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, as a result of an actual or alleged design or manufacturing defect or other action or inaction or alleged action or inaction on our part. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability and negligence claims, we do not insure against all risks or possible claims, and/or the insurance that we purchase may not cover all claims or amounts found to be owing. In addition, these claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company. Warranty claims are not covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. Natural or man-made disasters could negatively affect our business. Future disasters caused by earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, terrorist attacks or other events, and any potential response by the U.S. government or military, could have a significant adverse effect on the general economic, market and political conditions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our business is sold internationally, we also manufacture outside the United States, and we plan to increase our international distribution and manufacturing of our products. These international activities subject us to additional business risks. In the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, 25.2% of our sales were to customers outside the United States, as compared with 24.5% in the prior fiscal year. As part of our business strategy, we intend to increase our international sales, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Conducting business outside of the United States subjects us to significant additional risks, including: · export and import restrictions, tax consequences and other trade barriers, · currency fluctuations, · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections, · economic and political instability, · foreign exchange controls that prohibit payment in U.S. dollars, and · increased complexity and costs of managing and staffing international operations. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others and we may be exposed to costly litigation. The products we sell are continually changing as a result of improved technology. Although we and our suppliers attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our products, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement by us, our suppliers or our distributors, of third parties’ patents, trade secrets, trademarks or copyrights. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to either enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us, or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products. We may increasingly be subject to infringement claims as we expand our product offerings. 10 Index Our ability to operate our Company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly research professionals, technical sales professionals and engineers. The loss of the services of any key employee or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Changes in accounting may affect our reported earnings. For many aspects of our business, United States generally accepted accounting principles are highly complex and require subjective judgments. Additionally, changes in these accounting principles, including their interpretation and application, could significantly change our reported earnings, adding significant volatility to our reported results without a comparable underlying change in our cash flows. Additional risks to the Company. The Company is subject to various risks occurring in the normal course of business. The Forward-Looking Statements; Factors That May Affect Future Results in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Report sets forth a list of risks, including those identified above, that may adversely affect the Company and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 11 Index 