Item 1A. Risk Factors: Any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not identified in this or other SEC filings, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to invest in our securities. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Economic conditions in the markets that we serve appear to be improving, but we do not know the extent or duration of this. Our operating results have been challenged by the worldwide economic slowdown. If the markets that we serve do not improve or if they worsen, this could negatively impact our business, which could result in: · reduced demand for our products, especially for those offered by our Product Recovery/Pollution Control Technologies reporting segment, which include large dollar projects more likely to be affected by economic conditions; · increased price competition for our products; · increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; · increased risk in the collectability of receivables from our customers; · increased risk of the impairment of goodwill of our Pristine Water Solutions and Flex-Kleen business units; · increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; and · higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. We sell our products in highly competitive markets, which put pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. The markets for our products are fragmented and highly competitive. We compete against a very diverse number of companies across our many markets. Depending upon the market, our competitors include large and well-established national and global companies; regional and local companies; low cost replicators of spare parts; and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. We compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability, with price competition tending to be more significant for sales to original equipment manufacturers. Some of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. No assurances can be made that in the short-term our earnings will not be adversely impacted by these investments or that our investments will produce the intended results. If we do not compete successfully, our business, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Beginning in 2002, the Company began to be named in asbestos-related lawsuits filed against a large number of industrial companies including, in particular, those in the pump and fluid handling industries. In management’s opinion, the complaints typically have been vague, general and speculative, alleging that the Company, along with the numerous other defendants, sold unidentified asbestos-containing products and engaged in other related actions which caused injuries (including death) and loss to the plaintiffs. Counsel has advised that more recent cases typically allege more serious claims of mesothelioma. The Company’s insurers have hired attorneys who, together with the Company, are vigorously defending these cases. Many cases have been dismissed after the plaintiff fails to produce evidence of exposure to the Company’s products. In those cases where evidence has been produced, the Company’s experience has been that the exposure levels are low and the Company’s position has been its products were not a cause of death, injury or loss. The Company has been dismissed from or settled a large number of these cases. Cumulative settlement payments through January 31, 2013 for cases involving asbestos-related claims were $740,000, which together with all legal fees other than corporate counsel expenses, have been paid by the Company’s insurers. The average cost per settled claim, excluding legal fees, was approximately $25,000. As of January 31, 2013 there were a total of 157 cases pending against the Company (with Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania and West Virginia having the largest number of cases), as compared with approximately 130 cases that were pending as of March 22, 2012. During the current fiscal year commencing February 1, 2012 through January 31, 2013, 59 new cases were filed against the Company, and the Company was dismissed from 33 cases and settled four cases. Most of the pending cases have not advanced beyond the early stages of discovery, although a number of cases are on schedules leading to, or are scheduled for trial. The Company also presently believes that none of the pending cases will have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 7 Index The Company believes that its insurance coverage is adequate for the cases currently pending against it and for the foreseeable future, assuming a continuation of the current volume, nature of cases, and settlement amounts. However, the Company has no control over the number and nature of cases that are filed against it, nor as to the financial health of its insurers or their position as to coverage. On April 27, 2011, a liquidation order was entered against Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, who had been providing defense and indemnity to the Company, and its affiliate, Centennial Insurance Company, who provided umbrella coverage to the Company, and while we have no information to suggest that any of our remaining insurers are at risk of insolvency, we cannot guarantee the solvency of our remaining insurers. The insolvency of any of our remaining insurers could have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense, which can affect our earnings results as well as our cash flows. We maintain defined benefit pension plans that we must fund despite the freezing of the accrual of future benefits for our salaried and non-union hourly employees, effective December 31, 2006, and our union hourly employees, effective December 31, 2008. In these plans’ fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, we contributed approximately $1.7 million. As of January 31, 2013, our unfunded pension liability was approximately $8.9 million as compared with $9.7 million at January 31, 2012. The amount of this pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans such as ours that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. It is possible that the discount rate used in fiscal year 2014 will be further reduced, resulting in an adverse impact upon the reported status of our unfunded pension liability. Changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets also can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense. For our fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, we reported expense from our defined benefit plans totaling $0.5 million as compared to expense for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 totaling $0.1 million. If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Performance by our Flex-Kleen and/or Pristine Water Solutions business units must continue to improve to avoid an impairment charge. We carry $20.8 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, or 17.9% of our total assets. Approximately $11.1 million and $3.3 million of the $20.8 million of goodwill relates to our Flex-Kleen and Pristine Water Solutions businesses, respectively. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. During the fiscal year 2013, there was a decline in net sales and operating profit of our Pristine Water Solutions business unit that we attribute to a number of factors including raw material price increases, weaknesses in Pristine Water Solutions’ principal market, the municipal market, increased price competition, product mix and inclement weather in certain geographic areas which affected product demand. The carrying value of Pristine Water Solutions as of January 31, 2013 and 2012 amounted to $4.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively.The fair value of Pristine Water Solutions as of January 31, 2013 and 2012 totaled $6.3 million and $5.9 million, respectively. As a result, the fair value exceeded the carrying amount, including goodwill, by $2.0 million and $1.3 million at January 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Because of market conditions and/or potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Based on current projections, a one percent decrease in revenue growth, a one percent decrease in gross margin or a one percent increase in the weighted average cost of capital would reduce the fair value for Pristine Water Solutions by $1.1 million, $0.5 million, and $0.4 million, respectively. Additionally, the Company cannot predict the occurrence of unknown events that might adversely affect the reportable value of goodwill related to Pristine Water Solutions. Flex-Kleen, which initially performed well after being acquired by Met-Pro, thereafter had several years of declining performance which we attributed primarily to a general weakness in its served markets. As of January 31, 2012, Flex-Kleen’s fair value exceeded its carrying amount but not by a significant amount. Due to improving performance during the year ended January 31, 2013, Flex-Kleen’s fair value increased and exceeded its carrying amount by a significant amount as of January 31, 2013. This improvement is attributable to general strengthening in the markets served by Flex-Kleen. Because of market conditions and/or potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in a write-down of goodwill that would consist of a non-cash charge that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the Company cannot predict the occurrence of unknown events that might adversely affect the reportable value of goodwill related to Flex-Kleen. 8 Index Our impairment models provide that Pristine Water Solutions’ and Flex-Kleen’s performance needs to continue to improve on an annual basis for a number of fiscal years in order for us not to be potentially required to write-off some or all of their goodwill. If in the future we determine that there has been an impairment of Pristine Water Solutions’ and/or Flex-Kleen’s goodwill, we will be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings, to the extent of the impairment, during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined, which would have an adverse impact upon our results of operations and financial position. We anticipate that Pristine Water Solutions’ and Flex-Kleen’s performance during the fiscal year beginning February 1, 2013 will be at a level that will not indicate impairment of their goodwill, but this expectation is a forward-looking statement where the actual results may not be as we presently anticipate. Please refer to page 25, “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates”, for additional information concerning goodwill impairment. If we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. We purchase electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. The costs of raw materials and power have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. We believe we have improved our raw material purchasing practices over recent years with more centralized purchasing, which has decreased raw material costs. However, if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of raw materials to our customers, our operating margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may incur significant expense as a result of breach of contract, negligence, product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time we are exposed to breach of contract, negligence, product liability, warranty and other claims where our products and/or service cause, or are alleged to cause bodily injury and/or property damage and/or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, as a result of an actual or alleged design or manufacturing defect or other action or inaction or alleged action or inaction on our part. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability and negligence claims, we do not insure against all risks or possible claims, and/or the insurance that we purchase may not cover all claims or amounts found to be owing. In addition, these claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company. Warranty claims are not covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. Natural or man-made disasters could negatively affect our business. Future disasters caused by earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, terrorist attacks or other events, and any potential response by the U.S. government or military, could have a significant adverse effect on the general economic, market and political conditions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our business is sold internationally, we also manufacture outside the United States, and we plan to increase our international distribution and manufacturing of our products. These international activities subject us to additional business risks. In the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, 27.9% of our sales were to customers outside the United States, as compared with 27.9% in the prior fiscal year. As part of our business strategy, we plan to increase our international sales, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Conducting business outside of the United States subjects us to significant additional risks, including: · export and import restrictions, tax consequences and other trade barriers; · currency fluctuations; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections; · economic and political instability; 9 Index · foreign exchange controls that prohibit payment in U.S. dollars; and · increased complexity and costs of managing and staffing international operations. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others and we may be exposed to costly litigation. The products we sell are continually changing as a result of improved technology. Although we and our suppliers attempt to avoid infringing on known proprietary rights of third parties in our products, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement by us, our suppliers or our distributors, of third parties’ patents, trade secrets, trademarks or copyrights. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to either enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us, or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products. We may increasingly be subject to infringement claims as we expand our product offerings. Our ability to operate our Company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly research professionals, technical sales professionals and engineers. The loss of the services of any key employee or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Changes in accounting may affect our reported earnings. For many aspects of our business, United States generally accepted accounting principles are highly complex and require subjective judgments. Additionally, changes in these accounting principles, including their interpretation and application, could significantly change our reported earnings, adding significant volatility to our reported results without a comparable underlying change in our cash flows. We may make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks that could impact our business and results of operations. Our operating strategy involves expanding our scope of products and services through selective acquisitions and the formation of new business units. We have acquired, and may selectively acquire, other businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies that are complementary to our business. We may be unable to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies; · diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; · entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; · unanticipated costs and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities; · potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies; · our ability to properly establish and maintain effective internal controls over an acquired company; and · increasing demands on our operational and information technology systems. Although we would expect to conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies we may seek to purchase, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding their actual operating and financial condition. Until we actually assume operating control of these businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities. This is particularly true with respect to acquisitions that we may consider purchasing outside the United States. 10 Index Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect our business. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 10-K a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and could become increasingly stringent in the future. We continue to devote substantial time and resources to the documentation and testing of our controls, and to planning for and implementation of remedial efforts in those instances where remediation is indicated. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended in the future, we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we continue to take action to ensure compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we do not develop improved products and new products in a timely manner in response to industry demands, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. Our businesses are characterized by ongoing technological developments and changing customer requirements. As a result, our success and continued growth depend, in part, on our ability in a timely manner to develop or acquire rights to, and successfully introduce into the marketplace, enhancements of existing products or new products that incorporate technological advances, meet customer requirements and respond to products developed by our competition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or acquiring such rights to products on a timely basis or that such products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Increased information technology (IT) security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. 11 Index Challenges in the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could impede our ability to execute our strategy and/or limit, our capabilities in responding to current business requirements. We currently operate a computer system that is reaching the end of its useful life. This system is used at many of our locations. A disruption or failure with any component or module of our computer system may result in a delay to our operations, which could negatively affect our financial results. We are undertaking a full replacement of the system, and have installed the new ERP at many of our business units. We are subject to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing our systems, including the following: ● the ability to accept and fulfill customer orders; ● the potential disruption of our internal control structure; ● the use of funds for the software and training; and ● an overall strain on management resources. The new ERP system has been, and will continue to be, deployed for use throughout our company in a number of “go live” phases, with company-wide deployment expected to be completed in early fiscal 2015. Implementing a new ERP system is costly and involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new computer system, including loss of information, disruption to our normal operations, changes in accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, as well as problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. While the new ERP system is intended to further improve and enhance our information systems, large scale implementation of a new information system exposes us to the risks of starting up the new system and integrating that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. The limited liquidity for our common shares could affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. A more active public market for our common stock, however, may not develop, which would continue to adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, liquidation of a holding of our stock at a satisfactory price might not be possible. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 12 Index 