risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not identified in this or other SEC filings, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Economic conditions have recently deteriorated significantly in many of the countries and regions in which we do business and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Global economic conditions have been challenged by slowing growth and the sub-prime debt devaluation crisis, causing worldwide liquidity and credit concerns. Continuing adverse global economic conditions in our markets would likely negatively impact our business, which could result in: · reduced demand for our products, especially for those offered by our Product Recovery/Pollution Control Technologies reporting segment, which include large dollar projects more likely to be affected by economic conditions; · increased price competition for our products; · increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; · increased risk in the collectability of cash from our customers; · increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; and · higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. We sell our products in highly competitive markets, which puts pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. The markets for our products are fragmented and highly competitive. We compete against a very diverse number of companies across our many markets. Depending upon the market, our competitors include large and well-established national and global companies; regional and local companies; low cost replicators of spare parts; and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. We compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability, with price competition tending to be more significant for sales to original equipment manufacturers. Some of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. No assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. If we do not compete successfully, our business, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Beginning in 2002, the Company and/or one of its business units began to be named as one of many defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits filed predominantly in Mississippi on a mass basis by large numbers of plaintiffs against a large number of industrial companies including, in particular, those in the pump and fluid handling industries. The complaints filed against the Company and/or this business unit have been vague, general and speculative, alleging that the Company, and/or the business unit, along with the numerous other defendants, sold unidentified asbestos-containing products and engaged in other related actions which caused injuries (including death) and loss to the plaintiffs. More recent cases typically allege more serious claims of mesothelioma. The Company believes that it and/or the business unit have meritorious defenses to the cases which have been filed and that none of its and/or the business unit's products were a cause of any injury or loss to any of the plaintiffs. The Company’s insurers have hired attorneys who, together with the Company, are vigorously defending these cases. The Company and/or the business unit have been dismissed from or settled a number of these cases. The sum total of payments made through January 31, 2009 to settle these cases is $355,000, all of which has been paid by the Company’s insurers including legal expenses, except for corporate counsel expenses, with an average cost per settled claim, excluding legal fees, of approximately $24,000. As of January 31, 2009, there were a total of 57 cases pending against the Company (with a majority of those cases pending in New York, Mississippi and Maryland), as compared with 38 cases that were pending as of January 31, 2008. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, 29 new cases were filed against the Company, and the Company was dismissed from 10 cases. Most of the pending cases have not advanced beyond the early stages of discovery, although a number of cases are on schedules leading to, or are scheduled for trial. The Company believes that its insurance coverage is adequate for the cases currently pending against the Company and for the foreseeable future assuming a continuation of the current volume and nature of cases; however, the Company has no control over the number and nature of cases that are filed against it nor as to the financial health of its insurers or their position as to coverage. The Company also presently 8 Index believes that none of the pending cases will have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. We maintain defined benefit pension plans that we must fund despite the freezing of the accrual of future benefits for our salaried and non-union hourly employees, effective December 31, 2006, and our union hourly employees, effective December 31, 2008. In these plans’ fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, we contributed approximately $0.9 million. As of January 31, 2009, our unfunded pension liability was approximately $8.8 million, which is an increase of $6.6 million from the unfunded liability as of October 31, 2007, due to losses in the funds’ investment portfolios. We anticipate that we will be required to contribute approximately $1.7 million to these pension funds during the fiscal year ending January 31, 2010. The amount of this pension liability is also materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans such as ours that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense. If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We carry approximately $20.8 million of goodwill on our balance sheet, or approximately 20% of our total assets. Approximately $11.1 million of the $20.8 million relates to our Flex-Kleen business unit. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. The Flex-Kleen business unit, which initially performed well after being acquired by Met-Pro, thereafter had several years of declining performance which we attributed primarily to a general weakness in its served markets, followed by improved performance in the fiscal years ended January 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. We have also made management changes at Flex-Kleen which we believe are helping to improve Flex-Kleen’s performance. During each of the last several fiscal years, including the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, we performed an impairment analysis of the $11.1 million of goodwill that the Company carries for Flex-Kleen and concluded that no impairment has occurred. The carrying value of the Flex-Kleen business unit as of January 31, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $12.8 million and $12.2 million, respectively. The fair value of the Flex-Kleen business unit as of January 31, 2009 and 2008 totaled $14.2 million and $14.4 million, respectively. As a result, the fair value exceeded the carrying amount, including goodwill, by $1.4 million and $2.2 million at January 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Therefore, as of January 31, 2009, the Flex-Kleen business unit’s goodwill was not impaired. Because of market conditions and/or potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Based on current projections, a one percent decrease in revenue growth, a one percent decrease in gross margin or a one percent increase in the weighted average cost of capital would reduce the fair value for the Flex-Kleen business unit by $2.2 million, $1.5 million, and $0.9 million, respectively. Additionally, the Company cannot predict the occurrence of unknown events that might adversely affect the reportable value of costs in excess of net assets of businesses acquired. Flex-Kleen’s performance needs to continue to improve in order for us not to be required to write-off some or all of its goodwill. If in the future we determine that there has been an impairment of Flex-Kleen’s goodwill, we will be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings, to the extent of the impairment, during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined, which would produce an adverse impact upon our results of operations. For each of the last three fiscal years, including the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, the actual net sales and operating profit for our Flex-Kleen business unit exceeded the projections used in our annual impairment model. We anticipate that Flex-Kleen’s performance during the fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009 will be at a level that will not indicate impairment of its goodwill, but this expectation is a forward-looking statement where the actual results may not be as we presently anticipate. Please refer to page 25 “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for additional information concerning goodwill impairment. 9 Index During our fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, we restated prior period financial statements and determined that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have made changes in our internal controls and believe that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 31, 2009 as well as January 31, 2008, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurances that misstatements due to fraud or errors will not occur. During our prior fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, we restated our financial statements for the fiscal year and fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2007 and for the fiscal quarters ended October 30, 2006, April 30, 2007, July 31, 2007 and October 30, 2007 as a result of revenue recognition errors. Specifically, the combination of the lack of effective policies and procedures surrounding the review of terms and conditions of customer purchase orders and with respect to the status of those orders, and other weaknesses in our controls as more fully identified in Item 9A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, contributed (together with false statements by vendors, documents fabricated by an employee, and other unauthorized actions by the employee explicitly intended to circumvent our revenue recognition policies and procedures, as well as other policies and procedures) to the reporting of incorrect net sales and net income, as well as related errors, in our financial statements for the indicated fiscal periods. In connection with this we determined that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which we believe was remediated prior to January 31, 2008. However, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. If we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. We purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. The costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. In recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys and certain other of our raw materials have increased, with the prices for energy currently exceeding historical averages. If we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials to our customers, our operating margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company. Warranty claims are not covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. Natural or man-made disasters could negatively affect our business. Future disasters caused by earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, terrorist attacks or other events, and any potential response by the U.S. government or military, could have a significant adverse effect on the general economic, market and political conditions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our business is sold internationally, we also manufacture outside the United States, and we plan to increase our international distribution and manufacturing of our products. These international activities subject us to additional business risks. In the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, 26% of our sales were to customers outside the United States, as compared with 28% in the prior fiscal year. As part of our business strategy, we intend to increase our international sales, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Conducting business outside of the United States subjects us to additional risks, including: 10 Index · export and import restrictions, tax consequences and other trade barriers, · currency fluctuations, · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections, · economic and political instability, · foreign exchange controls that prohibit payment in U.S. dollars, and · increased complexity and costs of managing and staffing international operations. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others and we may be exposed to costly litigation. The products we sell are continually changing as a result of improved technology. Although we and our suppliers attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our products, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement by us, our suppliers or our distributors, of third parties’ patents, trade secrets, trademarks or copyrights. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to either enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us, or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products. We may increasingly be subject to infringement claims as we expand our product offerings. Our ability to operate our Company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly research professionals, technical sales professionals and engineers. The loss of the services of any key employee or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Changes in accounting may affect our reported earnings. For many aspects of our business, United States generally accepted accounting principles, including pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations, are highly complex and require subjective judgments. Additionally, changes in these accounting principles, including their interpretation and application, could significantly change our reported earnings, adding significant volatility to our reported results without a comparable underlying change in our cash flows. Additional Risks to the Company. The Company is subject to various risks occurring in the normal course of business. The Forward-Looking Statements; Factors That May Affect Future Results in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Report sets forth a list of risks, including those identified above, that may adversely affect the Company and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 11 Index 