Item 1A. Risk Factors - Continued defense and settlement, may exceed our available coverage. We are dependent on the availability and price of raw materials. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including petroleum-based products, glass, copper and precious metals, and all raw materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. We did experience price increases in fiscal 2008 and 2007 for copper, precious metals and petroleum-based raw materials. Because we derive approximately 57% of our revenues from customers in the automotive segment, rising oil prices could adversely affect future results. A large portion of our revenue is derived from parts and components that are provided in our customers’ less fuel-efficient vehicles. Increasing oil and gasoline prices have, and, are expected to continue to negatively affect the sales of those vehicles in the future, which could negatively impact our future automotive revenue. We have and may continue to incur additional significant restructuring charges that will adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the economic downturn, we have incurred $25.3 million in restructuring charges in fiscal 2009, and we expect to incur $9.2 million to $19.2 million of restructuring charges in fiscal 2010. This will have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If economic conditions worsen, we could have additional restructuring efforts in addition to those mentioned above. We may incur additional goodwill and other asset impairments. Our business has been and may continue to be materially adversely affected by the current economic environment. The recent disruptions in global financial and credit markets have significantly impacted global economic activity and led to an economic recession. As a result of these disruptions, our customers and markets have been adversely affected. We have recently experienced a significant drop in sales in all our reporting segments. If we experience reduced demand because of these disruptions in the macroeconomic environment or other factors, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to these changes and our business could be adversely affected. We have recorded and may record additional impairment charges that would adversely impact our results of operations. We review our goodwill and other assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and we also review our goodwill annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles” as well as SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”. The values assigned to goodwill and intangible assets are normally based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success a nd life cycle of products and technologies acquired. A decline in expectations, future cash flows, a change in strategic direction or our market capitalization remaining below our net book value for a significant period of time could result in significant impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our goodwill and other asset impairment charges. 8 Table of Contents Item 