Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements in this report are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. We undertake no duty to update any such forward-looking statements to conform to actual results or changes in our expectations. Our business is highly dependent upon two large automotive customers and specific makes and models of automobiles. Our results will be subject to many of the same risks that apply to the automotive, appliance, computer and communications industries, such as general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, consumer spending patterns and technological changes. Other factors which may result in materially different results for future periods include the following risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that our management currently believe to be insignificant may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this report because these factors could cause our actual results and condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report are subject to the safe harbor protection provided under the securities laws and are made as of the date of this report. We depend on a small number of large customers, specifically two large automotive customers. If we were to lose either of these customers or experienced a significant decline in the volume or price of products purchased by these customers, or if either of the customers declare bankruptcy, our future results could be adversely affected. During the year ended April 28, 2012, shipments to Ford and GM, or their tiered suppliers, represented 18.7% and 18.5%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. The contracts we have entered into with these customers provide for supplying the customers’ requirements for a particular model, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. Such contracts range from one year to the life of the model, which is generally three to seven years. Therefore, the loss of a contract for a major model or a significant decrease in demand for certain key models or group of related models sold by Ford or GM could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We also compete to supply products for successor models and are subject to the risk that Ford or GM will not select us to produce products on any such model, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Because we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers in the automotive, appliance, computer and communications industries, we are susceptible to trends and factors affecting those industries. Our components are found in the primary end markets of the automotive, communications (including information processing and storage, networking equipment, wireless and terrestrial voice/data systems), aerospace, rail and other transportation industries, appliances and the consumer and industrial equipment markets. Factors negatively affecting these industries and the demand for products also negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In fiscal 2010 and 2009, we experienced slow-downs in all significant segments due to the recession. Any adverse occurrence, including additional industry slowdown, recession, rising interest rates, political instability, costly or constraining regulations, armed hostilities, terrorism, excessive inflation, prolonged disruptions in one or more of our customers’ production schedules or labor disturbances, that results in significant decline in the volume of sales in these industries, or in an overall downturn in the business and operations of our customers in these industries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 3 Table of ContentsDownturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers could reduce the sales and profitability of our business. Currently, approximately 58% of our business is dependent on automotive sales and the vehicle production schedules of our customers. The automotive market is cyclical and depends on general economic conditions, interest rates and consumer spending patterns. Any significant reduction in vehicle production by our customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.In addition, we have significant receivable balances related to these customers that would be at risk in the event of their bankruptcy. Prior to fiscal 2012, due to the financial stresses within the global economy, which directly affected the worldwide automotive industry, certain automakers and suppliers declared bankruptcy. In the event of the bankruptcy of any of our customers with significant receivable balances, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our technology-based business and the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales will decline. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and characterized by rapid changes due to technological improvements and developments. We compete with a large number of other manufacturers in each of our product areas; many of these competitors have greater resources and sales. Price, service and product performance are significant elements of competition in the sale of our products. Competition may intensify further if more companies enter the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We face risks relating to our international operations Recently, there has been global concern over the overall macroeconomic environment in Europe, the currency exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and the U.S. dollar, the banking system in the European Economic Community, the ability of European consumers to access credit to finance automobile purchases and the ability of the European Central Bank to provide enough liquidity and backing to any countries experiencing sovereign debt issues, such as Greece, Italy and Spain. Any or all of these factors could negatively impact our European operations.In addition, because approximately 59% of our sales come from our international operations, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by economic, political, health, regulatory and other factors existing in foreign countries in which we operate. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, which may adversely affect us, including: fluctuations in exchange rates; political and economic instability; expropriation, or the imposition of government controls; changes in government regulations; export license requirements; trade restrictions; earnings expatriation restrictions; exposure to different legal standards; less favorable intellectual property laws; health conditions and standards; currency controls; increases in duties and taxes; high levels of inflation or deflation; greater difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; limitations on insurance coverage against geopolitical risks, natural disasters and business operations; and communication among and management of international operations. In addition, these same factors may also place us at a competitive disadvantage to some of our foreign competitors. We are dependent on the availability and price of materials. We require substantial amounts of materials, including petroleum-based products, glass, copper and precious metals, application-specific integrated circuits and light-emitting diode (LED) displays, and all materials we require are purchased from third party sources. The availability and prices of materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Any change in the availability of, or price for, these materials could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We experienced price increases on some resins as well as silver in fiscal 2012, however copper prices remained constant.We experienced significant price increases in fiscal 2011 for copper, precious metals and petroleum-based raw materials and shortages for certain electrical components. Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their 4 Table of Contentsmanufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.We may be unable to keep pace with rapid technological changes, which would adversely affect our business. The technologies relating to some of our products have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, rapid and significant changes. Specifically, end markets for electronic components and assemblies are characterized by technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer requirements and emerging industry standards. These changes could render our existing products unmarketable before we can recover any or all of our research, development and other expenses. Furthermore, the life cycles of our products vary, may change and are difficult to estimate. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and market new products or product enhancements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Products we manufacture may contain design or manufacturing defects that could result in reduced demand for our products or services and liability claims against us. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may occur in the products we manufacture due to a variety of factors, including design or manufacturing errors or component failure. Product defects may result in delayed shipments and reduced demand for our products. We may be subject to increased costs due to warranty claims on defective products. Product defects may result in product liability claims against us where defects cause, or are alleged to cause, property damage, bodily injury or death. We may be required to participate in a recall involving products that are, or are alleged to be, defective. We carry insurance for certain legal matters involving product liability, however, we do not have coverage for all costs related to product defects or recalls and the costs of such claims, including costs of defense and settlement, may exceed our available coverage. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or we infringe, or are alleged to infringe, on another person’s intellectual property, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have numerous United States and foreign patents and license agreements covering certain of our products and manufacturing processes, several of which are considered significant to our business. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued. The loss of any significant patents and trade secrets could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, share price. We have and may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or because others may allege that we infringe on their intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit could subject us to liability for damages and invalidate our intellectual property rights. If an infringement claim is successfully asserted by a holder of intellectual property rights, we may be required to cease marketing or selling certain products, pay a penalty for past infringement and spend significant time and money to develop a non-infringing product or process or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the holder. We may not be successful in the development of a non-infringing alternative, or licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in which case we may lose sales and profits. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could materially adversely affect us even if we are successful in the litigation. We are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. Over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure to lower our prices. In order to maintain our margins, we must strive to increase volumes and reduce our costs. Continuing pressures to reduce our prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 5 Table of ContentsWe were awarded new North American automotive business in fiscal 2011 for a program that will not begin production until the end of fiscal 2013. We anticipate that it will take a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch this program.During fiscal 2011, we were awarded a next generation center stack program for multiple GM vehicle platforms. The program is expected to be manufactured in our plant in Monterrey, Mexico. We anticipate that the center stack program for GM will require a significant amount of cash for the purchase of equipment, tooling and initial inventory as well as additional staffing for the development and launching of the program. We expect to begin production and generate sales on this program in late fiscal 2013. Therefore, we anticipate our cash balances will likely decline due to the launching of this program without a corresponding increase in sales.We currently have a significant amount of our cash located outside the U.S.We believe our current world-wide cash balances together with expected future cash flows to be generated from operations will be sufficient to support current operations. However, due to the shifting of operations from the U.S. to foreign locations, a significant amount of cash and expected future cash flows are located outside of the U.S. Except for a planned dividend from a foreign subsidiary, no provision has been made for income taxes on undistributed net income of foreign operations, as we currently expect them to be indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations. However, if we change our position and the cash is repatriated back to the U.S., it may have an adverse affect on our U.S. federal and state taxes, by lowering our net operating loss positions or potentially creating a tax liability.A significant fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could adversely impact our operating results. Although our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our sales and operating costs are realized in other currencies, mainly in Europe and China. Our profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. dollar against the euro and Chinese yuan in which we generate revenue and incur expenses. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.We may acquire businesses or divest business operations. These transactions may pose significant risks and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We intend to explore opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or product lines or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. In addition, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, a reduction of cash or the incurrence of debt. We have in the past, and may in the future, consider divesting certain business operations. Divestitures may involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships and cash flow, and the disruption of operations in the affected business. Failure to timely complete or to consummate a divestiture may negatively affect the valuation of the affected business or result in restructuring charges.We could suffer significant business interruptions. Our operations may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, or floods, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, disease or failures of our management information or other systems. If a business interruption occurs, our business could be materially and adversely affected.Unfavorable tax law changes may adversely affect results. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in the tax laws. 6 Table of ContentsWe cannot ensure that the newly acquired Eetrex and Advanced Molding and Decoration businesses will be successful or that we can implement and profit from any new applications of the acquired technology. We acquired 70% of Eetrex during fiscal 2011 and an additional 20% during fiscal 2012. As a result of this acquisition, we now design and manufacture chargers, inverters and battery systems for hybrid and plug-in hybrid electronic vehicles. The market for these products is competitive and rapidly developing. If we do not keep pace with technological innovations in the industry, our products may not be competitive and we may not benefit from future revenue and earnings. Furthermore, while we intend to expand the Eetrex business by integrating the technology into additional applications, we can make no guarantee that such ventures will be successful or profitable.We acquired certain assets and liabilities from Nypro Monterrey, S. de R.L. from Nypro, Inc. in September, 2011. We operate this injection molding and painting business under the name of Advanced Molding and Decoration, S.A. de C.V. (AMD). This business provides us with high-quality injection molding, painting and decorating capabilities, however, we make no guarantee AMD will be successful or profitable.The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: •quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies;•actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors;•changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations;•any acquisitions or divestitures we pursue or complete;•general conditions in the aerospace, appliance, automotive, consumer and industrial equipment markets and communications, rail and other transportation industries; and•global economic and financial conditions. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone7 Table of Contents