Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements in this report are forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. We undertake no duty to update any such forward-looking statements to conform to actual results or changes in our expectations. Our business is highly dependent upon two large automotive customers and specific makes and models of automobiles. Our results will be subject to many of the same risks that apply to the automotive, appliance, computer and communications industries, such as general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, consumer spending patterns and technological changes. Other factors which may result in materially different results for future periods include the following risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that our management currently believe to be insignificant may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this report because these factors could cause our actual results and condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report are subject to the safe harbor protection provided under the securities laws and are made as of the date of this report. Our business is highly dependent on two large automotive customers. If we were to lose either of these customers or experienced a significant decline in the volume or price of products purchased by these customers, or if either of the customers declare bankruptcy, our future results could be adversely affected. During the year ended May 2, 2015, shipments to GM and Ford, or their tiered suppliers, represented 44.8% and 12.8%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. The supply arrangements with these customers provide for supplying the customers’ requirements for particular models, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. Such supply arrangements cover a period from one year to the life of the model, which is generally three to seven years. Therefore, the loss of a Ford or GM supply arrangement for a model or a significant decrease in demand for one or more of these models could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We also compete to supply products for successor models and are subject to the risk that Ford or GM will not select us to produce products on any such model, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company from time to time provides price concessions in connection with the awarding of new business. Because we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers in the automotive, appliance, computer and communications industries, we are susceptible to trends and factors affecting those industries. 3 Table of ContentsOur components are found in the primary end markets of the automotive, communications (including information processing and storage, networking equipment, wireless and terrestrial voice/data systems), aerospace, rail and other transportation industries, appliances and the consumer and industrial equipment markets, battery storage and medical device markets. Factors negatively affecting these industries also negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Any adverse occurrence, including industry slowdown, recession, rising interest rates, political instability, costly or constraining regulations, armed hostilities, terrorism, excessive inflation, prolonged disruptions in one or more of our customers’ production schedules or labor disturbances, that results in significant decline in the volume of sales in these industries, or in an overall downturn in the business and operations of our customers in these industries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to market our automotive products is subject to a lengthy sales cycle, which requires significant investment prior to significant sales revenues, and there is no assurance that our products will be implemented in any particular vehicle. The sales cycle for our automotive products, our largest industry segment, is lengthy because an automobile manufacturer must develop a high degree of assurance that the products it buys will meet customer needs, interface as easily as possible with the other parts of a vehicle and with the automobile manufacturer’s production and assembly process, and have minimal warranty, safety and service problems. As a result, from the time that a manufacturer develops a strong interest in our products, it normally will take several years before our products are available to consumers in that manufacturer’s vehicles.In the automotive components industry, products typically proceed through five stages of research and development. Initial research on the product concept comes first, to assess its technical feasibility and economic costs and benefits. This stage often includes development of an internal prototype for the component supplier’s own evaluation. If the product appears feasible, the component supplier manufactures a functioning prototype to demonstrate and test the product’s features. These prototypes are then marketed and sold to automotive companies for testing and evaluation. If an automobile manufacturer shows interest in the product, it typically works with the component supplier to refine the product, then purchases second and subsequent generation engineering prototypes for further evaluation. Finally, the automobile manufacturer either decides to purchase the component for a production vehicle or terminates the program. The time required to progress through these five stages to commercialization varies widely. Generally, the more a component must be integrated with other vehicle systems, the longer the process takes. Further, products that are installed by the factory usually require extra time for evaluation because other vehicle systems are affected, and a decision to introduce the product into the vehicle is not easily reversed. Because our automotive products affect other vehicle systems and are a factory-installed item, the process usually takes several years from conception to commercialization.While we currently have active development programs with various OEMs for a variety of our products, no assurance can be given that our products will be implemented in any particular vehicles. During this development process, we derive minimal funding from prototype sales but generally obtain no significant revenue until mass production begins, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. If our products are not selected after a lengthy development process, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Other automotive products that we develop are also likely to have a lengthy sales cycle. Because such technology is new and evolving, and because customers will likely require that any new product we develop pass certain feasibility and economic viability tests before committing to purchase, it is expected that any new products we develop will take some years before they are sold to customers, if at all.We are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. Over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure to lower our prices. The Company from time to time provides price concessions in connection with the awarding of new business.In order to maintain our profitability, we must strive to increase volumes and reduce our costs. Continuing pressures to reduce our prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to effectively manage the timing, quality and cost of new program launches could adversely affect our financial performance.In connection with the award of new business, we obligate ourselves to deliver new products and services that are subject to our customers' timing, performance and quality demands. Additionally, we must effectively coordinate the activities of numerous suppliers in order for the program launches of certain of our products to be successful. Given the complexity of new program launches, we may experience difficulties managing product quality, timeliness and associated 4 Table of Contentscosts. In addition, new program launches require a significant ramp up of costs; however, our sales related to these new programs generally are dependent upon the timing and success of our customers' introduction of new vehicles. Our inability to effectively manage the timing, quality and costs of these new program launches could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 5 Table of ContentsDisruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.We are dependent on the availability and price of materials. We require substantial amounts of materials, including application-specific integrated circuits, coil and bar stock, ferrous and copper alloy sheets, glass, light-emitting diode ("LED") displays, plastic molding materials, precious metals, and silicon die castings. The availability and prices of materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Any change in the availability of, or price for, these materials could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We did not experience any significant price increases for raw materials in fiscal 2015 or fiscal 2014.A significant portion of our business activities are conducted in foreign countries, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States. International operations represent a significant portion of our business. Sales outside the United States represent a majority of our net sales, and we expect net sales outside the United States to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales. Outside of the United States, we operate manufacturing facilities in China, Egypt, Malta, Mexico and Switzerland. Our international operations are subject to a variety of potential risks, including:•inflation or changes in political and economic conditions;•unstable regulatory environments;•changes in import and export duties and licenses;•domestic and foreign customs and tariffs;•potentially adverse tax consequences;•trade restrictions;•exchange rate fluctuations;•restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country;•changes in labor laws, including minimum wage;•labor unrest;•logistical and communications challenges;•difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries;•compliance risks associated with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other anti-bribery laws;•differing protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; and•burdensome taxes and other restraints. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.A significant fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could adversely impact our operating results. Although our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our sales and operating costs are realized in other currencies, mainly in Europe and China. Our profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in which we generate revenue and incur expenses, particularly the euro and Chinese yuan. Significant fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. 6 Table of ContentsChanges in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations.A number of factors may increase our effective tax rate, which could reduce our net income, including:•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits;•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances;•adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns;•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill and intangible assets;•changes in available tax credits;•changes in tax laws or interpretation, including changes in the U.S. to the taxation of non-U.S. income and expenses;•changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;•our decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes.Our gross margins are subject to fluctuations due to many factors.A number of factors may impact our gross margins, including the following:•geographical and vertical market pricing mix;•changes in the mix of our prototyping and production-based business;•competitive pricing dynamics and customer mix; •pricing concessions;•various manufacturing cost variables including product yields, package and assembly costs, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory and the absorption of manufacturing overhead; and•any significant decrease in our gross margins could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), we are required to make periodic assessments of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. We incurred impairment charges to write-off goodwill and intangible assets of $11.1 million, $1.7 million and $4.3 million in fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively. Disruptions to our business, end-market conditions, protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and enterprise value declines may result in impairment charges to goodwill and other asset impairments. Future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported results in these periods.We may be unable to keep pace with rapid technological changes, which could adversely affect our business. The technologies relating to some of our products have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, rapid and significant changes. Specifically, end markets for electronic components and assemblies are characterized by technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer requirements and emerging industry standards. These changes could render our existing products unmarketable before we can recover any or all of our research, development and other expenses. Furthermore, the life cycles of our products vary, may change and are difficult to estimate. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and market new products or product enhancements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.We currently have a significant amount of our cash located outside the U.S.We believe our current world-wide cash balances together with expected future cash flows to be generated from operations will be sufficient to support current operations. Due to the shifting of operations from the U.S. to foreign locations, a significant amount of cash and expected future cash flows are located outside of the U.S. No provision has been made for income taxes on undistributed net income of foreign operations, as we currently expect them to be indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations. However, if we change our position and the cash is repatriated back to the U.S., it may have an adverse affect on our U.S. federal and state taxes, by creating a tax liability. 7 Table of ContentsAny decision to strategically divest one or more current businesses or our inability to capitalize on prior or future acquisitions may adversely affect our business.We have completed acquisitions and divestitures in the past and we may continue to seek acquisitions to grow our businesses. We may also divest operations to focus on our core businesses. We may fail to derive significant benefits from such transactions. Also, if we fail to achieve sufficient financial performance from an acquisition, certain long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, could become impaired and result in the recognition of an impairment loss.The success of our acquisitions depends on our ability to:•successfully execute the integration or consolidation of the acquired operations into our existing businesses;•develop or modify the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired entity to ensure overall financial integrity and adequacy of internal control procedures;•finance the acquisition;•identify and take advantage of cost reduction opportunities; and•further penetrate new and existing markets with the product capabilities we may acquireIntegration of acquisitions may take longer than we expect and may never be achieved to the extent originally anticipated. Acquisitions may also increase our debt levels. This could result in lower than expected business growth or higher than anticipated costs. In addition, acquisitions or strategic divestitures may:•cause a disruption in our ongoing business;•cause dilution of our stock;•distract our managers; or•unduly burden other resources in our company. Products we manufacture may contain design or manufacturing defects that could result in reduced demand for our products or services and liability claims against us. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may occur in the products we manufacture due to a variety of factors, including design or manufacturing errors or component failure or counterfeit parts. Product defects may result in delayed shipments and reduced demand for our products. We may be subject to increased costs due to warranty claims on defective products. Product defects may result in product liability claims against us where defects cause, or are alleged to cause, property damage, bodily injury or death. We may be required to participate in a recall involving products that are, or are alleged to be, defective. We carry insurance for certain legal matters involving product liability, however, we do not have coverage for all costs related to product defects or recalls and the costs of such claims, including costs of defense and settlement, may exceed our available coverage.If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or we infringe, or are alleged to infringe, on another person’s intellectual property, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have numerous United States and foreign patents and license agreements covering certain of our products and manufacturing processes. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued. The loss of certain patents and trade secrets could adversely affect our sales, margins or profitability. We have and may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or because others may allege that we infringe on their intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit could subject us to liability for damages and invalidate our intellectual property rights. If an infringement claim is successfully asserted by a holder of intellectual property rights, we may be required to cease marketing or selling certain products, pay a penalty for past infringement and spend significant time and money to develop a non-infringing product or process or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the holder. We may not be successful in the development of a non-infringing alternative, or licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in which case we may lose sales and profits. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could materially adversely affect us even if we are successful in the litigation. 8 Table of ContentsOur technology-based business and the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales could decline. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and characterized by rapid changes due to technological improvements and developments. We compete with a large number of other manufacturers in each of our product areas; many of these competitors have greater resources and sales. Price, service and product performance are significant elements of competition in the sale of our products. Competition may intensify further if more companies enter the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Should a catastrophic event or other significant business interruption occur at any of our facilities, we could face significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third party liability and loss of production capacity, which could adversely affect our business. Weather conditions, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could cause significant disruptions in operations, including, specifically, disruptions at our manufacturing facilities or those of our major suppliers or customers. In turn, the quality, cost and volumes of the products we produce and sell could be unexpectedly, negatively affected, which will impact our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also damage our manufacturing facilities or infrastructure, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs, production volumes and demand for our products. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing partners and customers. Our business operations could be subject to interruption by power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. Such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to produce and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, thereby creating delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, and disruptions in the operations of our manufacturing partners and component suppliers. The majority of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing partners, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, losses could be incurred and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. While we may purchase insurance policies to cover the direct economic impact experienced following a natural disaster occurring at one of our own facilities, there can be no assurance that such insurance policies will cover the full extent of our financial loss nor will they cover losses which are not economic in nature such as, for example, our business and reputation as a reliable supplier. Our information technology (“IT”) systems could be breached. We face certain security threats relating to the confidentiality and integrity of our IT systems. Despite implementation of security measures, our IT systems may be vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, cyber attacks and other unauthorized access and these security breaches could result in a disruption to our operations. A material network breach of our IT systems could involve the theft of our and our customers' intellectual property or trade secrets which may be used by competitors to develop competing products. To the extent that any security breach results in a loss or damage to data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our customer relations, lead to claims against us, increase our costs to protect against future damage and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial position.Regulations related to the use of conflict-free minerals may increase our costs and expenses, and an inability to certify that our products are conflict-free may adversely affect customer relationships.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability of the use by public companies in their products of minerals mined in certain countries and to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. As a result, the Securities and Exchange Commission enacted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for public companies that use these minerals in their products, which apply to us. Under the final rules, we were required to conduct due diligence to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and to make annual disclosures beginning in May 2014. Because our supply chain is broad-based and complex, we may not be able to easily 9 Table of Contentsverify the origins for all minerals used in our products. In addition, the new rules may reduce the number of suppliers who provide components and products containing conflict-free minerals and thus may increase the cost of the components used in manufacturing our products and the costs of our products to us. Any increased costs and expenses may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone 10 Table of Contents