ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the risks that could cause actual results to differ significantly from those expressed or implied by such statements: Our performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Although the Company’s leases are generally long-term and may be below market, real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk and are relatively illiquid. Among the factors that may impact our real estate property values or the revenues derived from our portfolio are changes in the national, regional and local economic climate, the attractiveness of our properties to tenants, competition from other available property owners and changes in market rental rates. Our performance also depends on the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rent from tenants and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property. Our results could be negatively affected by delinquencies in our mortgage or high-yield loan receivables. On a limited basis we provide high-yield, short-term mortgage loans that we believe are collateralized by desirable properties at substantial value-to-loan ratios. In addition, we have provided purchase money notes to buyers of certain real estate properties. Although we believe that the collateral for these loans is sufficient to recover its carrying value, changes in the real estate market in the locale in which the property is located or delinquencies by the borrower could negatively affect our carrying value for these loans and, ultimately, our results of operations and cash flows. Off-balance sheet obligations could deplete our liquidity and capital resources. We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The debt of the joint venture in which we currently have an ownership interest is a non-recourse obligation and is collateralized by the entity’s real property. We believe that with each arrangement the value of the underlying property and its operating cash flows are sufficient to satisfy its obligations. In addition, we are not obligated for the debts of the joint venture. However, we could decide to satisfy the debts of the joint venture to protect our investment. In such event, our capital resources and financial condition would be reduced and, in certain instances, the carrying value of our investment and our results of operations would be negatively impacted. 5 Operating results of our hotel operations are subject to conditions common in the lodging industry. Changes in certain factors could adversely impact hotel room demand and pricing and result in reduced occupancy or could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These factors include: · local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, hotel rooms; · the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers and competition from other hotels; · the quality, philosophy and performance of the managers of our hotels; · increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors such as increases in the price of energy, healthcare or insurance; · changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions and cancellation of or changes in events scheduled to occur in our markets; · seasonality, inherent in the hotel industry, may cause our results to fluctuate significantly between quarters; and · other unpredictable external factors, such as acts of god, war, terrorist attacks, epidemics, airline strikes, transportation and fuel price increases and severe weather, may reduce business and leisure travel. Our engineered products segment relies on significant customers. The Company sells its engineered products to many customers throughout the world. Historically, a small number of customers have accounted for significant portions of these sales. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales by the engineered products segment to General Motors, its largest customer, accounted for 14.6% of the segment’s sales. Since our engineered products segment accounted for 52.5% of our consolidated revenues in 2007, the loss of General Motors as a customer, or a significant decline in sales to them, would adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, such sales could be negatively impacted in 2008 due to the effects of the continued softening of sales in the automotive industry. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our engineered products are highly competitive. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully compete or that our competitors will not develop new technologies and products that are more commercially effective than our own. Some of our competitors have financial, technical, marketing, sales and distribution resources greater than ours. An interruption in the supply, or a significant increase in the cost, of our raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. The principal raw materials used in the Company’s engineered products business are stainless steel wire, steel-related products and copper, which are typically purchased from multiple suppliers throughout the world. The price and availability of raw materials can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, supply and demand, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. These factors could significantly affect the availability and cost of our raw materials which are generally purchased at levels that we believe will satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon contractual commitments, historical buying practices and market conditions. We may be unable to recover raw material cost increases due to contractual or competitive conditions. Conversely, reductions in raw material prices could result in lower sales prices for our products and lower margins as we utilize existing inventories. Therefore, changing raw material costs could significantly impact our revenues, gross margins, operating and net income. If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of stainless steel wire or other critical raw materials on a timely basis and at competitive prices, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Protection of our intellectual property is limited; we are subject to the risk of third party claims of infringement. Our engineered products business relies in large part upon our proprietary scientific and engineering “know-how” and production techniques. Historically, patents have not been an important part of our protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely upon the laws regarding unfair competition, restrictions in licensing agreements and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. We limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. 6 Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We are not currently involved in any litigation regarding the infringement upon our intellectual property or regarding our infringement upon the intellectual property of others. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation and environmental problems which are possible and can be costly. Our engineered products segment is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. We believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with such regulations and that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. Nevertheless, the failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances at such property. We have undertaken the completion of environmental studies and/or remedial action at Metex’ two New Jersey facilities and have recorded a liability for the estimated investigation, remediation and administrative costs associated therewith (See “Environmental Regulations” in Item 1 of Part I and Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company may revise such estimates in the future due to the uncertainty regarding the nature, timing and extent of any remediation efforts that may be required at these sites, should an appropriate regulatory agency deem such efforts to be necessary. The estimates may also be revised as new or additional information in these matters becomes available or should the NJDEP or other regulatory agencies require additional or alternative remediation efforts in the future. Although we do not expect such events to significantly change our estimates, adverse decisions or events, particularly as to the merits of our factual and legal basis, could cause us to change our estimate of liability with respect to such matters in the future. Accordingly, we are unable to predict whether our estimate of future remediation costs will materially increase in the future. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. For example, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, the sales price of our common stock fluctuated between $36.00 and $22.50 per share and subsequent to December 31, 2007 the market price had a high of $25.10 per share. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. Mr. A.F. Petrocelli can control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Mr. A.F. Petrocelli, the Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 66.7% of the Company’s outstanding common stock (exclusive of options). Such amount includes shares held by his wife but does not include shares held by the adult children or grandchildren of Mr. Petrocelli. Accordingly, Mr. Petrocelli is therefore able to exercise considerable influence over the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers or other business combinations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 7 ITEM 