ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to the Microvision Business We have a history of operating losses and expect to incur significant losses in the future. We have had substantial losses since our inception. We cannot assure you that we will ever become or remain profitable. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $239.6 million. We incurred consolidated net losses of $154.2 million from inception through 2003, $33.2 million in 2004, $28.2 million in 2005, and $24.0 million in 2006. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered by companies formed to develop and market new technologies. In particular, our operations to date have focused primarily on research and development of the light scanning technology and development of demonstration units. We are unable to accurately estimate future revenues and operating expenses based upon historical performance. We cannot be certain that we will succeed in obtaining additional development contracts or that we will be able to obtain substantial customer orders for our products. In light of these factors, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow at least through 2007 and likely thereafter. We cannot be certain that we will achieve positive cash flow at any time in the future. We will require additional capital to fund our operations and to implement our business plan. If we do not obtain additional capital, we may be required to curtail our operations substantially. Raising additional capital may dilute the value of current shareholders' shares. Based on our current operating plan and budgeted cash requirements, we expect our cash, cash equivalents and expected proceeds from the sale of Lumera common stock to fund operations through 2007. Based on our current operating plan, we anticipate we will require additional cash by February 2008. We plan to obtain additional cash through the issuance of equity or debt securities. We will require additional capital in the future to fund our operations, including to: Further develop the light scanning technology, Develop and protect our intellectual property rights, and Fund long-term marketing and business development opportunities. We own 1,750,000 shares of Lumera common stock which are pledged as collateral for the convertible notes. The final payments on the notes are due March 15, 2007. After we repay the notes in full, the pledged shares are released to us and become eligible for sale. Based on the March 1, 2007 closing price of $4.28, the pledged Lumera shares have a market value of approximately $7.5 million. The market price of Lumera's common stock is subject to fluctuations based on Lumera's financial performance, published accomplishments and overall market conditions. During the 90 calendar day period ended March 1, 2007, Lumera common stock has traded between $4.06 and $10.35. The immediate sale of Lumera stock in the public market could have a negative impact on the Lumera stock price. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which we can, directly or through arrangements with original equipment manufacturers, introduce products incorporating the light scanning and image capture technologies and the market acceptance and competitive position of such products. If revenues are less than we anticipate, if the level and mix of revenues vary from anticipated amounts and allocations or if expenses exceed the amounts budgeted, we may require additional capital earlier than expected to further the development of our technologies, for expenses associated with product development, and to respond to competitive pressures or to meet unanticipated development difficulties. In addition, our operating plan provides for the development of strategic relationships with systems and equipment manufacturers that may require additional investments by us. There can be no assurance that such cash will be available to us, or if available, on terms acceptable to us or on a timely basis. Raising additional capital may involve issuing securities with rights and preferences that are senior to our common stock and may dilute the value of current shareholders' shares. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit our operations substantially. This limitation of operations may include reductions in staff and operating costs as well as reductions in capital expenditures and investment in research and development. The value of our investment in Lumera may decrease. Lumera's stock price is subject to fluctuation and may decrease, lowering the value of our investment. We own approximately 8.8% of Lumera's common stock. Since we hold a large percentage of Lumera's common stock, if an active market does not develop or is not sustained, it may be difficult for us to sell our shares of Lumera's common stock at an attractive price or at all. The likelihood of Lumera's success, and the value of the common stock we hold, must be considered in light of the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, especially those formed to develop and market new technologies. These risks include Lumera's potential inability to establish product sales and marketing capabilities to establish and maintain markets for their potential products; and to continue to develop and upgrade their technologies to keep pace with changes in technology and the growth of markets using polymer materials. If Lumera is unsuccessful in meeting these challenges, its stock price, and the value of our investment, could decrease. We cannot be certain that the light scanning technology or products incorporating this technology will achieve market acceptance. If the light scanning technology does not achieve market acceptance, our revenues may not grow. Our success will depend in part on customer acceptance of the light scanning technology. The light scanning technology may not be accepted by manufacturers who use display technologies in their products, by systems integrators who incorporate our products into their products or by end users of these products. To be accepted, the light scanning technology must meet the expectations of our potential customers in the automotive, defense and consumer markets. If our technology fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to continue to develop the light scanning technology. It may become more difficult to sell our stock in the public market. Our common stock is listed for quotation on The NASDAQ Global Market. To keep our listing on this market, we must meet NASDAQ's listing maintenance standards. If we are unable to continue to meet NASDAQ's listing maintenance standards, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock were delisted, we likely would seek to list the common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the American Stock Exchange or on a regional stock exchange. Listing on such other market or exchange could reduce the liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock were not listed on the Capital Market or an exchange, trading of our common stock would be conducted in the over-the- counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities or directly through market makers in our common stock. If our common stock were to trade in the over-the-counter market, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, the common stock. A delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market and failure to obtain listing on such other market or exchange would subject our securities to so-called penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice and market- making requirements on broker-dealers who sell or make a market in such securities. Consequently, removal from The NASDAQ Global Market and failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange could affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock and the ability of purchasers of our common stock to sell their securities in the secondary market. In addition, when the market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, we become subject to penny stock rules even if our common stock is still listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. While the penny stock rules should not affect the quotation of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market, these rules may further limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors to sell our common stock in the secondary market. During the first and second quarter of 2003, the third quarter of 2004, the second quarter and fourth quarter of 2005, and all four quarters of 2006, the market price of our stock traded below $5.00 per share. On March 1, 2007, the closing price of our stock was $3.38. Our lack of the financial and technical resources relative to our competitors may limit our revenues, potential profits, overall market share or value. Our current products and potential future products will compete with established manufacturers of existing products and companies developing new technologies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than us. Because of their greater resources, our competitors may develop products or technologies that are superior to our own. The introduction of superior competing products or technologies could result in reduced revenues, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which could reduce the value of our business. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological change and our financial results may suffer. The information display industry has been characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerated product obsolescence and continuously evolving industry standards. Our success will depend upon our ability to further develop the light scanning technology and to cost effectively introduce new products and features in a timely manner to meet evolving customer requirements and compete with competitors' product advances. We may not succeed in these efforts because of: delays in product development, lack of market acceptance for our products, or lack of funds to invest in product development and marketing. The occurrence of any of the above factors could result in decreased revenues, market share and value. We could face lawsuits related to our use of the light scanning technology or other technologies. Defending these suits would be costly and time consuming. An adverse outcome in any such matter could limit our ability to commercialize our technology and products, reduce our revenues and increase our operating expenses. We are aware of several patents held by third parties that relate to certain aspects of light scanning displays and image capture products. These patents could be used as a basis to challenge the validity, limit the scope or limit our ability to obtain additional or broader patent rights of our patents or patents we have licensed. A successful challenge to the validity of our patents or patents we have licensed could limit our ability to commercialize the light scanning technology and other technologies and, consequently, materially reduce our revenues. Moreover, we cannot be certain that patent holders or other third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current and future technology. Because U.S. patent applications are held and examined in secrecy, it is also possible that presently pending U.S. applications will eventually be issued with claims that will be infringed by our products or the light scanning technology. The defense and prosecution of a patent suit would be costly and time consuming, even if the outcome were ultimately favorable to us. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant cost, to require others and us to cease selling products that incorporate light scanning technology, to cease licensing light scanning technology or to require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties. Such licenses, if available, would increase our operating expenses. Moreover, if claims of infringement are asserted against our future co-development partners or customers, those partners or customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. Our planned future products are dependent on advances in technology by other companies. We rely on and will continue to rely on technologies, such as light sources, MEMS and optical components that are developed and produced by other companies. The commercial success of certain of our planned future products will depend in part on advances in these and other technologies by other companies. We may, from time to time, contract with and support companies developing key technologies in order to accelerate the development of them for our specific uses. There are no guarantees that such activities will result in useful technologies or components for us. Our products may be subject to future health and safety regulations that could increase our development and production costs. Products incorporating light scanning technology could become subject to new health and safety regulations that would reduce our ability to commercialize the light scanning technology. Compliance with any such new regulations would likely increase our cost to develop and produce products using the light scanning technology and adversely affect our financial results. If we cannot manufacture products at competitive prices, our financial results will be adversely affected. To date, we have produced limited quantities of our Flic products and demonstration units of the integrated photonics module for research, development and demonstration purposes. The cost per unit for these integrated photonics module units currently exceeds the level at which we could expect to profitably sell these products. If we cannot lower our cost of production, we may face increased demands on our financial resources, possibly requiring additional equity and/or debt financing to sustain our business operations. Our future growth will suffer if we do not achieve sufficient market acceptance of our products to compete effectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to gain acceptance of our planned products by a large number of consumers. Achieving market-based acceptance for our potential products will require marketing efforts and the expenditure of financial and other resources to create product awareness and demand by potential consumers. We may be unable to offer products consistently or at all that compete effectively with products of others on the basis of price or performance. In addition, our efforts to improve the quality and utility of our existing Flic products may not result in improved sales. Failure to achieve broad acceptance of our products by potential consumers and to effectively compete would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Because we plan to continue using foreign contract manufacturers, our operating results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other factors in foreign countries. We currently use a contract manufacturer in Asia to manufacture our Flic product, and we plan to continue using foreign manufacturers to manufacture some of our potential products where appropriate. These international operations are subject to inherent risks, which may adversely affect us, including: political and economic instability; high levels of inflation, historically the case in a number of countries in Asia; burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; foreign taxes; and changes in tariff rates or other trade and monetary policies. If we experience delays or failures in developing commercially viable products, we may have lower revenues. We have developed demonstration units incorporating the light scanning technology. However, we must undertake additional research, development and testing before we are able to develop additional products for commercial sale. Product development delays by us or our potential product development partners, or the inability to enter into relationships with these partners, may delay or prevent us from introducing products for commercial sale. We intend to rely on third party developments or to contract with other companies to continue development of green laser devices we will need for our products. If we cannot supply products in commercial quantities, we will not achieve commercial success. We are developing our capability to manufacture products in commercial quantities through contract manufacturers. Our success depends in part on our ability to provide our components and future products in commercial quantities at competitive prices. Accordingly, we will be required to obtain access, through business partners or contract manufacturers, to manufacturing capacity and processes for the commercial production of our expected future products. We cannot be certain that we will successfully obtain access to sufficient manufacturing resources. Future manufacturing limitations of our suppliers or contract manufacturers could result in a limitation on the number of products incorporating our technology that we are able to produce. If our licensors and we are unable to obtain effective intellectual property protection for our products and technology, we may be unable to compete with other companies. Intellectual property protection for our products is important and uncertain. If we do not obtain effective intellectual property protection for our products, processes and technology, we may be subject to increased competition. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability and the ability of the University of Washington and our other licensors to maintain the proprietary nature of the light scanning and other key technologies by securing valid and enforceable patents and effectively maintaining unpatented technology as trade secrets. We try to protect our proprietary technology by seeking to obtain United States and foreign patents in our name, or licenses to third-party patents, related to proprietary technology, inventions, and improvements that may be important to the development of our business. However, our patent position and the patent position of the University of Washington and other licensors involve complex legal and factual questions. The standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Additionally, the scope of patents are subject to interpretation by courts and their validity can be subject to challenges and defenses, including challenges and defenses based on the existence of prior art. Consequently, we cannot be certain as to the extent to which we will be able to obtain patents for our new products and technology or the extent to which the patents that we already own or license from others protect our products and technology. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain new patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with ours on the basis of the same or similar technology. We also rely on the law of trade secrets to protect unpatented know-how and technology to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this know- how and technology by limiting access to the trade secrets to those of our employees, contractors and partners with a need to know such information and by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our employees, consultants and business partners. Any of these parties could breach the agreements and disclose our trade secrets or confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any trade secret not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time-consuming and costly, divert management attention and adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. We may be subject to product liability claims if any of our product applications are alleged to be defective or cause harmful effects. For example, because our light scanning displays in some applications are designed to scan a low power beam of colored light into the user's eye, the testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of these products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, divert management time and attention, require us to pay significant damages, harm our reputation or hinder acceptance of our products. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. We rely heavily on a limited number of development contracts with the U.S. government, which are subject to immediate termination by the government for convenience at any time, and the termination of one or more of these contracts could have a material adverse impact on our operations. During the full years 2006 and 2005, 51% and 35%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from performance on a limited number of development contracts with the U.S. government. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. government would significantly reduce our revenues. Our government programs must compete with programs managed by other contractors for limited amounts and uncertain levels of funding. The total amount and levels of funding are susceptible to significant fluctuations on a year-to-year basis. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the government and are likely to continue these efforts in the future. Our contracts with the government are subject to immediate termination by the government for convenience at any time. The government may choose to use contractors with competing display technologies or it may decide to discontinue any of our programs altogether. In addition, those development contracts that we do obtain require ongoing compliance with applicable government regulations. Termination of our development contracts, a shift in government spending to other programs in which we are not involved, a reduction in government spending generally, or our failure to meet applicable government regulations could have severe consequences for our results of operations. Our development agreements have long sales cycles, which make it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our revenues. Our development agreements have lengthy sales cycles that involve numerous steps including determination of a product application, exploring the technical feasibility of a proposed product, evaluating the costs of manufacturing a product and manufacturing or contracting out the manufacturing of the product. Our long sales cycle, which can last several years, makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which contract signing and revenue recognition will occur. Delays in entering into development agreements could cause significant variability in our revenues and operating results for any particular quarterly period. Our development contracts may not lead to products that will be profitable. Our developmental contracts, including without limitation those discussed in this document are exploratory in nature and are intended to develop new types of products for new applications. These efforts may prove unsuccessful and these relationships may not result in the development of products that will be profitable. Our revenues are highly sensitive to developments in the defense industry. Our revenues to date have been derived principally from product development research relating to defense applications of the light scanning technology. We believe that development programs and sales of potential products in this market will represent a significant portion of our future revenues. Developments that adversely affect the defense sector, including delays in government funding and a general economic downturn, could cause our revenues to decline substantially. If we lose our rights under our third party technology licenses, our operations will be adversely affected. Our business depends in part on technology rights licensed from third parties. We could lose our exclusivity or other rights to use the technology under our licenses if we fail to comply with the terms and performance requirements of the licenses. In addition, certain licensors may terminate a license upon our breach and have the right to consent to sublicense arrangements. If we were to lose our rights under any of these licenses, or if we were unable to obtain required consents to future sublicenses, we would lose a competitive advantage in the market, and may even lose the ability to commercialize our products completely. Either of these results could substantially decrease our revenues. We are dependent on third parties in order to develop, manufacture, sell and market our products. Our strategy for commercializing the light scanning technology and products incorporating the light scanning technology includes entering into cooperative development, manufacturing, sales and marketing arrangements with corporate partners, original equipment manufacturers and other third parties. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all, or that these arrangements will be successful in yielding commercially viable products. If we cannot establish these arrangements, we would require additional capital to undertake such activities on our own and would require extensive manufacturing, sales and marketing expertise that we do not currently possess and that may be difficult to obtain. In addition, we could encounter significant delays in introducing the light scanning technology or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products incorporating the light scanning technology would not be feasible. To the extent that we enter into cooperative development, manufacturing, sales and marketing or other joint venture arrangements, our revenues will depend upon the performance of third parties. We cannot be certain that any such arrangements will be successful. Loss of any of our key personnel could have a negative effect on the operation of our business. Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel and on the ability to attract and retain qualified new personnel. Achievement of our business objectives will require substantial additional expertise in the areas of sales and marketing, research and product development and manufacturing. Competition for qualified personnel in these fields is intense, and the inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel, or the loss of key personnel, could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on a small number of customers for our revenue. Our quarterly performance may vary substantially and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. Our revenues to date have been generated primarily from a limited number of development contracts with U.S. government entities and commercial partners. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly based on: reductions or delays in funding of development programs involving new information display technologies by the U.S. government or our current or prospective commercial partners; changes in evaluations and recommendations by any securities analysts following our stock or our industry generally; announcements by other companies in our industry; changes in business or regulatory conditions; announcements or implementation by our competitors of technological innovations or new products; the status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements; economic and stock market conditions; or other factors unrelated to our company or industry. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and the trading price of our common stock may decline as a consequence. In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholders often have instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we become involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of management, and, if adversely determined, could require us to pay substantial damages. If we fail to manage expansion effectively, our revenue and expenses could be adversely affected. Our ability to successfully offer products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We have significantly expanded the scope of our operations. The growth in business and relationships with customers and other third parties has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management systems and resources. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and will need to continue to train and manage our work force. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 