Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our revenue and earnings depend on the rates we charge our customers. We cannot raise utility rates in our regulated businesses without filing a petition with the appropriate governmental agency. If these agencies modify, delay, or deny our petition, our revenues will not increase and our earnings will decline unless we are able to reduce costs. The BPU regulates our public utility companies in New Jersey with respect to rates and charges for service, classification of accounts, awards of new service territory, acquisitions, financings and other matters. That means, for example, that we cannot raise the utility rates we charge to our customers without first filing a petition with the BPU and going through a lengthy administrative process. In much the same way, the PSC regulates our public utility companies in Delaware. We cannot give assurance of when we will request approval for any such matter, nor can we predict whether the BPU or PSC will approve, deny or reduce the amount of such requests. Certain costs of doing business are not completely within our control. The failure to obtain any rate increase would prevent us from increasing our revenues and, unless we are able to reduce costs, would result in reduced earnings. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including water quality and wastewater effluent quality regulations, as well as other state and local regulations. Compliance with those laws and regulations requires us to incur costs and we are subject to fines or other sanctions for non-compliance. The EPA and DEP regulate our operations in New Jersey with respect to water supply, treatment and distribution systems and the quality of the water. Our operations in Delaware are regulated by the EPA, DNREC, DPH, and DRBC with respect to water supply, treatment and distribution systems and the quality of water. Federal, New Jersey and Delaware regulations relating to water quality require us to perform expanded types of testing to ensure that our water meets state and federal water quality requirements. We are subject to EPA regulations under the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, which include the Lead and Copper Rule, the maximum contaminant levels established for various volatile organic compounds, the Federal Surface Water Treatment Rule and the Total Coliform Rule. There are also similar state regulations by the DEP in New Jersey. The DEP and DPH monitor our activities and review the results of water quality tests that we perform for adherence to applicable regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory agencies are continually reviewing regulations governing the limits of certain organic compounds found in the water as byproducts of treatment. We are also subject to regulations related to fire protection services. In Delaware, fire protection is regulated statewide by the Office of State Fire Marshal. In New Jersey there is no state-wide fire protection regulatory agency. However, state regulations exist as to the size of piping required regarding the provision of fire protection services. The cost of compliance with the water and wastewater effluent quality standards depends in part on the limits set in the regulations and on the method selected to implement them. If new or more restrictive standards are imposed, the cost of compliance could be very high and have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations if we cannot recover those costs through our rates that we charge our customers. The cost of compliance with fire protection requirements could also be high and make us less profitable if we cannot recover those costs through our rates charged to our customers. 10 Index In addition, if we fail to comply with environmental or other laws and regulations to which our business is subject, we could be fined or subject to other sanctions, which could adversely impact our business or results of operations. We are currently appealing a notice of violation and request for corrective action issued by the Delaware Fire Marshal regarding the alleged failure of one of the community water systems operated by Tidewater to meet Delaware fire protection requirements. If our appeal is unsuccessful, our operating results could be materially affected. In July 2005, Tidewater received a notice of violation and request for corrective action issued by the Delaware Fire Marshal regarding the alleged failure of one of the community water systems operated by Tidewater to meet Delaware fire protection requirements. Tidewater appealed the Fire Marshal’s decision with the Delaware State Fire Prevention Commission (the “SFPC’) and, in November 2005, the SFPC denied Tidewater’s appeal. In December 2005, Tidewater filed an appeal of the SFPC’s decision with the Sussex County Superior Court in Delaware, which is still pending. There are approximately 67 of our other systems that may not meet the Delaware Fire Marshal’s recent interpretation of the fire protection requirements. If the Delaware Fire Marshal’s interpretation of the regulations is upheld upon appeal, we may be required to make corrections to the system at issue with an estimated cost of $1.6 million, and there is a possibility that the Delaware Fire Marshal could subsequently issue notices of violation and requests for corrective action for some or all of 67 of our other community systems. At this time, we cannot predict how many community water systems would ultimately require corrective action in that case, the time of the required corrective actions, or the costs we would incur to take the actions. We will apply to the PSC to increase base rates to recover the costs of any such corrective actions. However, if corrective actions need to be taken at several community water systems, our costs could be significant, and to the extent the PSC does not approve rate increases to offset these costs, or if there is a significant delay in receiving approval for such rate increases, such costs could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We depend upon our ability to raise money in the capital markets to finance some of the costs of complying with laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations or to pay for some of the costs of improvements to or the expansion of our utility system assets. Our regulated utility companies cannot issue debt or equity securities without regulatory approval. We require financing to fund the ongoing capital program for the improvement of our utility system assets and for planned expansion of those systems. We expect to spend between $122 million and $194 million for capital projects through 2009. We must obtain regulatory approval to sell debt or equity securities to raise money for these projects. If sufficient capital is not available or the cost of capital is too high, or if the regulatory authorities deny a petition of ours to sell debt or equity securities, we may not be able to meet the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations or the costs of improving and expanding our utility system assets to the level we believe necessary. This might result in the imposition of fines or restrictions on our operations and may curtail our ability to improve upon and expand our utility system assets. Weather conditions and overuse of underground aquifers may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services and our ability to supply water to customers. Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate supply of water. Unexpected conditions may interfere with our water supply sources. Drought and overuse of underground aquifers may limit the availability of ground and/or surface water. Freezing weather may also contribute to water transmission interruptions caused by pipe and/or main breakage. Any interruption in our water supply could cause a reduction in our revenue and profitability. These factors might adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers. Governmental drought restrictions might result in decreased use of water services and can adversely affect our revenue and earnings. 11 Index Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect demand for our water service and our revenues. Demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional consumption of water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand may vary with temperature and rainfall levels. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. Our water sources may become contaminated by naturally-occurring or man-made compounds and events. This may cause disruption in services and impose costs to restore the water to required levels of quality. Our sources of water may become contaminated by naturally-occurring or man-made compounds and events. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to install treatment equipment or substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source through our transmission and distribution systems. We may also incur significant costs in treating the contaminated water through the use of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. Our inability to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner may reduce our revenues and make us less profitable. We face competition from other water and wastewater utilities and service providers which might hinder our growth and reduce our profitability. We face risks of competition from other utilities authorized by federal, state or local agencies. Once a state utility regulator grants a franchise to a utility to serve a specific territory, that utility has an exclusive right to service that territory. Although a new franchise offers some protection against competitors, the pursuit of franchises is competitive, especially in Delaware where new franchises may be awarded to utilities based upon competitive negotiation. Competing utilities have challenged, and may in the future challenge, our applications for new franchises. Also, third parties entering into long-term agreements to operate municipal systems might adversely affect us and our long-term agreements to supply water on a contract basis to municipalities, which adversely affect our operating results. We have a long-term contractual obligation for water and wastewater system operation and maintenance under which we may incur costs in excess of payments received. Middlesex Water Company and USA-PA operate and maintain the water and wastewater systems of the City of Perth Amboy, New Jersey under a 20-year contract expiring in 2018. This contract does not protect us against incurring costs in excess of revenues we earn pursuant to the contract. There can be no absolute assurance that we will not experience losses resulting from this contract. Losses under this contract or our failure or inability to perform may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, in connection with the contract, Perth Amboy, through the Middlesex County Improvement Authority, issued approximately $68.0 million in three series of bonds. Middlesex guaranteed one of those series of bonds, designated the Series C Serial Bonds, in the principal amount of approximately $26.3 million. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $23.4 million of the Series C Serial Bonds remain outstanding. If Perth Amboy defaults on its obligations to pay the bonds we have guaranteed, we would have to raise funds to meet our obligations under that guarantee. 12 Index An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater assets, operations, contracts or companies. Any pending or future acquisitions we decide to undertake may involve risks. The acquisition and/or operation of water and wastewater systems is an important element in our growth strategy. This strategy depends on identifying suitable opportunities and reaching mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates or contract partners. These negotiations, as well as the integration of acquired businesses, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources. Further, acquisitions may result in dilution of our equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, fluctuations in quarterly results and other related expenses. In addition, the assets, operations, contracts or companies we acquire may not achieve the sales and profitability expected. The current concentration of our business in central New Jersey and Delaware makes us susceptible to any adverse development in local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions. Our Middlesex System provides water services to retail customers who are located primarily in eastern Middlesex County, New Jersey and provides water under wholesale contracts to the Township of Edison, the Boroughs of Highland Park and Sayreville, and both the Old Bridge and the Marlboro Township Municipal Utilities Authorities, and the City of Rahway in Union County, New Jersey. Our Tidewater System provides water services to retail customers in the State of Delaware. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions in a relatively concentrated geographic area. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. In addition, any such change would have a disproportionate effect on us, compared to water utility companies that do not have such a geographic concentration. The necessity for increased security has and may continue to result in increased operating costs. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the continuing threats to the health and security of the United States of America, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We are at risk for terrorist attacks and have incurred, and will continue to incur increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies from such risks. Our ability to achieve growth in Delaware is somewhat dependent on the residential building market in the territories we serve. If housing starts decline significantly, our rate of growth may not meet our expectations. We expect our revenues to increase from customer growth in Delaware for our regulated water operations and, to a lesser degree, our regulated wastewater operations as a result of the anticipated construction and sale of new housing units in the territories we serve. Although the residential building market in Delaware has experienced growth in recent years, this growth may not continue in the future. If housing starts in the Delaware territories we serve decline significantly as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our revenue growth may not meet our expectations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. 13 Index We have restrictions on our dividends. There can also be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Indenture of Mortgage dated as of April 1, 1927, as supplemented, impose conditions on our ability to pay dividends. We have paid dividends on our common stock each year since 1912 and have increased the amount of dividends paid each year since 1973. Our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, applicable regulations and other factors, including the timeliness and adequacy of rate increases, will determine both our ability to pay dividends on common stock and the amount of those dividends. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. If we are unable to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due or we default under certain other provisions of our loan documents, our indebtedness could be accelerated and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due will depend upon our current and future performance. Our performance is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We believe that our cash generated from operations, and, if necessary, borrowings under our existing credit facilities, will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. If, however, we do not generate sufficient cash, we may be required to refinance our obligations or sell additional equity, which may be on terms that are not as favorable to us. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or sale of equity will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our failure to comply with certain provisions contained in our trust indentures and loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness could lead to a default under these documents, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. We depend significantly on the services of the members of our senior management team, and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior management team. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management or are unable to hire and retain experienced management personnel, it could affect our operating results. We are subject to anti-takeover measures that may be used by existing management to discourage, delay or prevent changes of control that might benefit non-management shareholders. Subsection 10A of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, known as the Shareholder Protection Act, applies to us. The Shareholder Protection Act deters merger proposals, tender offers or other attempts to effect changes in our control that are not negotiated and approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, we have a classified Board of Directors, which means only one-third of the Directors are elected each year. A classified Board can make it harder for an acquirer to gain control by voting its candidates onto the Board of Directors and may also deter merger proposals and tender offers. Our Board of Directors also has the ability, subject to obtaining BPU approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock having such number of shares, designation, preferences, voting rights, limitations and other rights as the Board of Directors may fix. This could be used by the Board of Directors to discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition that might benefit non-management shareholders. 14 Index Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 