Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our revenue and earnings depend on the rates we charge our customers. We cannot raise utility rates without filing a petition with the appropriate governmental agency. If these agencies modify, delay, or deny our petition, our revenues will not increase and our earnings will decline unless we are able to reduce costs. The BPU regulates all of our public utility companies in New Jersey with respect to rates and charges for service, classification of accounts, awards of new service territory, acquisitions, financings and other matters. That means, for example, that we cannot raise the utility rates we charge to our customers without first filing a petition with the BPU and going through a lengthy administrative process. In much the same way, the PSC regulates our public utility companies in Delaware. We cannot give assurances of when we will request approval for any such matter, nor can we predict whether the BPU or PSC will approve, deny or reduce the amount of such requests. Certain costs of doing business are not within our control. The failure to obtain any rate increase would prevent us from increasing our revenues and, unless we are able to reduce costs, would result in reduced earnings. We are subject to penalties unless we comply with environmental laws and regulations, including water quality regulations. Compliance with those laws and regulations impose costs on us. The EPA and DEP regulate our operations in New Jersey with respect to water supply, treatment and distribution systems and the quality of the water, as do the EPA, DNREC, DPH and DRBC with respect to operations in Delaware. Federal, New Jersey and Delaware regulations relating to water quality require us to perform expanded types of testing to ensure that our water meets state and federal water quality requirements. We are subject to EPA regulations under the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, which include the Lead and Copper Rule, the maximum contaminant levels established for various volatile organic compounds, the Federal Surface Water Treatment Rule and the Total Coliform Rule. There are also similar state regulations by the DEP in New Jersey. The DEP and DPH monitor our activities and review the results of water quality tests that we perform for adherence to applicable regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing current regulations governing the limits of certain organic compounds found in the water as byproducts of treatment. The cost to water companies of complying with the proposed water quality standards depends in part on the limits set in the regulations and on the method selected to implement them. Those costs could be very high and make us less profitable if we cannot recover those costs through our rates that we charge our customers. We depend upon our ability to raise money in the capital markets to finance some of the costs of complying with laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations or to pay for some of the costs of improvements or the expansion of our utility system assets. We cannot issue debt or equity securities without regulatory approval. We require financing to fund the ongoing capital program for the improvement of our utility system assets and for planned expansion of that system. We project that we may expend approximately $156.7 million for capital projects over the next three years. We must have regulatory approval to sell debt or equity securities to raise money for these projects. If sufficient capital is not available or the cost of capital is too high, or if the regulatory authorities deny a petition of ours to sell debt or equity securities, we would not be able to meet the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations or the costs of improving and expanding our utility system assets. This might result in the imposition of fines or restrictions on our operations and may curtail our ability to improve upon and expand our utility system assets. 11 Weather conditions and overuse of underground aquifers may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services, and our ability to supply water to customers. Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate supply of water. Unexpected conditions may interfere with our water supply sources. Drought and overuse of underground aquifers may limit the availability of ground and surface water. These factors might adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers. Governmental drought restrictions might result in decreased use of water services and can adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Additionally, cool and wet weather may reduce consumption demands, also adversely affecting our revenue and earnings. Freezing weather may also contribute to water transmission interruptions caused by pipe and main breakage. Any interruption in our water supply could cause a reduction in our revenue and profitability. Our water sources may become contaminated by naturally-occurring or man-made compounds and events. This may cause disruption in services and impose costs to restore the water to required levels of quality. Our sources of water may become contaminated by naturally-occurring or man-made compounds and events. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to install treatment equipment or substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source through our transmission and distribution systems. We may also incur significant costs in treating the contaminated water through the use of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. Our inability to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner may reduce our revenues and make us less profitable. The necessity for increased security has and may continue to result in increased operating costs. In the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the ensuing threats to the health and security of the United States of America, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We are at risk for terrorist attacks and have and will continue to incur increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies from such risks. We face competition from other utilities and service providers which might hinder our growth and reduce our profitability. We face risks of competition from other utilities authorized by federal, state or local agencies. Once a utility regulator grants a service territory to a utility, that utility is usually the only one to service that territory. Although a new territory offers some protection against competitors, the pursuit of service territories is competitive, especially in Delaware where new territories may be awarded to utilities based upon competitive negotiation. Competing utilities have challenged, and may in the future challenge, our applications for new service territories. Also, third parties entering into long-term agreements to operate municipal systems might adversely affect us and our long-term agreements to supply water on a contract basis to municipalities. We have a long-term contractual obligation for water and wastewater system operation and maintenance under which we may incur costs in excess of payments received. Middlesex Water Company and USA-PA operate and maintain the water and wastewater systems of the City of Perth Amboy, New Jersey under a multi-year contract. This contract does not protect us against incurring costs in excess of payments we will receive pursuant to the contract. There can be no assurance that we will not experience losses resulting from this contract. Losses under this contract or our failure or inability to perform 12 may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, as of December 31, 2005, approximately $23.9 million of Perth Amboy's bonds we have guaranteed remain outstanding. If Perth Amboy defaults on its obligations to pay the bonds we have guaranteed, we would have to raise funds to meet our obligations under that guarantee. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater systems. Any pending or future acquisitions we decide to undertake may involve risks. The acquisition of water and wastewater systems is an important element in our growth strategy. This strategy depends on identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and reaching mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management's time and resources. Further, acquisitions may result in dilution of our equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, fluctuations in quarterly results and other acquisition related expenses. In addition, the business and other assets we acquire may not achieve the sales and profitability expected. We have restrictions on our dividends. There can also be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Indenture of Mortgage dated as of April 1, 1927, as supplemented, impose conditions on our ability to pay dividends. We have paid dividends on our common stock each year since 1912 and have increased the amount of dividends paid each year since 1973. Our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, applicable regulations and other factors, including the timeliness and adequacy of rate increases, will determine both our ability to pay dividends on common stock and the amount of those dividends. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. We are subject to anti-takeover measures that may be used by existing management to discourage, delay or prevent changes of control that might benefit non-management shareholders. Subsection 10A of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, known as the Shareholder Protection Act, applies to us. The Shareholder Protection Act deters merger proposals, tender offers or other attempts to effect changes in our control that are not negotiated and approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, we have a classified Board of Directors, which means only one-third of the Directors are elected each year. A classified Board can make it harder for an acquirer to gain control by voting its candidates onto the Board of Directors and may also deter merger proposals and tender offers. Our Board of Directors also has the ability, subject to obtaining BPU approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock having such number of shares, designation, preferences, voting rights, limitations and other rights as the Board of Directors may fix. This could be used by the Board of Directors to discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition that might benefit non-management shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 13 