Item 1A RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face; others, either unforeseen or currently deemed less significant, may also have a negative impact on our company. If any of the following actually occurs, our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our funding obligations and pension expenses are affected by factors outside our control, including the performance of plan assets, interest rates, actuarial data and experience and changes in laws and regulations.The future funding obligations for the company's U.S. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. The company has taken steps to mitigate the risk related to the company's pension plans by beginning the process to terminate our U.S. defined benefit pension plans in favor of a new defined contribution retirement program. During the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we converted active employees to this new defined contribution program. Concurrent with this change, effective September 1, 2012, we ceased ongoing benefit accruals under the defined benefit pension plans that we plan to terminate in the future. We expect the termination process for the defined benefit pension plans to be completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2014. At the time of termination, we will be required to make additional cash contributions to the plans, which we currently estimate will total between $50 million to $55 million. Due to the plan to terminate this defined benefit plan, the company has changed the plan assets target allocation to 100% fixed income to reduce the risk of exposure to equities as we proceed to a planned termination. The plan is in process of transitioning the asset mix to meet this target. However, the plan still holds 10% of it's assets in equities as of year end. If the market values of the plan assets decline significantly, our future pension expenses and funding obligations could increase significantly. Decreases in interest rates that are not offset by contributions and asset returns could also increase the company's obligations under such plans. The company may be legally required to make contributions to it's U.S. pension plans in the future, and those contributions could be material. In addition, if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for the company's defined benefit pension plan outside the United States, the company could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect operating cash flows.Sustained downturn in the economy could adversely impact our access to capital.The disruption experienced in the global economic and financial markets has adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets, at times reducing the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. Conditions such as these could re-emerge in the future. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets could be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The resulting lack of available credit, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to take advantage of market opportunities and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially and adversely impacted by these market conditions. The extent of any impact would depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. Our credit agreements contain performance covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. Although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control.We may not be successful in implementing and managing our growth strategy.We have established a set of key strategic goals for our business. Included among these are specific targets for growth in net sales and operating profit as a percentage of net sales. Our strategic plan assumes growth targets will be achieved by pursuing and winning new business in the following areas:•Primary Markets — Capture additional market share within our primary markets by offering superior solutions and ever expanding product categories, to customers who value space as a strategic tool.•Adjacent Markets — Further apply the company's core skills in adjacent customer segments such as small business, higher education, and hospitality.•Global Footprint — Expand the company's geographic reach in areas of the world with significant growth potential.•New Products — Through further investment in design and research the company will continue to offer new products with the goal of deriving greater than 20% of net sales from new product introductions.•Specialty & Consumer — We will utilize this segment to further diversify our sales channel, increase brand recognition for all markets, and improve our access to key product specifiers.While we have confidence that our strategic plan reflects opportunities that are appropriate and achievable and that we have anticipated and will manage the associated risks, there is the possibility that the strategy may not deliver the projected results due to inadequate execution, incorrect assumptions, sub-optimal resource allocation, or changing customer requirements.- 6-There is no assurance that our current product and service offering will allow us to meet these goals. Accordingly, we believe we will be required to continually invest in the research, design, and development of new products and services. There is no assurance that such investments will have commercially successful results.Certain growth opportunities may require us to invest in acquisitions, alliances, and the startup of new business ventures. These investments may not perform according to plan.Future efforts to expand our business within developing economies, particularly within China and India, may expose us to the effects of political and economic instability. Such instability may impact our ability to compete for business. It may also put the availability and/or value of our capital investments within these regions at risk. These expansion efforts expose us to operating environments with complex, changing, and in some cases, inconsistently applied legal and regulatory requirements. Developing knowledge and understanding of these requirements poses a significant challenge, and failure to remain compliant with them could limit our ability to continue doing business in these locations. Pursuing our growth plan in new and adjacent markets, as well as within developing economies, will require us to find effective new channels of distribution. There is no assurance that we can develop or otherwise identify these channels of distribution. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be successful in winning new business.We are one of several companies competing for new business within the furniture industry. Many of our competitors offer similar categories of products, including office seating, systems and freestanding office furniture, casegoods, storage, and residential and healthcare furniture solutions. We believe that our innovative product design, functionality, quality, depth of knowledge, and strong network of distribution partners differentiates us in the marketplace. However, increased market pricing pressure could make it difficult for us to win new business with certain customers and within certain market segments at acceptable profit margins. Adverse economic and industry conditions could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Customer demand within the contract office furniture industry is affected by various macro-economic factors; general corporate profitability, white-collar employment levels, new office construction rates, and existing office vacancy rates are among the most influential factors. History has shown that declines in these measures can have an adverse effect on overall office furniture demand. Additionally, factors and changes specific to our industry, such as developments in technology, governmental standards and regulations, and health and safety issues can influence demand. There are current and future economic and industry conditions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Other macroeconomic developments, such as the recent recessions in Europe, the debt crisis in certain countries in the European Union, and the economic slow down in Asia could negatively affect the company's ability to conduct business in those geographies. The continuing debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of the company's European customers and potentially undermine the financial health of the company's suppliers and customers in other parts of the world. Financial difficulties experienced by the company's suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense.Our business presence outside the United States exposes us to certain risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.We have significant manufacturing and sales operations in the United Kingdom, which represents our largest marketplace outside the United States. We also have manufacturing operations in China. Additionally, our products are sold internationally through wholly-owned subsidiaries or branches in various countries including Canada, Mexico, Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Japan, Australia, Singapore, China, Hong Kong, and India. In certain other regions of the world, our products are offered primarily through independent dealerships. Doing business internationally exposes us to certain risks, many of which are beyond our control and could potentially impact our ability to design, develop, manufacture, or sell products in certain countries. These factors could include, but would not necessarily be limited to:•Political, social, and economic conditions•Legal and regulatory requirements •Labor and employment practices•Cultural practices and norms•Natural disasters•Security and health concerns•Protection of intellectual propertyIn some countries, the currencies in which we import and export products can differ. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between these currencies could negatively impact our business. Additionally, tariff and import regulations, international tax policies and rates, and changes in U.S. and international monetary policies may have an adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition. - 7-Disruptions in the supply of raw and component materials could adversely affect our manufacturing and assembly operations.We rely on outside suppliers to provide on-time shipments of the various raw materials and component parts used in our manufacturing and assembly processes. The timeliness of these deliveries is critical to our ability to meet customer demand. Any disruptions in this flow of delivery could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Increases in the market prices of manufacturing materials may negatively affect our profitability.The costs of certain manufacturing materials used in our operations are sensitive to shifts in commodity market prices. In particular, the costs of steel, plastic, aluminum components, and particleboard are sensitive to the market prices of commodities such as raw steel, aluminum, crude oil, lumber, and resins. Increases in the market prices of these commodities may have an adverse impact on our profitability if we are unable to offset them with strategic sourcing, continuous improvement initiatives or increased prices to our customers. Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business.Our ability to manage existing relationships within our network of independent dealers is crucial to our ongoing success. Although the loss of any single dealer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall business, our business within a given market could be negatively affected by disruptions in our dealer network caused by the termination of commercial working relationships, ownership transitions, or dealer financial difficulties.If dealers go out of business or restructure, we may suffer losses because they may not be able to pay for products already delivered to them. Also, dealers may experience financial difficulties, creating the need for outside financial support, which may not be easily obtained. In the past, we have, on occasion, agreed to provide direct financial assistance through term loans, lines of credit, and/or loan guarantees to certain dealers. Increasing competition for highly skilled and talented workers could adversely affect our business.The successful implementation of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain a skilled workforce. The increasing competition for highly skilled and talented employees could result in higher compensation costs, difficulties in maintaining a capable workforce, and leadership succession planning challenges. Costs related to product defects could adversely affect our profitability.We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs, and product liability costs. These expenses relative to product sales vary and could increase. We maintain reserves for product defect-related costs based on estimates and our knowledge of circumstances that indicate the need for such reserves. We cannot, however, be certain that these reserves will be adequate to cover actual product defect-related claims in the future. Any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on operations.We are subject to risks associated with self-insurance related to health benefits.We are self-insured for our health benefits and maintain per employee stop loss coverage; however, we retain the insurable risk at an aggregate level. Therefore unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of our insured limits could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and operating results. See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the company’s retention level.Government and other regulations could adversely affect our business.Government and other regulations apply to the sale of many of our products. Failure to comply with these regulations or failure to obtain approval of products from certifying agencies could adversely affect the sales of these products and have a material negative impact on operating results. - 8-Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone