ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important factors that may cause results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Volatility of oil and gas prices significantly affects our results and profitability. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices with any certainty. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Factors that can cause price fluctuations include the level of global demand for petroleum products, foreign supply of oil and gas, the establishment of and compliance with production quotas by oil-exporting countries, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels and overall political and economic conditions in oil producing countries. Increases and decreases in prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow from banks may be subject to redetermination based on changes in prices. In addition, we may have ceiling test writedowns when prices decline. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that can be produced economically. Thus, we may experience material increases or decreases in reserve quantities solely as a result of price changes and not as a result of drilling or well performance. Oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Our financial results are more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices than oil prices because most of our production and reserves are natural gas. Changes in oil and gas prices impact both estimated future net revenue and the estimated quantity of proved reserves. Any reduction in reserves, including reductions due to price fluctuations, can reduce the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and adversely affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to obtain additional capital for our exploration and development activities. 10 Lower oil and gas prices and other factors may cause us to record ceiling test writedowns. Lower oil and gas prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write-downs. We use the full cost method to account for oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop crude oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of crude oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “ceiling limit” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10% plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess against earnings. This is called a “ceiling test writedown.” Under the accounting rules, we are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. A ceiling test writedown does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce stockholders’ equity and earnings. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low. Information concerning our reserves and future net revenues estimates is inherently uncertain. Estimates of oil and gas reserves, by necessity, are projections based on engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that are difficult to measure. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as future production, oil and gas prices, operating costs, development costs and remedial costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. As a result, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas and of future net cash flows expected therefrom may vary substantially. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our reserves will ultimately be produced or that any undeveloped reserves will be developed. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. We must replace reserves we produce. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional, economically recoverable oil and gas reserves. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we can find, develop or acquire replacement reserves. One offset to the obvious benefits afforded by higher product prices especially for small to mid-cap companies in this industry, is that quality domestic oil and gas reserves are becoming harder to find. Reserves to be produced from undiscovered reservoirs appear to be smaller, and the risks to find these reserves are greater. Reports from the Energy Information Administration indicate that on-shore domestic finding costs are on the rise, and that the average reserves added per well are declining. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business. We plan to continue growing our reserves through acquisitions. Acquired properties can be subject to significant unknown liabilities. Prior to completing an acquisition, it is generally not feasible to conduct a detailed review of each individual property to be acquired in an acquisition. Even a detailed review or inspection of each property may not reveal all existing or potential liabilities associated with owning or operating the property. Moreover, some potential liabilities, such as environmental liabilities related to groundwater contamination, may not be discovered even when a review or inspection is performed. Our initial reserve estimates for acquired properties may be inaccurate. Downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, including reserves added through acquisitions, could require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which would reduce our earnings and our stockholders’ equity. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may have to assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. 11 Drilling and operating activities are high risk activities that subject us to a variety of factors that we can not control. These factors include availability of workover and drilling rigs, well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pollution, releases of toxic gases and other environmental hazards and risks. Any of these operating hazards could result in substantial losses to us. In addition, we incur the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered and there is no assurance that we will recover all or any portion of its investment in wells drilled or re-entered. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities which are owned by others. The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions could all affect our ability to produce and market our oil and gas. We may not be insured against all of the operating hazards to which our business is exposed. Our operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the exploration for, and development and production of oil and gas including blowouts, fires and other casualties. We maintain insurance coverage customary for operations of a similar nature, but losses could arise from uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Competition for oil and gas reserve acquisitions is significant. We may compete with major oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas companies and individual producers and operators, some of which have financial and personnel resources substantially in excess of those available to us. As a result, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Our ability to acquire and develop additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects for future development activities. In addition, the oil and gas industry as a whole also competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers. The price and availability of alternative energy sources could adversely affect our revenue. The market for our oil, gas and natural gas liquids production depends on factors beyond our control, including domestic and foreign political conditions, the overall level of supply of and demand for oil, gas and natural gas liquids, the price of imports of oil and gas, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities and overall economic conditions. Our business is subject to extensive environmental regulations, and to laws that can give rise to liabilities from environmental contamination. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage, may arise at many locations, including properties in which we have an ownership interest but no operational control, properties we formerly owned or operated and sites where our wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties that we currently own or operate. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from any noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 