Risk Factors There are many factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important factors that may cause results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. 5 Oil and gas prices are volatile and could adversely affect our revenues, cash flow, liquidity and reserve estimates. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices with any certainty. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Factors that can cause price fluctuations include changes in supply and demand, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, political and economic conditions in oil producing countries and other factors that are beyond our control. Natural gas prices affect us more than oil prices because most of our production and reserves are natural gas. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that can be produced economically. Changes in oil and gas prices impact both estimated future net revenue and the estimated quantity of proved reserves. Price increases may permit additional quantities of reserves to be produced economically, and price decreases may render uneconomic the production of reserves previously classified as proved. Thus, we may experience material increases or decreases in reserve quantities solely as a result of price changes and not as a result of drilling or well performance. Lower oil and gas prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write-downs. We use the full cost method to account for oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop crude oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of crude oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a "ceiling limit" which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10% plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce stockholders' equity and earnings. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low. Estimates of proved reserves and the estimated future net revenue from such reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The interpretation of such data is a subjective process dependent upon the quality of the data and the decision-making and judgment of reservoir engineers. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves, which may in turn adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and the availability of capital resources. One should not assume that the present value of proved reserves is equal to the current fair market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than those as of the date of the estimate. The timing of both the production and the expenses with respect to the development and production of oil and gas properties will affect the timing of future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. Regulation Our exploration, development, production and marketing operations are subject to extensive rules and regulations by federal, state and local authorities. Numerous federal, state and local departments and agencies have issued rules and regulations, binding on the oil and gas industry, some of which carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. State statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states also have statutes and regulations governing conservation and safety matters, including the unitization and pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells and the spacing of such wells. Such statutes and regulations may limit the rate at which oil and gas otherwise could be produced from our 6 properties. These statutes, along with the regulations interpreting the statutes, generally are intended to prevent waste of oil and natural gas, and to protect correlative rights to produce oil and natural gas by assigning allowable rates of production to each well or proration unit. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. Because these rules and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are not able to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions, which affect the marketing of gas we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of such production. Since the mid-1980s, the FERC has issued various orders that have significantly altered the marketing and transportation of gas. These orders resulted in a fundamental restructuring of interstate pipeline sales and transportation services, including the unbundling by interstate pipelines of the sales, transportation, storage and other components of the city-gate sales services such pipelines previously performed. These FERC actions were designed to increase competition within all phases of the gas industry. The interstate regulatory framework may enhance our ability to market and transport our gas, although it may also subject us to greater competition and to the more restrictive pipeline imbalance tolerances and greater associated penalties for violation of such tolerances. Our sales of oil and natural gas liquids are not presently regulated and are made at market prices. The price we receive from the sale of those products is affected by the cost of transporting the products to market. The FERC has implemented regulations establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil pipelines, which, generally, would index such rate to inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. We are not able to predict with any certainty what effect, if any, these regulations will have on us. Other factors being equal, the regulations may, over time, tend to increase transportation costs which may have the effect of reducing wellhead prices for oil and natural gas liquids. Environmental By nature of our oil and gas operations, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations controlling the generation, use, storage and discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Numerous governmental departments issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling or production commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities on certain lands lying within protected areas, restrict the rate of oil and gas production, require remedial actions to prevent pollution from former operations and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. In addition, these laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities and penalties for failure to comply with them or for any contamination resulting from our operations. We believe we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable environmental requirements. We do not believe costs relating to these laws and regulations have had a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition in the past. As these laws and regulations become more stringent and complex, there is no assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations regarding the protection of the environment will not have such an impact in the future. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA `90"), and similar legislation enacted in Texas, Louisiana and other coastal states, addresses oil spill prevention and control and significantly expands liability exposure across all segments of the oil and gas industry. OPA `90 and such similar legislation and related regulations impose on us a variety of obligations related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills. OPA `90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liabilities upon each responsible party for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or the site where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint 7 and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. We are able to control directly the operation of only those wells with respect to which we act as operator. Notwithstanding our lack of direct control over wells operated by others, the failure of an operator other than us to comply with applicable environmental regulations may, in certain circumstances, be attributed to us. We do not believe that we will be required to incur any material capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental requirements. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and analogous state laws govern the handling and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. Wastes that are classified as hazardous under RCRA are subject to stringent handling, recordkeeping, disposal and reporting requirements. RCRA specifically excludes from the definition of hazardous waste "drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy." However, these wastes may be regulated by the EPA or state agencies as solid waste. Moreover, many ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, are regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. State water discharge regulations and federal waste discharge permitting requirements adopted pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act prohibit, or are expected in the future to prohibit, the discharge of produced water and sand and other substances related to the oil and gas industry into coastal waters. Although the costs to comply with such mandates under state or federal law may be significant, the entire industry will experience similar costs, and we do not believe that these costs will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operations. Insurance Our operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the exploration for, and development and production of oil and gas including blowouts, fires and other casualties. We maintain insurance coverage customary for operations of a similar nature, but losses could arise from uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Employees As of March 31, 2005, we had two full-time and three part-time employees. We believe that relations with these employees are generally satisfactory. Our employees are not covered by collective bargaining arrangements. From time to time, we utilize the services of independent contractors to perform various field and other services. Experienced personnel are available in all disciplines should the need to hire additional staff arise. Office Facilities We maintain our principal offices at 214 W. Texas, Suite 1101, Midland, Texas pursuant to a month to month lease. Title to Properties As is customary in the oil and gas industry, only a preliminary title examination is conducted at the time properties believed to be suitable for drilling operations are acquired by us. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant defects, if any, before proceeding with operations. A thorough title examination has been performed with respect to substantially all leasehold producing properties currently owned by us. We believe the title to our leasehold properties is good and defensible in accordance with standards generally acceptable in the oil and gas industry subject to such exceptions that, in the opinion of counsel employed in the various areas in which we have conducted exploration activities, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use of such properties. 8 The leasehold properties we own are subject to royalty, overriding royalty and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. The properties may be subject to burdens such as liens incident to operating agreements and current taxes, development obligations under oil and gas leases and other encumbrances, easements and restrictions. We do not believe any of these burdens will materially interfere with its use of these properties Substantially all of our properties are currently mortgaged under a deed of trust to secure funding through a revolving line of credit. Mexco Energy Corporation files quarterly, yearly and other reports with the SEC. You may obtain a copy of any materials filed by Mexco Energy Corporation with the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0300. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Mexco Energy Corporation also employs the Public Register's Annual Report Service which can provide you a copy of our annual report at http://www.prars.com, free of charge, as soon as practicable after providing such report to the SEC. We currently do not maintain an internet website. 