ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important factors that may cause results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Volatility of oil and gas prices significantly affects our results and profitability. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices with any certainty. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Factors that can cause price fluctuations include the level of global demand for petroleum products, foreign supply of oil and gas, the establishment of and compliance with production quotas by oil-exporting countries, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels and overall political and economic conditions in oil producing countries. Increases and decreases in prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow from banks may be subject to redetermination based on changes in prices. In addition, we may have ceiling test writedowns when prices decline. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that can be produced economically. Thus, we may experience material increases or decreases in reserve quantities solely as a result of price changes and not as a result of drilling or well performance. Oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Our financial results are more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices than oil prices because most of our production and reserves are natural gas. Changes in oil and gas prices impact both estimated future net revenue and the estimated quantity of proved reserves. Any reduction in reserves, including reductions due to price fluctuations, can reduce the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and adversely affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to obtain additional capital for our exploration and development activities. 12 Lower oil and gas prices and other factors may cause us to record ceiling test writedowns. Lower oil and gas prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write-downs. We use the full cost method to account for oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop crude oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of crude oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “ceiling limit” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10% plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess against earnings. This is called a “ceiling test writedown.” Under the accounting rules, we are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. A ceiling test writedown does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce stockholders’ equity and earning s. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low. Information concerning our reserves and future net revenues estimates is inherently uncertain. Estimates of oil and gas reserves, by necessity, are projections based on engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that are difficult to measure. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as future production, oil and gas prices, operating costs, development costs and remedial costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. As a result, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities o f oil and gas and of future net cash flows expected therefrom may vary substantially. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our reserves will ultimately be produced or that any undeveloped reserves will be developed. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on a twelve month un-weighted first-day-of-the-month average oil and gas prices for the twelve months prior to the date of the report. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. An increase in the differential between NYMEX and the reference or regional index price used to price our oil and gas would reduce our cash flow from operations. Our oil and gas is priced in the local markets where it is produced based on local or regional supply and demand factors. The prices we receive for our oil and gas are typically lower than the relevant benchmark prices, such as The New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”). The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, pipeline capacity and specifications, upsets in the midstream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. Additionally, insufficient pipeline capacity, lack of demand in any given operating area or other factors may cause the differential to increase in a particular area compared with other producing areas . During fiscal 2010, differentials averaged $3.43 per Bbl of oil and $0.21 per Mcf of gas. Increases in the differential between the benchmark prices for oil and gas and the wellhead price we receive could significantly reduce our revenues and our cash flow from operations. We must replace reserves we produce. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional, economically recoverable oil and gas reserves. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we can find, develop or acquire replacement reserves. One offset to the obvious benefits afforded by higher product prices especially for small to mid-cap companies in this industry, is that quality domestic oil and gas reserves are becoming harder to find. Reserves to be produced from undiscovered reservoirs appear to be smaller, and the risks to find these reserves are greater. Reports from the Energy Information Administration indicate that on-shore domestic finding costs are on the rise, and that the average reserves a dded per well are declining. 13 Approximately 40% of our total estimated net proved reserves at March 31, 2010 were undeveloped, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not able to successfully develop these reserves, we will be required to write-off these reserves. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could reduce the value of our common stock. Our exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. New wells that we drill may not be productive, or we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that crude oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry holes but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business. We plan to continue growing our reserves through acquisitions. Acquired properties can be subject to significant unknown liabilities. Prior to completing an acquisition, it is generally not feasible to conduct a detailed review of each individual property to be acquired in an acquisition. Even a detailed review or inspection of each property may not reveal all existing or potential liabilities associated with owning or operating the property. Moreover, some potential liabilities, such as environmental liabilities related to groundwater contamination, may not be discovered even when a review or inspection is performed. Our initial reserve estimates for acquired properties may be inaccurate. Downward adjustments to our estim ated proved reserves, including reserves added through acquisitions, could require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which would reduce our earnings and our stockholders’ equity. In addition, we may have to assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired companies, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisitions or opportunities that complement or expand our current business. Even if we do identify attractive candidates, we may not be able to complete the acquisition of them or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Our credit facility imposes certain direct limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions involving our company. Our credit facility also limits our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses. If we desire to engage in an acquisition that is otherwise prohibited by our credit facility, we will be required to seek the consent of our lenders in accordance with the requirements of the facility, which consent may be withheld by the lenders under our credit facility in their discretion. Furthermore, given the current situation in the credit markets, many lenders are reluctant to provide consents in any circumstances, including to allow accretive transactions. In addition, we could have difficulty integrating acquired businesses successfully into our existing business which could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses and adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional debt or issue additional equity to pay for any future acquisitions, subject to the limitations described above. We may not be able to fund the capital expenditures that will be required for us to increase reserves and production. We must make capital expenditures to develop our existing reserves and to discover new reserves. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and we expect to continue to do so in the future. 14 Volatility in oil and gas prices, the timing of our drilling programs and drilling results will affect our cash flow from operations. Lower prices and/or lower production will also decrease revenues and cash flow, thus reducing the amount of financial resources available to meet our capital requirements, including reducing the amount available to pursue our drilling opportunities. If our cash flow from operations does not increase as a result of planned capital expenditures, a greater percentage of our cash flow from operations will be required for debt service and operating expenses and our planned capital expenditures would, by necessity, be decreased. The borrowing base under our credit facility will be determined from time to time by the lender. Reductions in estimates of oil and gas reserves could result in a reduction in the borrowing base, which would reduce the amount of financial resources available under the credit facility to meet our capital requirements. Such a reduction could be the result of lower commodity prices and/or production, inability to drill or unfavorable drilling results, changes in oil and gas reserve engineering, the lenders’ inability to agree to an adequate borrowing base or adverse changes in the lenders’ practices regarding estimation of reserves. If cash flow from operations or our borrowing base decrease for any reason, our ability to undertake exploration and development activities could be adversely affected. As a result, our ability to replace production may be limited. In addition, if the borrowing base under the credit facility is reduced, we would be required to reduce our borrowings under the credit facility so that such borrowings do not exceed the borrowing base. This could further reduce the cash available to us for capital spending and, if we did not have sufficient capital to reduce our borrowing level, we may be in default under the credit facility. Failure to comply with covenants under our debt agreement could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our revolving credit facility agreement requires us to comply with certain customary covenants including limitations on disposition of assets, mergers and reorganizations. We are also obligated to meet certain financial covenants. For example, our revolving credit facility requires us to, among other things, maintain tangible net worth in accordance with computational guidelines contained in the related loan agreement. If we fail to meet any of these loan covenants, the lender under the revolving credit facility could accelerate the indebtedness and seek to foreclose on the pledged assets. Drilling and operating activities are high risk activities that subject us to a variety of factors that we can not control. These factors include availability of workover and drilling rigs, well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pollution, releases of toxic gases and other environmental hazards and risks. Any of these operating hazards could result in substantial losses to us. In addition, we incur the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered, and there is no assurance that we will recover all or any portion of its investment in wells drilled or re-entered. We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues. A substantial amount of our business activities are conducted through joint operating or other agreements under which we own working and royalty interests in natural gas and oil properties in which we do not operate. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties and their associated costs. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations could reduce our revenues and production. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities which are owned by others. The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions could all affect our ability to produce and market our oil and gas. 15 We may not be insured against all of the operating hazards to which our business is exposed. Our operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the exploration for, and development and production of oil and gas including blowouts, fires and other casualties. We maintain insurance coverage customary for operations of a similar nature, but losses could arise from uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Competition for oil and gas reserve acquisitions is significant. We may compete with major oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas companies and individual producers and operators, some of which have financial and personnel resources substantially in excess of those available to us. As a result, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Our ability to acquire and develop additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects for future development activities. In addition, the oil and gas industry as a whole also competes with other industries in supplying the energy an d fuel requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers. The price and availability of alternative energy sources could adversely affect our revenue. The market for our oil, gas and natural gas liquids production depends on factors beyond our control, including domestic and foreign political conditions, the overall level of supply of and demand for oil, gas and natural gas liquids, the price of imports of oil and gas, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities and overall economic conditions. The loss of our chief executive officer or other key personnel could adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategy. We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, upon the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Nicholas C. Taylor, our Chief Financial Officer, Tamala L. McComic, and other key personnel, who have extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing producing oil and gas properties and drilling prospects, maximizing production from oil and gas properties and developing and executing acquisitions and financing. We do not have key-man insurance on the lives of Mr. Taylor and Ms. McComic. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could, therefore, significantly and adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified individuals is intense and we may be unable to find or attract qualified replacements for our officers and key emp loyees on acceptable terms. We may be affected by one substantial shareholder. Nicholas C. Taylor beneficially owns approximately 46% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Taylor is also our President and Chief Executive Officer. As a result, Mr. Taylor has significant influence in matters voted on by our shareholders, including the election of our Board members. Mr. Taylor participates in all facets of our business and has a significant impact on both our business strategy and daily operations. The retirement, incapacity or death of Mr. Taylor, or any change in the power to vote shares beneficially owned by Mr. Taylor, could result in negative market or industry perception and could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to extensive environmental regulations, and to laws that can give rise to liabilities from environmental contamination. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage, may arise at many locations, including properties in which we have an ownership interest but no operational control, properties we formerly owned or operated and sites where our wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as a t properties that we currently own or operate. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from any noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. 16 Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact our revenues. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress to amend the federal SDWA to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under the SDWA and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and gas wells particularly in unconventional resource plays. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. The proposed legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting of hydraulic fracturing operations at the federal level . Any such added regulation could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens, and reduced production of natural gas and oil, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Increases in taxes on energy sources may adversely affect the company's operations. Federal, state and local governments which have jurisdiction in areas where the company operates impose taxes on the oil and natural gas products sold. Historically, there has been an on-going consideration by federal, state and local officials concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. Such matters are beyond the company's ability to accurately predict or control. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The current administration has proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to: (1) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (2) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (3) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (4) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become ef fective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition and it may adversely impact our ability to obtain funding under our revolving credit facility or in the capital markets. The credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial systems have had an impact on our business and our financial condition. An economic crisis could reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of (1) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a borrowing base redetermination, or (2) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK We have not and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The terms of our existing credit facility restricts the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, w hich may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. 17 We may issue additional shares of common stock in the future, which could cause dilution to all shareholders. We may seek to raise additional equity capital in the future. Any issuance of additional shares of our common stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of all shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Control by our executive officers and directors may limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage our potential acquisition by third parties. As of March 31, 2010, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 52% of our common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of our board of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The price of our common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. Mexco common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to fluctuations in commodity prices, variations in results of operations, legislative or regulatory changes, general trends in the industry, market conditions, and analysts’ estimates and other events in the oil and gas oil industry. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company. As a public company we incur legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), together with rules implemented by the SEC and applicable market regulators. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Failure of the Company's internal control over financial reporting could harm its business and financial results. The management of Mexco is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect Mexco's transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or d isposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 