ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important factors that may cause results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. 8 Oil and gas prices are volatile and could adversely affect our revenues, cash flow, liquidity and reserve estimates. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices with any certainty. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Factors that can cause price fluctuations include changes in supply and demand, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, political and economic conditions in oil producing countries and other factors that are beyond our control. Natural gas prices affect us more than oil prices because most of our production and reserves are natural gas. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that can be produced economically. Changes in oil and gas prices impact both estimated future net revenue and the estimated quantity of proved reserves. Price increases may permit additional quantities of reserves to be produced economically, and price decreases may render uneconomic the production of reserves previously classified as proved. Thus, we may experience material increases or decreases in reserve quantities solely as a result of price changes and not as a result of drilling or well performance. Lower oil and gas prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write-downs. We use the full cost method to account for oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop crude oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of crude oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a "ceiling limit" which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10% plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce stockholders' equity and earnings. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low. Estimates of oil and gas reserves, by necessity, are projections based on engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that are difficult to measure. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as future production, oil and gas prices, operating costs, development costs and remedial costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. As a result, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas and of future net cash flows expected therefrom may vary substantially. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our reserves will ultimately be produced or that any undeveloped reserves will be developed. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional, economically recoverable oil and gas reserves. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we can find, develop or acquire replacement reserves. One offset to the obvious benefits afforded by higher product prices especially for small to mid-cap companies in this industry, is that quality domestic oil and gas reserves are becoming harder to find. Reserves to be produced from undiscovered reservoirs appear to be smaller, and the risks to find these reserves are greater. Reports from the Energy Information Administration indicate that on-shore domestic finding costs are on the rise, and that the average reserves added per well are declining. Drilling and operating activities are subject to many risks, including availability of workover and drilling rigs, well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pollution, releases of toxic gases and other environmental hazards and risks. Any of these operating hazards could result in substantial losses to us. In addition, we incur the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered and there is no assurance that we will recover all or any portion of its investment in wells drilled or re-entered. 9 The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions could all affect our ability to produce and market our oil and gas. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 