Item 1A. Risk FactorsUnfavorable economic and market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. The global economy remains unstable. For example, we are currently seeing a slowdown in China, recessionary conditions in Brazil and a slowdown in certain regions that are dependent upon the mining of certain commodities. We expect economic conditions will continue to be challenging and uneven for the foreseeable future. Adverse changes in economic conditions could result in declines in revenue, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by the economic challenges faced by our customers and suppliers.A portion of MSA's sales are made to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical market. These sales expose MSA to the risks of doing business in that global market. We estimate that roughly 35% of our global business is sold into energy market vertical. Approximately 10% - 15% of consolidated revenue, primarily in industrial head protection and portable gas detection, is more exposed to a pull back in employment trends across the energy market. Another 5% - 10% of consolidated revenue, primarily in the FGFD product line is more exposed to a pull back in capital equipment spending within the energy market. It is possible that the volatility in upstream, midstream and downstream markets, driven partly by geopolitical factors, could negatively impact our business and our results of operations and financial condition.A reduction in the spending patterns of government agencies or delays in obtaining government approval for our products could materially and adversely affect our net sales, earnings and cash flow.The demand for our products sold to the fire service market, the homeland security market and other government agencies is, in large part, driven by available government funding. Government budgets are set annually and we cannot assure that government funding will be sustained at the same level in the future. A significant reduction in available government funding could materially and adversely affect our net sales, earnings and cash flow.Our ability to market and sell our products is subject to existing government regulations and standards. Changes in such regulations and standards or our failure to comply with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.Most of our products are required to meet performance and test standards designed to protect the safety of people and infrastructures around the world. Our inability to comply with these standards may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in regulations could reduce the demand for our products or require us to re-engineer our products, thereby creating opportunities for our competitors. Regulatory approvals for our products may be delayed or denied for a variety of reasons that are outside of our control. Additionally, market anticipation of significant new standards can cause customers to accelerate or delay buying decisions.We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and any violation of these laws could adversely affect our results of operations.We are subject to extensive regulation from U.S. federal, state, and local governments, as well as the governments of the countries in which we conduct business. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in severe civil or criminal penalties, sanctions or significant changes to our operations. These actions could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.8Table of ContentsWe are subject to various environmental laws and any violation of these laws could adversely affect our results of operations.Included in the extensive laws, regulations and ordinances, to which we are subject, are those relating to the protection of the environment. Examples include those governing discharges to air and water, handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes and the maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws impose penalties for noncompliance and liability for response costs and certain damages resulting from past and current spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs as a result of noncompliance with or liability for cleanup pursuant to these environmental laws. Such laws continue to change, and we may be subject to more stringent environmental laws in the future. If more stringent environmental laws are enacted, these future laws could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. The competitive pressures faced by us could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.The safety products market is highly competitive, with participants ranging in size from small companies focusing on single types of safety products, to large multinational corporations that manufacture and supply many types of safety products. Our main competitors vary by region and product. We believe that participants in this industry compete primarily on the basis of product characteristics (such as functional performance, agency approvals, design and style), price, brand name trust and recognition and customer service. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and our business could be adversely affected by competitors’ new product innovations, technological advances made to competing products and pricing changes made by us in response to competition from existing or new competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the competitive pressures faced by us could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we fail to introduce successful new products or extend our existing product lines, we may lose our market position and our financial performance may be materially and adversely affected.In the safety products market, there are frequent introductions of new products and product line extensions. If we are unable to identify emerging consumer and technological trends, maintain and improve the competitiveness of our products and introduce new products, we may lose our market position, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to invest significant resources in research and development and market research. However, continued product development and marketing efforts are subject to the risks inherent in the development process. These risks include delays, the failure of new products and product line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and the risk of failed product introductions.Product liability claims and our inability to collect related insurance receivables could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.MSA and its subsidiaries face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims arising from the alleged failure of our products to prevent the types of personal injury or death against which they are designed to protect. Although we have not frequently experienced material uninsured losses due to product liability claims, it is possible that we could experience material losses in the future. In the event any of our products prove to be defective, we could be required to recall or redesign such products. In addition, we may voluntarily recall or redesign certain products that could potentially be harmful to end users. Any claim or product recall that results in significant expense or adverse publicity against us, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, including any successful claim brought against us in excess or outside of available insurance coverage.In the normal course of business, we make payments to settle product liability claims and for related legal fees and we record receivables for the amounts covered by insurance. Our insurance receivables totaled $229.5 million at December 31, 2015. Various factors could affect the timing and amount of recovery of insurance receivables, including: the outcome of negotiations with insurers, legal proceedings with respect to product liability insurance coverage and the extent to which insurers may become insolvent in the future. Amounts due from insurance carriers are subject to insolvency risk. Failure to recover amounts due from our insurance carriers could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Mine Safety Appliances Company, LLC, ("MSA LLC") is currently involved in insurance coverage litigation with a number of insurance carriers. When those matters are fully resolved, MSA LLC will be solely responsible for expenses related to cumulative trauma product liability claims. Please refer to Note 19 in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further details.9Table of ContentsDamage to the reputation of MSA or to one or more of our product brands could adversely affect our business.Developing and maintaining our reputation, as well as the reputation of our brands, is a critical factor in our relationship with customers, distributors and others. Our inability to address adverse publicity or other issues, including concerns about product safety or quality, real or perceived, could negatively impact our business which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.A failure of our information systems could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.The proper functioning and security of our information systems is critical to the operation of our business. Our information systems may be vulnerable to damage or disruption from natural or man-made disasters, computer viruses, power losses or other system or network failures. In addition, hackers and cybercriminals could attempt to gain unauthorized access to our information systems with the intent of harming our company or obtaining sensitive information such as intellectual property, trade secrets, financial and business development information, and customer and vendor related information. If our information systems or security fail, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.Like many companies, from time to time, we have experienced attacks on our computer systems by unauthorized outside parties; however, we do not believe that such attacks have resulted in any material damage to us or our customers. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, prevent or detect these attacks. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. Any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident. We routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we expect to devote increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems. We cannot assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions.Our plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to compete.MSA has transitioned parts of its European business segment to a principal operating company ("European reorganization"). A Principal Operating Company is an entity that conducts manufacturing and purchasing activities in accordance with the laws and regulations of Switzerland. This principal operating company model integrates our historically individually managed entities, into one that is a centrally managed organization. We have begun to and plan to continue to leverage the benefits of scale created from this approach and are in the process of implementing a more efficient and cost-effective enterprise resource planning system in additional locations across the European and International Segments. MSA runs the risk that these and similar initiatives may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated. In addition, these various initiatives require MSA to implement a significant amount of organizational change which could divert management’s attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, could cause disruptions in our day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on MSA's financial results. It is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future.Our plans to improve future profitability through restructuring programs may not be successful and may lead to unintended consequences. MSA incurred a significant amount of restructuring expense during 2015, primarily related to headcount reduction. These efforts should contribute to profitability in future periods. Our success will depend on our ability to maintain increased productivity without backfilling certain positions. We have significant international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.We have business operations in over 40 foreign countries. In 2015, approximately half of our net sales were made by operations located outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to various political, economic and other risks and uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business. These risks include the following:•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•changes in trade policy or tariff regulations;•changes in tax laws and regulations;•changes to the company's legal structure could have unintended tax consequences;10Table of Contents•inability to generate sufficient profit in certain foreign jurisdictions could lead to additional valuation allowances on deferred tax assets;•intellectual property protection difficulties;•difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with U.S. laws;•trade protection measures and price controls;•trade sanctions and embargoes;•nationalization and expropriation;•increased international instability or potential instability of foreign governments;•effectiveness of worldwide compliance with MSA's anti-bribery policy, local laws and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act•the ability to effectively negotiate with labor unions in foreign countries;•the need to take extra security precautions for our international operations; and•costs and difficulties in managing culturally and geographically diverse international operations.Any one or more of these risks could have a negative impact on the success of our international operations and, thereby, materially and adversely affect our business as a whole.Our future results are subject to the risk that purchased components and materials are unavailable or available at excessive cost due to material shortages, excessive demand, currency fluctuation and other factors.We depend on various components and materials to manufacture our products. Although we have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining components and materials, it is possible that any of our supplier relationships could be terminated or otherwise disrupted. Any sustained interruption in our receipt of adequate supplies could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage price fluctuations due to market demand, currency risks or material shortages, or that future price fluctuations will not have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Because we derive a significant portion of our sales from the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, future currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.For the year ended December 31, 2015, the operations in our European and International segments accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales. The results of our foreign operations are generally reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years, and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position, and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our exchange rate risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth would be negatively impacted.Our success depends in large part on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering and sales and marketing personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. Our success also depends on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. If we are unable to attract, effectively integrate and retain management, engineering or sales and marketing personnel, then the execution of our growth strategy and our ability to react to changing market requirements may be impeded, and our business could suffer as a result. Competition for personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance.11Table of ContentsOur inability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate current and future acquisitions or to realize anticipated cost savings and other benefits could adversely affect our business.One of our operating strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions. On October 21, 2015, MSA completed the acquisition of Latchways - a leading global provider of innovative fall protection systems and solutions based in the United Kingdom. Please refer to Note 13 in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further details. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and successfully consummate such acquisitions. Acquisitions involve a number of risks including:•failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we expect;•diversion of our management’s attention from operational matters;•our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses;•risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities;•potential disruption of our existing business; and•customer dissatisfaction or performance problems at the acquired businesses.If we are unable to integrate or successfully manage businesses that we have recently acquired including Latchways, or may acquire in the future, we may not realize anticipated cost savings, improved manufacturing efficiencies and increased revenue, which may result in materially adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of our acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame, and such benefits may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the acquired companies and increases in other expenses.Our continued success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business could be materially and adversely affected.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We have been issued patents and have registered trademarks with respect to many of our products, but our competitors could independently develop similar or superior products or technologies, duplicate any of our designs, trademarks, processes or other intellectual property or design around any processes or designs on which we have or may obtain patents or trademark protection. In addition, it is possible that third parties may have, or will acquire, licenses for patents or trademarks that we may use or desire to use, so that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, such patents or trademarks of third parties. Such licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not prevail in contesting the validity of third party rights.We also protect trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information against unauthorized use by others or disclosure by persons who have access to them, such as our employees, through contractual arrangements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.The continued success of our next generation G1 SCBA is dependent on our ability to manufacture the product in line with customer demand while controlling product cost.The G1 SCBA has significant market potential; however, our success will depend upon our ability to maintain increased production and execute key value based engineering efforts aimed at improving the cost profile of the product.We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments.At December 31, 2015, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $586.2 million. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets and divestitures may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareholders’ equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to debt and equity markets.12Table of ContentsRisks related to our defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension contributions in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for our pension plans may become more significant. However, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. For further information regarding our pension plans, refer to "Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits" in Note 14 of Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.If we fail to meet our debt service requirements or the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements or if interest rates increase, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.We have a substantial amount of debt upon which we are required to make scheduled interest and principal payments and we may incur additional debt in the future. A significant portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates that may increase in the future. Our debt agreements require us to comply with certain restrictive covenants. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or if interest rates increase, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, a failure to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements could result in a default, which if not waived by our lenders, could substantially increase borrowing costs and require accelerated repayment of our debt. Please refer to Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K for commentary on our compliance with the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements as of December 31, 2015 as well as our drawing upon a Great British Pound denominated shelf facility in January 2016.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.13Table of Contents