ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. We urge you to consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have no recent history of production. We have no recent history of producing silver or other metals. The development of our Montanore Project would require the construction and operation of mines, processing plants, and related infrastructure. As a result, we are subject to all of the risks associated with establishing a new mining operation and business enterprise. There can be no assurance that we will successfully establish mining operations or profitability. We have a history of losses and we expect losses to continue for at least the next three years. As an exploration and development company that has no production history, we have incurred losses since our inception and we expect to continue to incur additional losses for at least the next three years. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $15.8 million. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. 8 We have no proven or probable reserves. We have no proven or probable reserves on any of our properties. We are currently focused on our Montanore Project. Substantial additional work, including delineation drilling, will be required in order to determine if any proven or probable reserves exist on our Montanore Project. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors beyond our control, including particular attributes of the deposit such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as metal prices. In the event commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the Montanore Project might not be brought into commercial production. The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative in nature, involves substantial expenditures and is frequently non-productive. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature and is frequently non-productive. Substantial expenditures are required to: · establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques; · determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore; and · design and construct mining and processing facilities. If we discover ore, it usually takes several years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change. As a result of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that we will successfully acquire additional mineral rights, or that our exploration programs will result in new proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations at any of our properties. We may not be able to obtain permits required for development of the Montanore Project. In the ordinary course of business, mining companies are required to seek governmental permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations. We will be required to reactivate numerous permits for our Montanore Project. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings. Obtaining required permits for the Montanore Project may be more difficult due to its location within the Cabinet Wilderness Area, its proximity to core habitat of certain protected species, including the grizzly bear, and the efforts of a third party to permit a mining operation near the Montanore Project. In addition, mining projects require the establishment and presentation of environmental baseline conditions for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil and socioeconomic parameters. An Environmental Impact Statement would be required before we could commence mine development or mining activities. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis on which direct and indirect impacts of our project are evaluated and based on which potential mitigation measures would be proposed. If the Montanore Project were found to significantly adversely impact the baseline conditions, we could incur significant additional costs to correct the adverse impact and delays in the Montanore Project could result. In addition, permits would also be required for storm-water discharge; air quality; wetland disturbance; dam safety (for water storage and/or tailing storage); septic and sewage; water rights 9 appropriation; and possibly others. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act consultation process. The duration and success of our efforts to re-permit are contingent upon many variables not within our control. There can be no assurance that all necessary permits will be obtained and, if obtained, that the costs involved will not exceed those that had been previously estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that we would not proceed with the further exploration development or operation of a mine or mines at the Montanore Project. We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to develop the Montanore Project. If our exploration efforts at Montanore are successful, our current estimates indicate that we would be required to raise approximately $415 million in external financing to develop and construct the Montanore Project. Sources of external financing could include bank borrowings and debt and equity offerings. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and we may not be able to secure the financing necessary to begin or sustain production at the Montanore Project. The failure to obtain financing would have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success is subject to risks inherent in the mining industry. Our future mining operations, if any, would be subject to all of the hazards and risks normally incident to developing and operating mining properties. These risks include insufficient ore reserves, fluctuations in metal prices and increases in production costs that may make mining of reserves uneconomic; significant environmental and other regulatory restrictions; labor disputes; geological problems; failure of underground stopes and/or surface dams; force majeure events; and the risk of injury to persons, property or the environment. Our future profitability will be affected by changes in the prices of metals. If we establish reserves, complete a favorable feasibility study for the Montanore Project, and complete development of a mine, our profitability and long-term viability would depend, in large part, on the market price of silver and copper. The market prices for these metals are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: · global or regional consumption patterns; · supply of, and demand for, silver and copper; · speculative activities; · expectations for inflation; and · political and economic conditions. The aggregate effect of these factors on metals prices is impossible for us to predict. Decreases in metals prices have delayed, and could in the future adversely affect our ability to finance, the exploration and development of our properties, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that metals prices will not decline. During the five-year period ended December 31, 2006, the high and low settlement prices for silver and copper were $14.94 and $8.93 per ounce and $4.08 and $2.13 per pound, respectively. 10 Changes in mining or common metal laws could increase costs and impair our ability to develop our properties. From time to time the U.S. Congress may consider revisions in its mining and environmental laws. It remains unclear to what extent new legislation may affect existing mining claims or operations. The effect of any such revisions on our operations cannot be determined conclusively until such revision is enacted; however, such legislation could materially increase costs on properties located on federal lands, and such revision could also impair our ability to develop the Montanore Project and other mineral projects. We are subject to environmental risks. Mining is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. Insurance against environmental risk (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to us (or to other companies in the minerals industry) at a reasonable price. To the extent that we become subject to environmental liabilities, the satisfaction of those liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. Laws and regulations intended to ensure the protection of the environment are constantly changing, and are generally becoming more restrictive. The title to some of our properties may be uncertain or defective. Although the Montanore deposit is held by patented mining claims, a significant portion of our holdings consist of unpatented lode and mill site claims. Certain of our United States mineral rights consist of “unpatented” mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872. Unpatented mining claims are unique U.S. property interests, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations that supplement the General Mining Law. Also, unpatented mining claims and related rights, including rights to use the surface, are subject to possible challenges by third parties or contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state statutory and decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively control the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. We have not filed a patent application for any of the unpatented claims that are located on federal public lands in the United States and, under possible future legislation to change the General Mining Law, patents may be difficult to obtain. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered a number of proposed amendments to the General Mining Law. Although no such legislation has been adopted to date, there can be no assurance that such legislation will not be adopted in the future. If ever adopted, such legislation could, among other things, impose royalties on silver and copper production from unpatented mining claims located on federal lands or impose fees on production from patented mining claims. Further, it could have an adverse impact on earnings from our operation, could reduce estimates of our reserves and could curtail our future exploration and development activity on federal lands or patented claims. While we have no reason to believe that title to any of our properties is in doubt, title to mining properties is subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. 11 The market price of our common stock could experience volatility and could decline significantly. Our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX). Securities of small-cap companies have experienced substantial volatility in the past, often based on factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of the companies involved. These factors include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries. Our share price is also likely to be significantly affected by short-term changes in silver and copper prices or in our financial condition or results of operations as reflected in our quarterly earnings reports. Other factors unrelated to our performance that could have an effect on the price of our common stock include the following: · the extent of analytical coverage available to investors concerning our business is limited because investment banks with research capabilities do not follow our securities; · the trading volume and general market interest in our securities could affect an investor’s ability to trade significant numbers of shares of our common stock; · the relatively small size of the public float will limit the ability of some institutions to invest in our securities; and · a substantial decline in our stock price that persists for a significant period of time could cause our securities to be delisted from the AMEX and the TSX, further reducing market liquidity. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of our common stock at any given point in time might not accurately reflect our long-term value. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and damages and divert management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 