ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. We urge you to consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have no recent history of production. We have no recent history of producing silver or other metals. The development of our Montanore Project would require the construction and operation of mines, processing plants, and related infrastructure. As a result, we would be subject to all of the risks associated with establishing a new mining operation and business enterprise. We may never successfully establish mining operations, and any operations may not achieve profitability. We have a history of losses and we expect losses to continue for at least the next three years. As an exploration company that has no production history, we have incurred losses since our inception and we expect to continue to incur additional losses for at least the next three years. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $23.5 million. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have no proven or probable reserves. We have no proven or probable reserves on any of our properties. We are currently focused on our Montanore Project. Substantial additional work, including delineation drilling, will be required in order to determine if any proven or probable reserves exist on our Montanore Project. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is dependent on a number of factors beyond our control, 10 including particular attributes of the deposit such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as metal prices. Estimates of reserves, mineralized material, resources, and capital and production costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. Material changes in ore reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of any project. Even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the Montanore Project may not be brought into commercial production. The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative in nature, involves substantial expenditures and is frequently non-productive. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature and is frequently non-productive. Substantial expenditures are required to: •establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques; •determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore; and •design mining and processing facilities. If we discover ore at the Montanore Project, we expect that it would be several additional years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production could change. As a result of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that our exploration programs will result in new proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations at the Montanore Project. We may not be able to obtain permits required for development of the Montanore Project. In the ordinary course of business, mining companies are required to seek governmental permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations. We will be required to obtain numerous permits for our Montanore Project. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings. Obtaining required permits for the Montanore Project may be more difficult due to its location within the Cabinet Wilderness Area, its proximity to core habitat of certain protected species, including the grizzly bear, bull trout and lynx, and the efforts of a third party to permit another mining operation near the Montanore Project. Private groups dedicated to protection of the environment have been active in opposing permitting of other projects in and near the Cabinet Wilderness Area. In addition, mining projects require the evaluation of environmental impacts for air, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural, historical, geological, geotechnical, geochemical, soil and socioeconomic conditions. An Environmental Impact Statement would be required before we could commence mine development or mining activities. Baseline environmental conditions are the basis on which direct and indirect impacts of the Project are evaluated and based on which potential mitigation measures would be proposed. If the Montanore Project were found to significantly adversely impact the baseline conditions, we could incur significant additional costs to avoid or mitigate the adverse impact, and delays in the Montanore Project could result. Permits would also be required for, among other things, storm-water discharge; air quality; wetland disturbance; dam safety (for water storage and/or tailing storage); septic and sewage and water rights appropriation. In addition, compliance must be demonstrated with the Endangered Species Act and the National Historical Preservation Act. 11 The duration and success of our efforts to re-permit are contingent upon many variables not within our control. There can be no assurance that we will obtain all necessary permits will be obtained and, if obtained, that the permitting costs involved will not exceed those that had been previously estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that we would not proceed with the further exploration, development or operation of a mine or mines at the Montanore Project. Even if our exploration efforts at Montanore are successful, we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to develop the Montanore Project. If our exploration efforts at Montanore are successful, our current estimates indicate that we would be required to raise approximately $415 million in external financing to develop and construct the Montanore Project. Sources of external financing could include bank borrowings and debt and equity offerings. The failure to obtain financing would have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will commence production at Montanore or generate sufficient revenues to meet our obligations as they become due or obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not be able to secure the financing necessary to begin or sustain production at the Montanore Project. In addition, should we incur significant losses in future periods, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts significantly different than those included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The mining industry is intensely competitive. The mining industry is intensely competitive. We may be at a competitive disadvantage because we must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than we do. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. We may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in our efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower and exploration equipment. Our future success is subject to risks inherent in the mining industry. Our future mining operations, if any, would be subject to all of the hazards and risks normally incident to developing and operating mining properties. These risks include insufficient ore reserves, fluctuations in metal prices and increases in production costs that may make mining of reserves uneconomic; significant environmental and other regulatory restrictions; labor disputes; geological problems; failure of underground stopes and/or surface dams; force majeure events; and the risk of injury to persons, property or the environment. Our future profitability will be affected by changes in the prices of metals. If we establish reserves, complete a favorable feasibility study for the Montanore Project, and complete development of a mine, our profitability and long-term viability will depend, in large part, on the market price of silver and copper. The market prices for these metals are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: •global or regional consumption patterns; •supply of, and demand for, silver and copper; •speculative activities; 12 •expectations for inflation; and •political and economic conditions. The aggregate effect of these factors on metals prices is impossible for us to predict. Decreases in metals prices have delayed, and could in the future adversely affect our ability to finance, the exploration and development of our properties, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that metals prices will not decline. During the five-year period ended December 31, 2007, the high and low settlement prices for silver and copper were $15.82 and $4.37 per ounce and $4.08 and $0.71 per pound, respectively. We have ongoing reclamation obligations on the Montanore Project properties. Although we have posted bonds with the State of Montana to cover expected future mine reclamation costs, there is no guarantee that the amount of these bonds will satisfy the environmental regulations and requirements. Should government regulators determine that additional reclamation work is required, we may be required to fund this work, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are subject to significant governmental regulations. Our operations and exploration and development activities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including: •environmental protection; •management and use of toxic substances and explosives; •management of natural resources; •exploration and development of mines, production and post-closure reclamation; •taxation; •labor standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety; and •historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions, any of which could result in us incurring significant expenditures. We may also be required to compensate private parties suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or a more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of any future operations and delays in the exploration of our properties. Changes in mining or environmental laws could increase costs and impair our ability to develop our properties. From time to time the U.S. Congress may consider revisions in its mining and environmental laws. It remains unclear to what extent new legislation may affect existing mining claims or operations. The effect of any such revisions on our operations cannot be determined conclusively until such revision is enacted; however, such legislation could materially increase costs on properties located on federal 13 lands, such as ours, and such revision could also impair our ability to develop the Montanore Project and other mineral projects. We are subject to environmental risks. Mineral exploration and mining is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. Insurance against environmental risk (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to us (or to other companies in the minerals industry) at a reasonable price. To the extent that we become subject to environmental liabilities, the satisfaction of those liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. Laws and regulations intended to ensure the protection of the environment are constantly changing, and are generally becoming more restrictive. The title to some of our properties may be uncertain or defective. Although the Montanore deposit is held by patented mining claims, a significant portion of our holdings consist of unpatented lode and millsite claims. Certain of our United States mineral rights consist of "unpatented" mining and millsite claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872. Unpatented mining and millsite claims are unique U.S. property interests, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining and millsite claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations that supplement the General Mining Law. Also, unpatented mining and millsite claims and related rights, including rights to use the surface, are subject to possible challenges by third parties or contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining or millsite claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state statutory and decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively control the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining and millsite claims. We have not filed a patent application for any of the unpatented and millsite claims that are located on federal public lands in the United States and, under possible future legislation to change the General Mining Law, patents may be difficult to obtain. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered a number of proposed amendments to the General Mining Law, as well as legislation that would make comprehensive changes to the law. Although no such legislation has been adopted to date, there can be no assurance that such legislation will not be adopted in the future. If ever adopted, such legislation could, among other things, impose royalties on silver and copper production from unpatented mining and millsite claims located on federal lands or impose fees on production from patented mining and millsite claims. Further, it could have an adverse impact on earnings from our operations, could reduce estimates of any reserves we may establish and could curtail our future exploration and development activity on federal lands or patented claims. While we have no reason to believe that title to any of our properties is in doubt, title to mining properties is subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. 14 The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility and could decline significantly. Our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX). Securities of small-cap companies such as ours have experienced substantial volatility in the past, often based on factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of the companies involved. These factors include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries. Our share price is also likely to be significantly affected by short-term changes in silver and copper prices or in our financial condition or results of operations as reflected in our quarterly earnings reports. Other factors unrelated to our performance that could have an effect on the price of our common stock include the following: •the extent of analytical coverage available to investors concerning our business is limited because investment banks with research capabilities do not follow our securities; •the trading volume and general market interest in our securities could affect an investor's ability to trade significant numbers of shares of our common stock; •the relatively small size of the public float will limit the ability of some institutions to invest in our securities; and •a substantial decline in our stock price that persists for a significant period of time could cause our securities to be delisted from the AMEX and the TSX, further reducing market liquidity. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of our common stock at any given point in time might not accurately reflect our long-term value. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and damages and divert management's attention and resources. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends and any future decision as to the payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries, financial position, capital requirements, plans for expansion and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. Any return on an investment in our common stock will come from the appreciation, if any, in the value of our common stock. Our shareholders are subject to future dilution by the exercise of options and warrants, and the existence of a significant number of options and warrants can depress the price of our common stock. As of March 11, 2008, we had 22,746,220 shares outstanding. As of that date, there were options outstanding to purchase up to 1,616,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.85 to $5.70 per share and warrants outstanding to purchase 5,965,333 shares at an exercise prices ranging from $4.00 to $5.75 per share. We have customarily repriced stock options when the exercise price falls $1.00 or more below the prevailing market price of our common stock. 329,000 additional shares of common stock are available for issuance under our stock option plans. If currently outstanding options or warrants to purchase our common stock are exercised, the investments of our shareholders would be further diluted. In addition, the potential for exercise of a significant number of options and warrants can have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. A new 2008 Stock Option Plan was approved by the Board of Directors on 11/20/07 providing for the issuance of options to purchase an additional 3,000,000 shares of common stock. The plan and grants of options to purchase an 15 additional 3,000,000 shares of common stock becomes effective only if approved by our shareholders. Approval of this plan will increase the potential dilutive effect of our stock options. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 