Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)We may be vulnerable to acts of terrorism or cyber attacks.Our generation plants, fuel storage facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities may be targets of terrorist activities, including cybersecurity attacks, which could result in the disruption of our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. We could be subject to computer viruses, terrorism, theft and sabotage, which may also disrupt our operations and/or adversely impact our results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Our technology systems may be vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive, confidential and other data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The results from any acquisitions of assets or businesses made by us, or strategic investments that we may make, may not achieve the results that we expect or seek and may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.Acquisitions are subject to uncertainties. If we are unable to successfully manage future acquisitions or strategic investments it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our actual results may also differ from our expectations due to factors such as the ability to obtain timely regulatory or governmental approvals, integration and operational issues and the ability to retain management and other key personnel.We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic objectives of growing load at our utilities if current or potential industrial or municipal customers are unable to successfully implement expansion plans, including the inability to obtain necessary governmental permits.As part of our long-term strategy, we pursue new wholesale and retail loads in and around our service territory. Currently, there are several companies in northeastern Minnesota that are in the process of developing natural resource-based projects that represent long-term growth potential and load diversity for Minnesota Power. These projects may include construction of new facilities and restarts of old facilities, both of which require permitting and/or approvals to be obtained before the projects can be successfully implemented.If a project does not obtain any necessary governmental (including environmental) permits and approvals, our long‑term strategy and thus our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, even if the necessary permits and approvals are obtained, our long-term strategy could be adversely impacted if these customers are unable to successfully implement expansion plans.Real estate market conditions where our Florida real estate investment is located may affect our strategy to sell our Florida real estate.ALLETE intends to sell its Florida land assets when opportunities arise. However, adverse market conditions could impact our future operations, which could result in little to no sales while still incurring operating expenses such as community development district assessments and property taxes, as well as continued annual net operating losses at ALLETE Properties. Furthermore, weak market conditions could put the properties at risk for impairment which could adversely impact our results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.