ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements, including those contained in this Form 10-K, should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under the heading: "Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" located on page 3 of this Form 10-K and the factors described below. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not presently aware of, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if the concerns set forth below are realized. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED IF OUR LARGE POWER CUSTOMERS EXPERIENCE AN ECONOMIC DOWN CYCLE OR FAIL TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY IN THE GLOBAL ECONOMY. Our 12 Large Power Customers account for approximately 32% of our 2005 consolidated operating revenue (one of these customers alone accounts for more than 11%). These customers are involved in cyclical industries that by nature are adversely impacted by economic downturns and are subject to strong competition in the global marketplace. An economic downturn or failure to compete effectively in the global economy could have a material adverse effect on their operations and, consequently, could negatively impact our results of operations and the communities that we serve. OUR ENERGY BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO INCREASED COMPETITION. The independent power industry includes numerous strong and capable competitors, many of which have extensive experience in the operation, acquisition and development of power generation facilities. Our competition is based primarily on price and reputation for quality, safety and reliability. The electric utility and natural gas industries are also experiencing increased competitive pressures as a result of consumer demands, technological advances, deregulation and other factors. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS THAT MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are subject to prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the United States Congress, state legislatures, the FERC, the MPUC, the FPSC, the PSCW, various local and county regulators, and city administrators. These governmental regulations relate to allowed rates of return, financings, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, real estate development, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power and capital investments, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to transmission costs). These governmental regulations significantly influence our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from our customers. We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. OUR REGULATED UTILITY AND NONREGULATED ENERGY OPERATIONS POSE CERTAIN ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air quality, water quality, waste management, reclamation and other environmental considerations. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs, as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations, particularly with regard to laws relating to power plant emissions. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot predict the financial or operational outcome of any related litigation that may arise. There are no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations, which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material effect on our results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. (See Note 10.) Page 23 ALLETE 2005 Form 10-K RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) THE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF OUR GENERATING FACILITIES INVOLVE RISKS THAT COULD SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE THE COST OF DOING BUSINESS. The operation of generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of facilities, the dependence on a specific fuel source, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural events, as well as the risk of performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, the occurrence of any of which could result in lost revenue, increased expenses or both. A significant portion of Minnesota Power's facilities was constructed many years ago. In particular, older generating equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to keep operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. (See Item I - Environmental Matters). Minnesota Power could be subject to costs associated with any unexpected failure to produce power, including failure caused by breakdown or forced outage, as well as repairing damage to facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events. Further, our ability to successfully and timely complete capital improvements to existing facilities or other capital projects is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and/or the write-off of our investment in the project or improvement. WE MUST HAVE ADEQUATE AND RELIABLE TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES TO DELIVER ELECTRICITY TO OUR CUSTOMERS. Minnesota Power depends on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by other utilities, as well as its own such facilities, to deliver the electricity it produces and sells to its customers, and to other energy suppliers. If transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity may be hindered, we may have to forgo sales or we may have to buy more expensive wholesale electricity that is available in the capacity-constrained area. The cost to provide service to these customers may exceed the cost to serve other customers, resulting in lower gross margins. In addition, any infrastructure failure that interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity to our customers could negatively impact the satisfaction of our customers with our service. THE PRICE OF ONE OF OUR MAJOR PRODUCTS, ELECTRICITY, AND/OR ONE OF OUR MAJOR EXPENSES, FUEL, MAY BE VOLATILE. Volatility in market prices for electricity and fuel may result from: - severe or unexpected weather conditions; - seasonality; - changes in electricity usage; - transmission or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; - availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; - changes in supply and demand for energy commodities; - changes in power production capacity; - outages at Minnesota Power's generating facilities or those of our competitors; - changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, or crude oil and refined products; - natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events; and - federal, state, local and foreign energy, environmental, or other regulation and legislation. Since fluctuations in fuel expense related to our regulated utility operations are passed on to customers through our fuel clause, risk of volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity mainly impacts our nonregulated operations at this time. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON GOOD LABOR RELATIONS. We believe our relations to be good with our approximately 1,500 employees. Approximately 700 of these employees are members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 31 or Local 1593. Failure to successfully renegotiate labor agreements could adversely affect the services we provide and our results of operations. The labor agreements with Local 31 expired on January 31, 2006, and a tentative agreement has been reached. The members of IBEW Local 31 are expected to vote on the tentative agreement by the end of February 2006. The labor agreement with Local 1593 at BNI Coal expires on March 31, 2008. A DOWNTURN IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REAL ESTATE BUSINESS. The ability of our real estate business to generate revenue is directly related to the Florida real estate market, the national and local economy in general, and changes in interest rates. While real estate market conditions have remained healthy in our regions of development, continued demand for land is dependent on long-term prospects for strong, in-migration population expansion. ALLETE 2005 Form 10-K Page 24 RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) WE ARE EXPOSED TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT. Our real estate development activities entail risks that include construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs. In addition, our real estate development activities require significant capital expenditures. We obtain funds for our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations and financings. We cannot be sure that the funds available from these sources will be sufficient to fund our required or desired capital expenditures for development. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds, we may have to defer or otherwise limit our development activities. If we are unsuccessful in our selling efforts, we may not be able to recover these capital expenditures. OUR REAL ESTATE BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION, WHICH MAKES IT DIFFICULT AND EXPENSIVE FOR US TO CONDUCT OUR OPERATIONS. Development of real property in Florida entails an extensive approval process involving overlapping regulatory jurisdictions. Real estate projects must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (Growth Management Act). In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact (DRI) application. The Growth Management Act requires counties and cities to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions. After a local government adopts its comprehensive plan, all development orders and development permits must be consistent with the plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use, capital improvements, traffic circulation, sanitation, sewage, potable water, drainage and solid waste disposal. The local governments' comprehensive plans must also establish "levels of service" with respect to certain specified public facilities and services to residents. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if facilities and services are not operating at established levels of service, or if the projects for which permits are requested will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government's comprehensive plan. If the proposed development would reduce the established level of services below the level set by the plan, the development order will require that, at the outset of the project, the developer either sufficiently improve the services to meet the required level or provide financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses. The Growth Management Act, in some instances, can significantly affect the ability of developers to obtain local government approval in Florida. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth. As a result, substandard facilities and services can delay or prevent the issuance of permits. Consequently, the Growth Management Act could adversely affect our ability to develop our future real estate projects. The DRI review process includes an evaluation of a project's impact on the environment, infrastructure and government services, and requires the involvement of numerous state and local environmental, zoning and community development agencies. Local government approval of any DRI is subject to appeal to the Governor and Cabinet by the Florida Department of Community Affairs, and adverse decisions by the Governor or Cabinet are subject to judicial appeal. The DRI approval process is usually lengthy and costly, and conditions, standards or requirements may be imposed on a developer with respect to a particular project, which may materially increase the cost of the project. ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR REAL ESTATE BUSINESS. A substantial portion of our development properties in Florida is subject to federal, state, and local regulations and restrictions that may impose significant costs or limitations on our ability to develop our properties. Much of our property is vacant land and some is located in areas where development may affect the natural habitats of various protected wildlife species or in sensitive environmental areas such as wetlands. THE OCCURRENCE OF NATURAL DISASTERS IN FLORIDA COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The occurrence of natural disasters in Florida, such as hurricanes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain or droughts, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of natural disasters could also cause increases in property insurance rates and deductibles, which could reduce demand or selling price for our properties. Page 25 ALLETE 2005 Form 10-K RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS MAY HINDER OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE REVENUE AND EARNINGS. In pursuing a strategy of acquiring other businesses, we face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: - incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; - failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; - entering new, unfamiliar markets; - potential undiscovered liabilities at acquired businesses; - disrupting our ongoing business; - diverting our limited management resources; - failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; - impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and - increasing expenses for support services and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties. We may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that our growth will impose on our systems, procedures and structures, including our financial and reporting control systems, data processing systems and management structure. If we cannot adequately anticipate and respond to these demands, our business could be materially harmed. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating condition of the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of such business assets, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value of the acquired entity. WE CAN OFFER YOU NO ASSURANCES THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO EXECUTE AN ACQUISITION STRATEGY WITHOUT THE COSTS OF FUTURE ACQUISITIONS ESCALATING. Although there are potential acquisition candidates that fit our acquisition criteria, we are not certain that we will be able to consummate any such transactions in the future or identify those candidates that would result in the most successful combinations, or that future acquisitions will be able to be consummated at acceptable prices and terms. In addition, increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. The magnitude, timing, pricing and nature of future acquisitions will depend upon various factors, including: - the availability of suitable acquisition candidates; - competition with other industry groups or new industry consolidators for suitable acquisitions; - the negotiation of acceptable terms; - our financial capabilities; - the availability of skilled employees to manage the acquired companies; and - general economic and business conditions. OUR CREDIT RATINGS COULD BE REVISED DOWNWARD. The current credit ratings for our long-term debt are investment grade. A rating reflects only the view of a rating agency, and it is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Any rating can be revised upward or downward at any time by a rating agency if such rating agency decides that circumstances warrant such a change. If Standard & Poor's or Moody's were to downgrade our long-term ratings, particularly below investment grade, borrowing costs would increase and the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. WE RELY HEAVILY ON TECHNOLOGY TO AUTOMATE AND MAXIMIZE THE EFFICIENCIES OF OUR BUSINESSES AND TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS IN A COST-EFFECTIVE MANNER. TECHNOLOGY IS CONSTANTLY EVOLVING AND, IN ORDER FOR US TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE, WE WILL EMBRACE NEW TECHNOLOGIES AS THEY BECOME PROVEN AND ARE ECONOMICALLY VIABLE. Technology is an integral part of the operating and administrative functions of our businesses. The information systems and processes necessary to support business areas such as risk management, sales, customer service, and procurement and supply are complex and are constantly evolving. To successfully compete in our businesses, we must adapt to the evolving market by continually improving the responsiveness, functionality, and features of our services and systems to meet our customers' and other stakeholders' needs. With increasing regulatory requirements related to our operations, technology is also a key component to achieving and monitoring compliance. Increased automation through proven, economically viable technologies is among the primary tools that we use to enhance our competitive position; without these technologies, our businesses would not be able to safely operate or adequately respond to customer and other stakeholder needs. ALLETE 2005 Form 10-K Page 26 RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) TAX RESERVES AND THE RECOVERABILITY OF OUR DEFERRED TAX ASSETS MAY HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and our ongoing operations to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate and use taxes. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that we have taken. We must also assess our ability to generate capital gains to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years for federal purposes, and fifteen succeeding years for Minnesota. As of December 31, 2005, we have, where appropriate, recorded an allowance against our deferred tax assets associated with realized capital losses, and with impairment losses, which will become capital losses when realized for income tax purposes. The ultimate outcome of such matters could result in adjustments to our consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. ADEQUATE INSURANCE PROTECTION MAY NOT BE COST EFFECTIVE OR AVAILABLE TO MINIMIZE RISK. Insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenue or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. Likewise, our ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by events outside our control. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO RETAIN OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND KEY EMPLOYEES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER. The success of our business heavily depends on the leadership of our executive officers, all of whom are employees-at-will and none of whom are subject to any agreements not to compete. If we lose the service of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. We may have difficulty in retaining and attracting customers, developing new services, negotiating favorable agreements with customers and providing acceptable levels of customer service. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO REPLACE OUR MATURE WORKFORCE WITH QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OPERATE AND MAINTAIN OUR BUSINESS AND THE RESULTS OF OUR OPERATIONS WOULD BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED. The success of our business also depends on our talented workforce that operates and maintains our business and processes. If we are unable to attract and retain new personnel to replace our mature workforce, we may not be able to successfully operate and manage our business or achieve our business objectives. We may have difficulty effectively and efficiently running our business operations, maintaining existing services, meeting regulatory requirements, developing new services and providing acceptable levels of customer service. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 