Item 1A. Risk Factors The factors discussed below, as well as other information set forth in this Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not presently aware of, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if the concerns set forth below are realized. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if our Large Power Customers experience an economic down cycle or fail to compete effectively in the global economy. Our ten Large Power Customers accounted for approximately 31 percent of our 2010 consolidated operating revenue (23 percent in 2009; 36 percent in 2008). One of these customers accounted for 12.5 percent of consolidated revenue in 2010 (8.0 percent in 2009; 12.5 percent in 2008). These customers are involved in cyclical industries that by their nature are adversely impacted by economic downturns and are subject to strong competition in the global marketplace. An economic downturn or failure to compete effectively in the global economy could have a material adverse effect on their operations and, consequently, could negatively impact our results of operations if we are unable to remarket at similar prices the energy that would otherwise have been sold to such Large Power Customers. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations that may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the United States Congress, state legislatures, the FERC, the MPUC, the PSCW, the NDPSC and the EPA. These governmental regulations relate to allowed rates of return, financings, industry rate and cost structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, construction and operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities (including the ongoing maintenance and reliable operation of such facilities under established reliability standards), recovery of purchased power and capital investments, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition. The Company must also comply with permits, licenses and any other authorizations as issued by local, state and federal agencies. These governmental regulations significantly influence our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from our customers. We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain current rates of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot provide assurance that rate adjustments will be obtained or current authorized rates of return on capital will be earned. Minnesota Power and SWL&P from time to time file rate cases with, or otherwise seek cost recovery authorization from, federal and state regulatory authorities. If Minnesota Power and SWL&P do not receive an adequate amount of rate relief in rate cases, if rates are reduced, if increased rates are not approved on a timely basis or costs are otherwise unable to be recovered through rates, or if cost recovery is not achieved at the requested level, we may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operations results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Our operations could be adversely impacted by emissions of GHG that are linked to global climate change. The scientific community generally accepts that emissions of GHGs are linked to global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk. These physical risks could include, but are not limited to, increased or decreased precipitation and water levels in lakes and rivers; increased temperatures; and the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. These all have the potential to affect the Company’s business and operations. Our operations could be adversely impacted by initiatives designed to reduce the impact of GHG emissions such as CO2 from our generating facilities. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls to reduce GHGs such as CO2, a by-product of burning fossil fuels, are being discussed within Minnesota, among a group of Midwestern states that includes Minnesota, in the United States Congress and worldwide. We currently use coal as the primary fuel in 95 percent of the energy produced by our generating facilities. There is significant uncertainty regarding whether new laws or regulations will be adopted to reduce GHGs and what effect any such laws or regulations would have on us. If any new laws or regulations are implemented, they could have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly if implementation costs are not fully recoverable from customers. ALLETE 2010 Form 10-K 22 Risk Factors (Continued) The cost of environmental emission allowances could have a negative financial impact on our operations. Minnesota Power is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations which cap emissions and could require us to purchase environmental emissions allowances to be in compliance. The laws and regulations expose us to emission allowance price fluctuations which could increase our cost of operations. We are unable to predict the emission allowance pricing, regulatory recovery or ratepayer impact of these costs. Our operations pose certain environmental risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air quality, water quality, waste management, reclamation, hazardous wastes and natural resources. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs, as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations, particularly with regard to laws relating to power plant emissions. The laws could, among other things, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs and lead to other environmental considerations. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot predict the financial or operational outcome of any related litigation that may arise. There are no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material effect on our results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Violations of certain statutes, rules and regulations could expose ALLETE to third party disputes and potentially significant monetary penalties, as well as other sanctions for non-compliance. We rely on access to financing sources and capital markets. If we do not have access to sufficient capital in the amount and at the times needed, our ability to execute our business plans, make capital expenditures or pursue acquisitions that we may otherwise rely on for future growth could be impaired. We rely on access to capital markets as sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by our cash flow from operations. If we are not able to access capital on satisfactory terms, the ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. Market disruptions or a downgrade of our credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access financial markets. Such disruptions could include a severe prolonged economic downturn, the bankruptcy of non-affiliated industry leaders in the same line of business or financial services sector, deterioration in capital market conditions, or volatility in commodity prices. The operation and maintenance of our generating facilities involve risks that could significantly increase the cost of doing business. The operation of generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up operations risks, breakdown or failure of facilities, the dependence on a specific fuel source, failures in the supply availability or transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural events, as well as the risk of performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, the occurrence of any of which could result in lost revenue, increased expenses or both. A significant portion of Minnesota Power’s facilities were constructed many years ago. In particular, older generating equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to keep operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improveme nts due to changing environmental standards and technological advances. Minnesota Power could be subject to costs associated with any unexpected failure to produce power, including failure caused by breakdown or forced outage, as well as repairing damage to facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events. Further, our ability to successfully and timely complete capital improvements to existing facilities or other capital projects is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and/or the write-off of our investment in the project or improvement. ALLETE 2010 Form 10-K 23 Risk Factors (Continued) Our electrical generating operations must have adequate and reliable transmission and distribution facilities to deliver electricity to our customers. Minnesota Power depends on transmission and distribution facilities owned by other utilities, and transmission facilities primarily operated by MISO, as well as its own such facilities, to deliver the electricity we produce and sell to our customers, and to other energy suppliers. If transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity may be hindered. We may have to forego sales or we may have to buy more expensive wholesale electricity that is available in the capacity-constrained area. In addition, any infrastructure failure that interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity to our customers could negatively impact the satisfaction of our customers with our service. The price of electricity and fuel may be volatile. Volatility in market prices for electricity and fuel may result from: · severe or unexpected weather conditions; · seasonality; · changes in electricity usage; · transmission or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; · availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; · changes in supply and demand for energy; · changes in power production capacity; · outages at Minnesota Power’s generating facilities or those of our competitors; · changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products; · natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events; and · federal, state, local and foreign energy, environmental, or other regulation and legislation. Since fluctuations in fuel expense related to our regulated utility operations are passed on to customers through our fuel clause, risk of volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity mainly impacts our sales to Other Power Suppliers. We are dependent on a qualified workforce and good labor relations. The success of our business heavily depends on the leadership of our executive officers and key employees to implement our business strategy. The inability to maintain a qualified workforce including, but not limited to, executives, key employees and employees with specialized skills, may negatively affect our ability to service our existing or new customers, or successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. Personnel costs may increase due to competitive pressures or terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. We believe we have good relations with our members of the IBEW Local 31 and IBEW Local 1593, and have contracts in place through January 31, 2014, and March 31, 2011, respectively. Market performance and other changes could decrease the value of pension and postretirement health benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and increase annual expense. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations to these plans and the Company holds significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under our benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover. Additionally, our pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Our pen sion and postretirement health care costs are generally recoverable in our electric rates as allowed by our regulators. However, there is no certainty that regulators will continue to allow recovery of these rising costs in the future. Emerging technologies or cyber attacks may adversely affect our business operations. While the pace of technology development has been increasing, the basic concept upon which our business model is based of how energy is produced, sold and delivered has remained essentially unchanged. The development of new commercially viable technology in areas such as distributed generation, energy storage and energy conservation could fundamentally change demand for our current products and services. A security breach of our information systems could subject us to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including, but not limited to, customer or system operating information. Cyber attacks could affect our operations and subject us to financial harm. ALLETE 2010 Form 10-K 24 Risk Factors (Continued) The current downturn in economic conditions may adversely affect our strategy to sell our Florida real estate. ALLETE intends to sell its Florida land assets at reasonable prices over time or in bulk transactions when opportunities arise. However, if weak market conditions continue for an extended period of time, the impact on our future operations would be the continuation of little to no sales while still incurring operating expenses such as community development district assessments and property taxes. This could result in annual net operating losses similar to 2010. Additionally, because of the current real estate market conditions in Florida, we cannot predict when we will be able to sell these assets at prices we find to be reasonable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 