Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)We may be vulnerable to acts of terrorism or cyber attacks.Our generation plants, fuel storage facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities may be targets of terrorist activities, including cybersecurity attacks, which could result in the disruption of our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. We could be subject to computer viruses, terrorism, theft and sabotage, which may also disrupt our operations and/or materially adversely impact our results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Our technology systems may be vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive, confidential and other data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The inability to successfully manage and grow our Energy Infrastructure and Related Services businesses could materially adversely affect our results of operations.Our Energy Infrastructure and Related Services businesses consist of ALLETE Clean Energy, U.S. Water Services and BNI Coal. If we are unable to successfully integrate the U.S. Water Services’ business we acquired in February 2015, this could materially adversely affect our results of operations. U.S. Water Services principally relies upon recurring revenues from a diverse mix of industrial customers. If U.S. Water Services is unable to retain its existing customers and to add new industrial customers, this would prevent us from profitably operating this business and prevent us from achieving our future growth expectations.In addition, ALLETE Clean Energy’s wind facilities are parties to long-term PPAs which expire prior to the end of the estimated useful lives of the facilities. If there is not a market for this energy subsequent to the expiration of the PPAs, this could adversely affect our results of operations. The results from any acquisitions of assets or businesses made by us, or strategic investments that we may make, may not achieve the results that we expect or seek and may materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.Acquisitions are subject to uncertainties. If we are unable to successfully manage future acquisitions or strategic investments, this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our actual results may also differ from our expectations due to factors such as the ability to obtain timely regulatory or governmental approvals, integration and operational issues and the ability to retain management and other key personnel.We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic objectives of growing load at our utilities if current or potential industrial or municipal customers are unable to successfully implement expansion plans, including the inability to obtain necessary governmental permits.As part of our long-term strategy, we pursue new wholesale and retail loads in and around our service territory. Currently, there are several companies in northeastern Minnesota that are in the process of developing natural resource-based projects that represent long-term growth potential and load diversity for Minnesota Power. These projects may include construction of new facilities and restarts of old facilities, both of which require permitting and/or approvals to be obtained before the projects can be successfully implemented. If a project does not obtain any necessary governmental (including environmental) permits and approvals, our long-term strategy and thus our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, even if the necessary permits and approvals are obtained, our long-term strategy could be materially adversely impacted if these customers are unable to successfully implement expansion plans.Real estate market conditions where our Florida real estate investment is located may affect our strategy to sell our Florida real estate.We intend to sell our Florida land assets when opportunities arise. However, adverse market conditions could impact our future operations, which could result in little to no sales while still incurring operating expenses such as community development district assessments and property taxes, as well as continued annual net operating losses at ALLETE Properties. Furthermore, weak market conditions could put the properties at risk for impairment which could materially adversely impact our results of operations.ALLETE, Inc. 2014 Form 10-K 33Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.