Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)Energy Infrastructure and Related Services Risks (Continued)ALLETE has a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets. A determination that goodwill or intangible assets have been impaired could result in a significant non-cash charge to earnings. We had approximately $215 million of goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015, primarily relating to our acquisition of U.S. Water Services on February 10, 2015. If we make changes in our business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect operations of our Energy Infrastructure and Related Services businesses, we may be required to record an impairment charge. Declines in projected operating cash flows at certain of our reported units may result in goodwill impairments. An impairment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Corporate and Other RisksBNI Energy may be adversely impacted by its exposure to customer concentration and environmental laws and regulations.BNI Energy sells lignite to two electric generating cooperatives, Minnkota Power and Square Butte, and could be adversely impacted if these customers were unable or unwilling to fulfill their related contractual obligations. In addition, BNI Energy and its customers may be adversely impacted by environmental laws and regulations which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Real estate market conditions where our legacy Florida real estate investment is located may not improve.During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company reevaluated its strategy related to the real estate assets of ALLETE Properties. The revised strategy incorporates the possibility of a bulk sale of its entire portfolio, in addition to sales over time. However, continued adverse market conditions could impact the timing of land sales, which could result in little to no sales, while still incurring operating expenses such as community development district assessments and property taxes, resulting in continued annual net operating losses at ALLETE Properties. Furthermore, weak market conditions could put the properties at risk for further impairment which could adversely impact our results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.