Item 1A. Risk Factors Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements, including those contained in this Form 10-K, should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under the heading: “Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” located on page 5 of this Form 10-K and the factors described below. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not presently aware of, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if the concerns set forth below are realized. Our Regulated Utility results of operations could be negatively impacted if our Large Power Customers experience an economic down cycle or fail to compete effectively in the global economy. Our 12 Large Power Customers accounted for approximately 34 percent of our 2007 consolidated operating revenue (one of these customers accounted for 12 percent of consolidated revenue). These customers are involved in cyclical industries that by their nature are adversely impacted by economic downturns and are subject to strong competition in the global marketplace. An economic downturn or failure to compete effectively in the global economy could have a material adverse effect on their operations and, consequently, could negatively impact our results of operations. Our Regulated Utility is subject to extensive governmental regulations that may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the United States Congress, state legislatures, the FERC, the MPUC and the PSCW. These governmental regulations relate to allowed rates of return, financings, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power and capital investments, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to transmission costs). These governmental regulations significantly influence our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from our customers. We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain current rates of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statues and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or current authorized rates of return on capital will be earned. Minnesota Power and SWL&P from time to time file rate cases with federal and state regulatory authorities. In future rate cases, if Minnesota Power and SWL&P do not receive an adequate amount of rate relief, rates are reduced, increased rates are not approved on a timely basis or costs are otherwise unable to be recovered through rates, we may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operations results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Our Regulated Utility could be significantly impacted by initiatives designed to reduce the impact of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions such as carbon dioxide from our generating facilities. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed within Minnesota, among a group of midwestern states that includes Minnesota, in the United States Congress and worldwide to reduce GHGs such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil fuels. We currently use coal as the primary fuel in 94 percent of the energy produced by our generating facilities. We cannot be certain whether new laws or regulations will be adopted to reduce GHGs and what affect any such laws or regulations would have on us. If any new laws or regulations are implemented, they could have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly if implementation costs are not fully recoverable from customers. Our Regulated Utility has established a goal to reduce overall GHG emissions associated with electric generation and delivery. We plan to expand our renewable energy production, expand customer conservation and process efficiency improvements, select low GHG emitting resources to meet new generation needs, and expand the use of renewable generation resources through dispatching those units based on their environmental performance. We are participating in research and study initiatives to mitigate the potential impact carbon emissions regulation to our business. There is no assurance that our current reduction efforts will mitigate the impact of any new regulations. ALLETE 2007 Form 10-K 22 Risk Factors (Continued) The cost of environmental emission allowances could have a negative financial impact on our Regulated Utility Operations. Minnesota Power is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations which require us to purchase environmental emissions allowances which could increase our cost of operations and expose us to emission price fluctuations. We are unable to predict emission allowance pricing or regulatory recovery of these costs. We will be pursuing a current cost recovery mechanism with the MPUC and FERC. Our Regulated Utility and Nonregulated Energy Operations pose certain environmental risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air quality, water quality, waste management, reclamation and other environmental considerations. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs, as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations, particularly with regard to laws relating to power plant emissions. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot predict the financial or operational outcome of any related litigation that may arise. There are no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations, which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material effect on our results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating such costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. The operation and maintenance of our generating facilities in our Regulated Utility and Nonregulated Energy Operations involve risks that could significantly increase the cost of doing business. The operation of generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of facilities, the dependence on a specific fuel source, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural events, as well as the risk of performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, the occurrence of any of which could result in lost revenue, increased expenses or both. A significant portion of Minnesota Power’s facilities were constructed many years ago. In particular, older generating equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to keep operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvements due to changing environmental standards and technological advances. (See Item I – Environmental Matters.) Minnesota Power could be subject to costs associated with any unexpected failure to produce power, including failure caused by breakdown or forced outage, as well as repairing damage to facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events. Further, our ability to successfully and timely complete capital improvements to existing facilities or other capital projects is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and/or the write-off of our investment in the project or improvement. Our Regulated Utility and Nonregulated Energy Operations must have adequate and reliable transmission and distribution facilities to deliver electricity to its customers. Minnesota Power depends on transmission and distribution facilities owned by other utilities, and transmission facilities primarily operated by MISO, as well as its own such facilities, to deliver the electricity we produce and sell to our customers, and to other energy suppliers. If transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity may be hindered, we may have to forego sales or we may have to buy more expensive wholesale electricity that is available in the capacity-constrained area. The cost to acquire or provide service may exceed the cost to serve other customers, resulting in lower gross margins. In addition, any infrastructure failure that interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity to our customers could negatively impact the satisfaction of our customers with our service. ALLETE 2007 Form 10-K 23 Risk Factors (Continued) In our Regulated Utility and Nonregulated Energy Operations the price of electricity and fuel may be volatile. Volatility in market prices for electricity and fuel may result from: · severe or unexpected weather conditions; · seasonality; · changes in electricity usage; · transmission or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; · availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; · changes in supply and demand for energy; · changes in power production capacity; · outages at Minnesota Power’s generating facilities or those of our competitors; · changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products; · natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events; and · federal, state, local and foreign energy, environmental, or other regulation and legislation. Since fluctuations in fuel expense related to our regulated utility operations are passed on to customers through our fuel clause, risk of volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity mainly impacts our nonregulated operations at this time. We are dependent on good labor relations. We believe our relations to be good with our approximately 1,500 employees. Failure to successfully renegotiate labor agreements could adversely affect the services we provide and our results of operations. Approximately 600 of our employees are members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 31 or Local 1593. The labor agreement with Local 31 at Minnesota Power and SWL&P expires on January 31, 2009, and the labor agreement with Local 1593 at BNI Coal expires on March 31, 2008. A downturn in economic conditions could adversely affect our real estate business. The ability of our real estate business to generate revenue is directly related to the Florida real estate market, the national and local economy in general and changes in interest rates. While conditions in the Florida real estate market may fluctuate over time, continued demand for land is dependent on long-term prospects for strong, in-migration population expansion. We are exposed to risks associated with real estate development. Our real estate development activities entail risks that include construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs. In addition, the effects of the rebuilding efforts due to destructive weather, including hurricanes, could cause increased prices for construction materials and create labor shortages which could increase our development costs. Our real estate development activities require significant expenditures. We obtain funds for our expenditures through cash flow from operations and financings, including the financings of the community development districts in which our development projects are located. We cannot be certain that the funds available from these sources will be sufficient to fund our required or desired expenditures for development. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds, we may have to defer or otherwise limit our development activities. ALLETE 2007 Form 10-K 24 Risk Factors (Continued) Our real estate business is subject to extensive regulation through Florida laws regulating planning and land development which makes it difficult and expensive for us to conduct our operations. Development of real property in Florida entails an extensive approval process involving overlapping regulatory jurisdictions. Real estate projects must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (Growth Management Act). In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive DRI application. The Growth Management Act requires counties and cities to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions. After a local government adopts its comprehensive plan, all development orders and development permits must be consistent with the plan. Each plan must address such topics as future land use, capital improvements, traffic circulation, sanitation, sewage, potable water, drainage and solid waste disposal. The Growth Management Act, in some instances, can significantly affect the ability of developers to obtain local government approval in Florida. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth. As a result, substandard facilities and services can delay or prevent the issuance of permits. Consequently, the Growth Management Act could adversely affect the cost and our ability to develop future real estate projects. The DRI review process includes an evaluation of a project’s impact on the environment, infrastructure and government services, and requires the involvement of numerous state and local environmental, zoning and community development agencies. The DRI approval process is usually lengthy and costly, and conditions, standards or requirements may be imposed on a developer with respect to a particular project, which may materially increase the cost of the project. Changes in the Growth Management Act or DRI review process or the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property could adversely affect our ability to develop future real estate projects. Competition could adversely affect our real estate business. Over the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land in the southeast United States real estate market. The availability of undeveloped land for purchase that meets our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other developers and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable development density and other regulatory requirements. Our long-term ability to acquire land suitable for development at reasonable prices in locations where we feel there is a viable market is crucial in maintaining our business success. If we are not able to retain our executive officers and key employees, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and our business could suffer. The success of our business heavily depends on the leadership of our executive officers, all of whom are employees-at-will and none of whom are subject to any agreements not to compete. If we lose the service of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. We may have difficulty in retaining and attracting customers, developing new services, negotiating favorable agreements with customers and providing acceptable levels of customer service. ALLETE 2007 Form 10-K 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 