Item 1A. Risk Factors Operating Risks We may continue to incur losses in our Merchant Services business. We may incur a material impairment charge if we decide to sell our interest in Crossroads power plant or liquidate our remaining wholesale energy trading contracts in an inefficient or untimely manner. In addition, we expect to continue to incur operating losses from our remaining Merchant Services business. Our non-investment grade credit ratings have an adverse effect on our liquidity and borrowing costs. Our long-term senior unsecured debt is presently rated "Ba3" (Ratings Under Review for Possible Upgrade) by Moody's, and "B+" (Credit Watch Positive) by S&P. Our non-investment grade ratings have increased our borrowing costs. These increases in our borrowing costs are not recoverable in our utility rates. In addition, our non-investment grade ratings generally require us to prepay our commodity purchases or post collateral to obtain trade credit. As of December 31, 2007, we had posted $229.6 million of collateral (in the form of cash or letters of credit) with counterparties. Our ability to refinance debt or raise new capital could be restricted by the terms of our finance agreements and our regulatory orders. The terms of our credit facilities and regulatory orders limit the amount of additional indebtedness that we can incur. For example, our ability to incur indebtedness is restricted unless the additional indebtedness satisfies certain conditions (including use of proceeds restrictions), and prior to issuing long-term debt securities we must obtain the approval of the FERC and certain state commissions. Even if we were to repay our credit facilities, we would still be required to seek regulatory approvals to issue long-term debt. Thus, our ability to raise capital quickly (if at all) on favorable market terms could be limited. Regulatory commissions may refuse to approve some or all of the utility rate increases we may request in the future. Our regulated electricity and natural gas operations are subject to cost-of-service regulation and earnings oversight. This regulatory treatment does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. Our rates are regulated on a state-by-state basis by the relevant state regulatory authorities based on an analysis of our costs, as reviewed and approved in a regulatory proceeding. The rates that we are allowed to charge may or may not match our related costs and allowed return on invested capital at any given time. While rate regulation is premised on the full recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the state public utility commissions will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce a full recovery of our costs and the return on invested capital allowed by the applicable state public utility commission. 18 Our operating results can be adversely affected by milder weather. Our utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on our operating performance. Demand for electricity is typically greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating, and demand for natural gas is extremely sensitive to winter weather effects on space heating requirements. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our service territory and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating seasons. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter. We expect that unusually mild summers and winters would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our utility business is subject to complex government regulations and changes in these regulations or in their implementation may affect the costs of operating our businesses, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Our natural gas and electric utilities operate in a highly regulated environment. Retail operations, including the prices charged, are regulated by the state public utility commissions for our service areas. Changes in regulatory requirements or adverse regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on our performance by, for example, increasing competition or costs, threatening investment recovery or impacting rate structure. In addition, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. To comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control and emission fees. New environmental laws and regulations affecting our operations, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may be adopted or become applicable to us. For example, the laws governing air emissions from coal-burning plants have recently been revised by federal and state authorities. These changes will result in the imposition of substantially more stringent limitations on these emissions than those currently in effect. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or subjected to additional costs. The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are a party to various material litigation matters and regulatory matters arising out of our business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability we may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. As further discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Cass County is seeking to require us to remove the South Harper power peaking facility. In May 2006, the Missouri Commission issued an order specifically authorizing our construction and operation of the power plant and substation. In June 2006, the trial court further stayed its injunction and 19 authorized us to operate the plant and substation while Cass County appealed the Missouri Commission's order. Cass County filed an appeal with the Circuit Court of Cass County, challenging the lawfulness and reasonableness of the Missouri Commission's order. In October 2006, the Circuit Court ruled that the Missouri Commission's order was unlawful and unreasonable. The Missouri Commission and Aquila appealed the court's decision, and in May 2007, oral arguments were heard by the Missouri Court of Appeals for the Western District of Missouri. We expect a decision from the appellate court in the first half of 2008. If we exhaust all of our legal options and are ordered to remove the plant and substation, we estimate the cost to dismantle these facilities to be up to $20 million. We estimate the incremental cost of relocating and reconstructing the plant and substation on a site that is being developed to meet future generation needs to be approximately $75 million based on recent engineering studies. Additional costs may be incurred to store the equipment before relocating it, and to secure replacement power until the plant and substation can be reconstructed. We cannot reasonably estimate with certainty the total amount of these and other incremental costs that could be incurred, or the potential impairment of the carrying value of our investment in the plant we could suffer to the extent the ultimate costs incurred exceed the amount allowed for recovery in rates. Risks Relating to the Merger The Merger may not be completed, which could adversely affect our business operations. We will not be able to complete the Merger until we obtain regulatory approvals from the Missouri and the Kansas utility commissions. If these approvals are not received, or they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions in the transaction agreements, then the parties will not be obligated to complete the transactions. In addition, the Merger is subject to other customary conditions. For example, the transactions may not be completed if either the operations being sold to Black Hills or our remaining businesses suffer a material adverse effect. Furthermore, the Merger and the asset sales are contingent upon the closing of the other transaction, meaning that one transaction will not close unless the other transaction closes. We are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending that could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us, regardless of whether it is completed. Although we have taken steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is completed or is terminated, and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with the parties. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. The departure of existing key employees or the failure of potential key employees to accept employment with us, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results, regardless of whether the transactions are eventually completed. In addition, the transaction agreements restrict us from taking certain actions until the transactions are completed or the agreements are terminated. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our businesses prior to completion of the transactions or termination of the agreements. 20 We will incur significant costs in connection with the Merger. We expect to incur significant costs (primarily investment banking, legal and employee retention costs) in connection with the Merger, regardless of whether it is completed. We will expense these costs as they are incurred. We incurred approximately $2.3 million and $16.6 million of costs (primarily investment banking and legal costs) related to the Merger in 2006 and 2007, respectively. On January 31, 2008, we paid $8.8 million to numerous non-executive employees pursuant to agreements entered into last year to mitigate employee attrition prior to the closing of the Merger. We cannot at this time estimate the total costs to be incurred by the Company prior to consummation of the Merger. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 