Item 1A. Risk Factors Operating Risks Our strategic repositioning plan depends on our ability to raise adequate proceeds from the Kansas electric asset sale and retire a sufficient amount of debt and other long-term liabilities with the net sale proceeds. In March 2005, we announced our strategic repositioning plan. Asset divestitures, including the sale of our Kansas electric utility property, were a key element of our plan. We have signed definitive agreements to sell our electric utility operations in Kansas for a base purchase price of $249.7 million. We anticipate using the net proceeds generated by this divestiture to retire debt and other obligations, and to fund capital expenditures, including rate-base investments required to satisfy our long-term power generation and transmission needs and comply with environmental rules and regulations. On February 23, 2007, the Kansas Commission issued an order approving the settlement agreement signed in connection with the sale of our Kansas electric operations. We expect this transaction to close by April 1, 2007. If we cannot complete this asset sale, or if we are not able to retire a principal amount of debt sufficient to reduce our interest expense to a level that can be satisfied by the cash flow generated by our remaining utility operations, we will continue to have a cash flow shortfall. We may also need to explore alternatives with respect to financing the significant capital expenditures anticipated in connection with environmental upgrades and compliance, as well as capital expenditures generally required to continue to provide safe and reliable service to our remaining utility customers. We must sustain the reduced level of corporate costs. In 2005, we allocated $42.3 million of operating costs, comprised of corporate overhead and central services, to our utility divisions held for sale. During 2006, we eliminated the majority of these costs following the sale of the Michigan, Minnesota and Missouri gas operations. Our 2007 plan includes a $39.5 million reduction in corporate costs compared to 2005. A portion of the cost reductions were achieved in non-allocated corporate costs. The remaining corporate costs have been reallocated to our remaining utilities. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to sustain these cost reductions and/or recover the remaining costs in rates in our continuing utility operations. We may continue to incur losses in our Merchant Services business. We may incur a material impairment charge if we decide to sell our interest in our Crossroads merchant peaking power plant. In addition, we expect to continue to incur operating losses from our remaining Merchant Services business. Our non-investment grade credit ratings have an adverse effect on our liquidity and borrowing costs. Our long-term senior unsecured debt is presently rated "B2" (Stable Outlook) by Moody's, and "B" (Positive Outlook) by S&P. Our non-investment grade ratings have increased our borrowing costs. These increases in our borrowing costs are not recoverable in our utility rates. In addition, our non-investment grade ratings generally require us to prepay our commodity purchases or post collateral to obtain trade credit. As of December 31, 2006, we had posted $265.1 million of collateral (in the form of cash or letters of credit) with counterparties. 21 Our ability to further reposition our Company as a regulated utility could be restricted by the terms of our finance agreements and our regulatory orders. Our credit facilities and regulatory orders contain restrictive covenants that could negatively impact our ability to continue to implement our strategic plan. For example, we must generally obtain the approval of the Kansas Commission prior to selling assets, and certain negative covenants contained in our credit facilities limit our ability to sell assets (or use the sale proceeds for various purposes) unless certain conditions are satisfied. The terms of our credit facilities and regulatory orders also limit the amount of additional indebtedness that we can incur. For example, our ability to incur indebtedness is restricted unless the additional indebtedness satisfies certain conditions (including use of proceeds restrictions), and prior to issuing long-term debt securities we must obtain the approval of the FERC and certain state commissions. Even if we were to repay our credit facilities, we would still be required to seek regulatory approvals to issue long-term debt. Thus, our ability to raise capital quickly (if at all) on favorable market terms could be limited. Our utility operations are subject to risks associated with higher fuel and purchased power prices, and we may not be able to recover costs of fuel and purchased power. Our regulated utilities produce, purchase and distribute power in three states and purchase and distribute natural gas in four states. Generally, the regulations of the states in which we operate allow us to pass through changes in the costs of natural gas to our natural gas utility customers through PGA provisions in the applicable tariffs. All of our Gas Utilities have PGA provisions that allow them to pass the prudently-incurred cost of the gas to the customer. To the extent that gas prices are higher or lower than amounts in our current billing rates, adjustments are made on a periodic basis to "true-up" billed amounts to match the actual cost we incurred. There is, however, a timing difference between our purchases of natural gas and the ultimate recovery of these costs. In our continuing regulated electric business, we generated approximately 53% of the power utilized by our utility customers and we purchased the remaining 47% through long-term contracts or in the open market in 2006. The regulatory provisions for recovering energy costs vary by state. In Kansas and Colorado, we have ECAs that serve a purpose similar to the PGAs for our gas utilities. To the extent that our fuel and purchased power costs vary from the energy cost built into our tariffs, the difference is passed through to the customer. In Missouri, which is our largest service area, we currently do not have the ability to adjust the rates we charge for electric service to offset all or part of any increase or decrease in prices we pay for fuel we use in generating electricity or for purchased power (i.e., a fuel adjustment mechanism). These costs could substantially reduce our operating results. We filed a rate case in July 2006 to implement a mechanism that will allow us to fully recover these costs; however, even if we are successful, we will not realize any rate relief until June 2007. Our inability to pass through fuel and purchased power costs to our Missouri electric customers may also adversely affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in our credit agreements, which if breached could cross default our other debt instruments. Regulatory commissions may refuse to approve some or all of the utility rate increases we may request in the future. Our regulated electricity and natural gas operations are subject to cost-of-service regulation and earnings oversight. This regulatory treatment does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. Our rates are regulated on a state-by-state basis by the relevant state regulatory authorities based on an analysis of our costs, as reviewed and approved in a 22 regulatory proceeding. The rates that we are allowed to charge may or may not match our related costs and allowed return on invested capital at any given time. While rate regulation is premised on the full recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the state public utility commissions will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce a full recovery of our costs and the return on invested capital allowed by the applicable state public utility commission. Our operating results can be adversely affected by milder weather. Our utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on our operating performance. Demand for electricity is typically greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating, and demand for natural gas is extremely sensitive to winter weather effects on space heating requirements. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our service territory and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating seasons. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter. We expect that unusually mild summers and winters would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our utility business is subject to complex government regulations and changes in these regulations or in their implementation may affect the costs of operating our businesses, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Our natural gas and electric utilities operate in a highly regulated environment. Retail operations, including the prices charged, are regulated by the state public utility commissions for our service areas. Changes in regulatory requirements or adverse regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on our performance by, for example, increasing competition or costs, threatening investment recovery or impacting rate structure. In addition, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. To comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control and emission fees. New environmental laws and regulations affecting our operations, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may be adopted or become applicable to us. For example, the laws governing air emissions from coal-burning plants have recently been revised by federal and state authorities. These changes will result in the imposition of substantially more stringent limitations on these emissions than those currently in effect. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or subjected to additional costs. The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are a party to various material litigation matters and regulatory matters arising out of our business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability we may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases 23 in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. As further discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Cass County is seeking to require us to remove the South Harper power peaking facility. Effective May 31, 2006, the Missouri Commission issued an order specifically authorizing our construction and operation of the power plant and substation. On June 2, 2006, the Circuit Court of Cass County further stayed its injunction, and authorized us to operate the plant and substation while Cass County appealed the Missouri Commission's order. In June 2006, Cass County filed an appeal with the Circuit Court, challenging the lawfulness and reasonableness of the Missouri Commission's order. On October 20, 2006, the Circuit Court ruled that the Missouri Commission's order was unlawful and unreasonable. The Missouri Commission and Aquila have appealed the court's decision, and the Missouri Court of Appeals for the Western District of Missouri is expected to hear oral arguments in May 2007. If we exhaust all of our legal options and are ordered to remove the plant and substation, we estimate the cost to dismantle the plant and substation to be up to $20 million based on an engineering study. Significant additional costs would be incurred to store the equipment, secure replacement power and/or build the plant and substation on other sites. We cannot estimate with certainty the total amount of these incremental costs that could be incurred, or the potential impairment of the carrying value of our investment in the plant we could suffer to the extent the cost exceeds the amount allowed for recovery in rates. We have several matters pending before the Internal Revenue Service, the negative outcome of which could materially impact our financial condition. All of our federal income tax returns are examined by the IRS. Currently, our federal income tax returns for the years 1998-2004 are under audit. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $377.3 million of cumulative tax provisions for tax deduction or income positions that we believe are proper but for which it is reasonably likely that these deductions or income positions will be challenged upon audit by the IRS. The timing of the resolution of these issues is uncertain. If our positions are not sustained, we may be required to utilize our capital loss and net operating loss or alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards and/or make cash payments plus interest. Risks Relating to the Merger The Merger and asset sales may not be completed, which could adversely affect our business operations and stock price. We will not be able to complete the Merger and the associated asset sales until we obtain regulatory approvals from the Missouri Commission, the Kansas Commission, the IUB, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission, the Nebraska Public Service Commission, and the FERC, as well as obtain regulatory clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. If these regulatory approvals and clearances are not received, or they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions in the transaction agreements, then the parties will not be obligated to complete the transactions. In addition, the Merger and the associated asset sales are subject to other customary conditions. For example, the transactions may not be completed if either the operations being sold to Black Hills or our remaining businesses suffer a material adverse effect between signing of the merger agreement and closing. Shareholder approval of the Merger and the issuance of 24 Great Plains Energy common stock in connection with the Merger is also required from our shareholders and Great Plains Energy's shareholders, respectively. Furthermore, the Merger and the asset sales are each contingent upon the closing of the other transaction, meaning that one transaction will not close unless the other transaction closes. The failure of the Merger to close could have a material adverse effect on the financial results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending that could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger and the associated asset sales on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us, regardless of whether the transactions are eventually completed. Although we have taken steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is completed or is terminated, and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with the parties. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. The departure of existing key employees or the failure of potential key employees to accept employment with us, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results, regardless of whether the transactions are eventually completed. In addition, the transaction agreements restrict us from taking certain actions until the transactions are completed or the agreements are terminated. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our businesses prior to completion of the transactions or termination of the agreements. We will incur significant costs in connection with the Merger and associated asset sales. We expect to incur significant costs (primarily investment banking, legal and employee retention costs) in connection with the Merger and associated asset sales, regardless of whether or not the transactions are completed. We will expense these costs as they are incurred. In 2006, we incurred approximately $2.3 million of costs (primarily investment banking and legal costs) related to these transactions. In February 2007, we incurred fees payable to our financial advisors of $6.1 million in connection with the signing and announcement of the merger agreement. In February 2007, we also executed retention agreements totaling $8.4 million with numerous non-executive employees to mitigate employee attrition prior to the closing of the Merger. The agreements will be paid on the earlier of the closing of the Merger or January 31, 2008. We cannot at this time estimate the total costs to be incurred by the Company prior to consummation of the Merger and the associated asset sales. In addition, if the Merger is completed, the combined company will incur significant transaction costs, such as fees payable to our financial advisors, amounts payable to employees under change-in-control agreements, and employee severance costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 