D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described in this section, which is intended to disclose all of the risks that we consider material based on the information currently available to us, as well as all the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk” and “Selected Statistical Data.” Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these factors. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks faced by us described in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business Because a large portion of our assets as well as our business operations are in Japan, we may incur losses if economic conditions in Japan worsen. Our performance is particularly affected by the general economic conditions of Japan where we are headquartered and conduct a significant amount of our business. As of March 31, 2014, 62.6% of our total assets were related to Japanese domestic assets, including Japanese national government and Japanese government agency bonds, which accounted for 75.6% of our total investment securities portfolio and 16.5% of our total assets, respectively. Interest and non-interest income in Japan represented 71.6% of our total interest and non-interest income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Furthermore, as of March 31, 2014, our loans in Japan accounted for 64.0% of our total loans outstanding. 7 Table of Contents Since December 2012, the Japanese government has put forth a series of policies, including emergency economic measures and a supplementary budget, expanded monetary easing, and a growth strategy. The Bank of Japan introduced quantitative and qualitative monetary easing in April 2013 in an effort to achieve an inflation target of two percent in two years. However, there is still significant uncertainty surrounding Japan’s economy. If these government policies prove ineffective, the growing debt burden of the Japanese government may adversely affect Japan’s economy. For example, if the prices of Japanese government bonds decrease, resulting in unexpectedly higher interest rates, our investment securities portfolio as well as our lending, borrowing, trading and other operations may be negatively impacted. In addition, under the legislation enacted by the Japanese Diet in August 2012, the consumption tax rate increased from 5% to 8% on April 1, 2014 and will increase further to 10% by October 2015, which may significantly weaken consumer spending in Japan. In recent periods, several credit rating agencies have downgraded the credit ratings of Japan’s sovereign debt, including a downgrade by Moody’s Japan K.K., or Moody’s, in August 2011 and a downgrade by Fitch Ratings Japan Limited, or Fitch, in May 2012. For a more detailed discussion of the risks related to increases in interest rates, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the value of our bond portfolio.” Instability in the Japanese stock market and foreign currency exchange rates may also have a significant adverse impact on our asset and liability management as well as our results of operations. Various other factors, including stagnation or deterioration of economic and market conditions in other countries, and growing global competition, may also have a material negative impact on the Japanese economy. For a detailed discussion on the business environment in Japan and abroad, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Business Environment.” Since our domestic loans in Japan accounted for a significant portion of our loan portfolio, deteriorating or stagnant economic conditions in Japan may cause adverse effects on our financial results, such as increases in credit costs, as the credit quality of some borrowers could deteriorate. For example, due to the intensifying global competition and weakening consumer spending in recent periods, some Japanese companies, including electronics manufacturers, have experienced significant financial difficulties. For a further discussion, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—We may suffer additional credit-related losses in the future if our borrowers are unable to repay their loans as expected or if the measures we take in reaction to, or in anticipation of, our borrowers’ deteriorating repayment abilities prove inappropriate or insufficient.” If the global economy deteriorates further, our credit-related losses may increase, and the value of the financial instruments we hold may decrease, resulting in losses. Global economic conditions remain volatile, and it is uncertain how the global economy will evolve over time. The shift in the monetary policy in the United States, slowing economic growth in China due to the deterioration of the Chinese financial market and other causes, and the political turmoil in various regions around world could negatively impact wider markets, including those of both emerging and developed countries. As of March 31, 2014, based principally on the domicile of the obligors, assets related to Europe accounted for approximately 8.8% of our total assets, assets related to Asia and Oceania excluding Japan accounted for approximately 8.8% of our total assets, and assets related to the United States accounted for approximately 16.0% of our total assets. If the global economy deteriorates or the global economic recovery significantly slows down again, the availability of credit may become limited, and some of our borrowers may default on their loan obligations to us, increasing our credit losses. In addition, concerns over the sovereign debt problem in some European countries may limit liquidity in the global financial markets. Some of our credit derivative transactions may also be negatively affected, including the protection we sold through single name credit default swaps, index and basket credit default swaps, and credit linked notes. The notional amounts of these protections sold as of March 31, 2014 were ¥2,692.1 billion, ¥773.8 billion and ¥4.5 billion, respectively. In addition, if credit market conditions worsen, our capital funding structure may need to be adjusted or our funding costs may increase, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Furthermore, we have incurred losses, and may incur further losses, as a result of changes in the fair value of our financial instruments resulting from weakening market conditions. For example, declines in the fair value of our investment securities, particularly equity investment securities, resulted in our recording impairment losses of ¥195.7 billion, ¥124.2 billion and ¥6.5 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. As of March 31, 2014, approximately 36.7% of our total assets were financial instruments for which we measure fair value on a recurring basis, and less than 0.5% of our total assets were financial instruments for which we measure fair value on a non-recurring basis. Generally, in order to establish the fair value of these instruments, we rely on quoted prices. If the value of these financial instruments declines, a corresponding write-down may be recognized in our consolidated statements of income. In addition, because we hold a large amount of investment securities, short-term fluctuations in the value of our securities may trigger losses or exit costs for us to manage our risk. For more information on our valuation method for financial instruments, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” Our business operations are exposed to risks of natural disasters, terrorism and other disruptions caused by external events. As a major financial institution incorporated in Japan and operating in major international financial markets, our business operations, ATMs and other information technology systems, personnel, and facilities and other physical assets are subject to the risks of earthquakes, typhoons, floods and other natural disasters, terrorism and other political and social conflicts, health epidemics, and other disruptions caused by external events, which are beyond our control. Our risk management policies and procedures may be insufficient to address these unanticipated risks, resulting in our inability to continue to operate a part or the whole of our business. As with other Japanese companies, we are exposed to heightened risks of large-scale natural disasters, particularly earthquakes. Our redundancy and backup measures may not be sufficient to avoid a material disruption in our operations, and our contingency and business continuity plans may not address all eventualities that may occur in the event of a material disruption. For example, large-scale natural disasters such as the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, which led to tsunamis, soil liquefaction and fires, as well as electricity power supply shortages and electricity power conservation measures resulting from the suspension of the operations of the nuclear power plants, could significantly disrupt our facilities and other operational infrastructures, including branches, offices, ATMs and information technology systems. As a consequence of earthquakes and other events, we may be required to incur significant costs and expenses for remedial measures or compensation to customers or transaction counterparties for resulting losses. We may also suffer loss of business. In addition, earthquakes and other events may have various other significant adverse effects, including deterioration in economic conditions, declines in the business performance of our borrowers and decreases in stock prices, which may result in higher credit costs or impairment or valuation losses on the financial instruments we hold. These effects could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may suffer additional credit-related losses in the future if our borrowers are unable to repay their loans as expected or if the measures we take in reaction to, or in anticipation of, our borrowers’ deteriorating repayment abilities prove inappropriate or insufficient. When we lend money or commit to lend money, we incur credit risk which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We may incur significant credit losses or have to provide for a significant amount of additional allowance for credit losses if: Ÿ large borrowers become insolvent or must be restructured; Ÿ domestic or global economic conditions, either generally or in particular industries in which large borrowers operate, deteriorate; 9 Table of Contents Ÿ the value of the collateral we hold, such as real estate or securities, declines; or Ÿ we are adversely affected by corporate credibility issues among our borrowers, to an extent that is worse than anticipated. As a percentage of total loans, impaired loans, which primarily include nonaccrual loans and troubled debt restructurings, or TDRs, ranged from 1.69% to 2.23% as of the five most recent fiscal year-ends. As of March 31, 2014, impaired loans were ¥1,861.0 billion, representing 1.69% of our total outstanding loans. If the economic conditions in Japan or other parts of the world to which we have significant credit risk exposure worsen, our problem loans and credit-related expenses may increase. An increase in problem loans and credit-related expenses would adversely affect our results of operations, weaken our financial condition and erode our capital base. For a discussion of our problem loans, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition.” We may provide additional loans, equity capital or other forms of support to troubled borrowers in order to facilitate their restructuring and revitalization efforts. We may also forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against them, and we may forgive loans to them in conjunction with their debt restructurings. We may take these steps even when such steps might not be warranted from the perspective of our short-term or narrow economic interests or a technical analysis of our legal rights against those borrowers, in light of other factors such as our longer-term economic interests, and our commitment to support the Japanese economy. These practices may substantially increase our exposure to troubled borrowers and increase our losses. Credit losses may also increase if we elect, or are forced by economic or other considerations, to sell or write off our problem loans at a larger discount, in a larger amount or in a different time or manner, than we may otherwise want. Although we, from time to time, enter into credit derivative transactions, including credit default swap contracts, to manage our credit risk exposure, such transactions may not provide the protection against credit defaults that we intended due to counterparty defaults or similar issues. The credit default swap contracts could also result in significant losses. As of March 31, 2014, the total notional amount of the protection we sold through single name credit default swaps, index and basket credit default swaps, and credit-linked notes was ¥3.46 trillion. In addition, negative changes in financial market conditions may restrict the availability and liquidity of credit default swaps. For more information on our credit derivative transactions, see Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our loan losses could prove to be materially different from our estimates and could materially exceed our current allowance for credit losses, in which case we may need to provide for additional allowance for credit losses and may also record credit losses beyond our allowance. Our allowance for credit losses in our loan portfolio is based on evaluations of customers’ creditworthiness and the value of collateral we hold. Negative changes in economic conditions, government policies or our borrowers’ repayment abilities could require us to provide for additional allowance. For example, companies in the Japanese electronics manufacturing industry in particular have experienced significant declines in sales and financial difficulties due to increased global competition. Moreover, the Japanese electric utility companies, including The Tokyo Electric Power Company, Incorporated, have been significantly affected by the accidents at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plants in March 2011 and subsequent developments, including the suspension of all of the nuclear power plants for seismic safety inspections and other reasons, higher fuel prices in recent periods and compensation issues for affected individuals and companies. Other borrowers in Japan may be adversely affected by electricity power supply shortages and electricity rate increases. As a result, our borrowers may incur financial and non-financial losses that exceed our estimations. In such case, we may need to provide for additional allowance for credit losses. Also, the regulatory standards or guidance on establishing allowances may also change, causing us to change some of the evaluations used in determining the allowances. As a result, we may need to provide for additional allowance for credit losses. For a discussion of our allowance policy, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition.” 10 Table of Contents For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we recorded ¥106.4 billion of credit for credit losses, which was included in our consolidated statements of income. When there is an improvement in asset quality, a credit for credit losses is recorded to reverse the allowance for credit losses to a level management deems appropriate. However, we have historically more often provided for credit losses rather than recording credit for credit losses, and in future periods we may need to recognize a provision for credit losses, which may have a significant negative effect on our results of operations. If the Japanese stock market or other global markets decline in the future, we may incur losses on our securities portfolio and our capital ratios will be adversely affected. A decline in Japanese stock prices could reduce the value of the Japanese domestic marketable equity securities that we hold, which accounted for 8.7% of our total investment securities portfolio, or 1.9% of our total assets, as of March 31, 2014. The Nikkei Stock Average, which is the average of 225 blue chip stocks listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, fluctuated throughout the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 declining to the intra-day lowest price of ¥11,805.78 on April 2, 2013 and rising to the intra-day highest price of ¥16,320.22 on December 30, 2013. As of July 7, 2014, the closing price of the Nikkei Stock Average was ¥15,379.44. Recent fluctuations in the Nikkei Stock Average have reflected the volatility in the global economy and investor sentiment as investors continue to observe the changes in the economic and monetary policies mainly in Japan, the United States, the Eurozone and Asian countries. For example, in Japan, if the economic measures under the Japanese government’s “Abenomics” policy prove ineffective or result in adverse consequences, the Japanese stock market will likely be adversely affected. In addition, weakening or stagnant economic conditions in other regions may have a significant negative impact on Japanese companies, which in turn will cause their stock prices to decline. Concerns over the impact of geopolitical tensions and conflicts in various parts of the world on Japanese companies may also adversely affect stock prices in Japan. If stock market prices decline or do not improve, we may incur losses on our securities portfolio. Because we hold a large amount of Japanese domestic marketable equity securities, even short-term fluctuations in the value of our securities may trigger losses or exit costs for us to manage our risk. Declines in the Japanese stock market or other global markets may also materially and adversely affect our capital ratios and financial condition. For a detailed discussion of our holdings of marketable equity securities and the effect of market declines on our capital ratios, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy” and “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the value of our bond portfolio. The aggregate carrying amount of the Japanese government and corporate bonds and foreign bonds, including U.S. Treasury bonds, that we held as of March 31, 2014 was 17.5% of our total assets. In particular, the Japanese national government and Japanese government agency bonds accounted for 16.5% of our total assets as of March 31, 2014. For a detailed discussion of our bond portfolio, see “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” The Bank of Japan has been maintaining a very low policy rate (uncollateralized overnight call rate) of 0.10% in an effort to lift the economy out of deflation. Short-term interest rates in Japan continue to decline because of the Bank of Japan’s so-called “quantitative and qualitative monetary easing” policy. As part of this policy, the Bank of Japan purchases up to ¥6.0 to ¥8.0 trillion of Japanese national government bonds each month. The central bank’s policies, however, may change, resulting in an interest rate increase. Separate from the central bank’s monetary policies, interest rates could also significantly increase in the event that Japanese government bonds decline in value due to such factors as a decline in confidence in the Japanese government’s fiscal administration, further issuances of government bonds in connection with emergency economic measures and concerns over excessive government intervention with the Bank of Japan, or in the event that interest rates on U.S. Treasury securities rise due to such factors as the tapering of quantitative easing in the United States if implemented earlier than expected. The yield on newly issued ten-year Japanese government bonds rose above 1% in May 2013 for the first time in a year. If relevant interest rates increase for these or other reasons, 11 Table of Contents particularly if such increase is unexpected or sudden, we may incur significant losses on sales of, and valuation losses on, our bond portfolio. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Business Environment.” Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may result in transaction losses on translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as well as foreign currency translation losses with respect to our foreign subsidiaries and equity method investees. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the Japanese yen create transaction gains or losses on the translation into Japanese yen of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent that our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities are not matched in the same currency or appropriately hedged, we could incur losses due to future foreign exchange rate fluctuations. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, the average balance of our foreign interest-earning assets was ¥77.09 trillion and the average balance of our foreign interest-bearing liabilities was ¥47.54 trillion, representing 36.3% of our average total interest-earning assets and 25.1% of our average total interest-bearing liabilities during the same period. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, net foreign exchange losses, which primarily include net transaction losses on the translation into Japanese yen of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, net losses on currency derivative instruments entered into for trading purposes, and net gains on translation into Japanese yen of securities accounted for under the fair value option, were ¥61.8 billion, compared to ¥39.0 billion for the previous fiscal year. In addition, we may incur foreign currency translation losses with respect to our foreign subsidiaries and equity method investees due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The average exchange rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 was ¥100.24 per U.S.$1.00, compared to ¥83.10 per U.S.$1.00 for the previous fiscal year. The change in the average exchange rate of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies had the effect of increasing total revenue by ¥285.2 billion, increasing net interest income by ¥171.0 billion and income before income tax expense by ¥115.4 billion, respectively, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Since the introduction of “Abenomics” in December 2012, the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar has been fluctuating with the Japanese yen depreciating from ¥92.57 to the U.S. dollar on April 2, 2013 to ¥105.44 to the U.S. dollar on January 2, 2014. As of July 7, 2014, the exchange rate was ¥101.86 to the U.S. dollar. For more information on foreign exchange gains and losses and foreign currency translation gains and losses, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Business Environment” and “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results.” We may become subject to regulatory actions or other legal proceedings relating to our transactions or other aspects of our operations, which could result in significant financial losses, restrictions on our operations and damage to our reputation. We conduct our business subject to ongoing regulation and associated regulatory and legal risks. Global financial institutions, including us, currently face heightened regulatory scrutiny as a result of the concerns developing in the global financial sector, and growing public pressure to demand even greater regulatory surveillance following several high-profile scandals and risk management failures in the financial industry. In the current regulatory environment, multiple government authorities with overlapping jurisdiction more frequently conduct investigations and take other regulatory actions in coordination with one another or separately on the same or related matters. In December 2012, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., or BTMU, agreed to make an approximately $8.6 million payment to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, of the U.S. Department of the Treasury to settle potential civil liability for apparent violations of certain U.S. sanctions regulations from 2006 to 2007. In June 2013, BTMU entered into a consent agreement with the New York State Department of Financial Services, or DFS, to resolve issues relating to certain U.S. dollar payments that were routed through New York from 2002 to 2007. Under the terms of the agreement with DFS, BTMU made a civil monetary payment of $250 million to DFS and retained an independent consultant to conduct a compliance review of the relevant controls and related matters in BTMU’s current operations. BTMU continues to cooperate closely with all relevant regulators and is undertaking necessary actions. 12 Table of Contents We have received requests and subpoenas for information from government agencies in some jurisdictions that are conducting investigations into past submissions made by panel members, including us, to the bodies that set various interbank benchmark rates. We are cooperating with these investigations and have been conducting an internal investigation among other things. In connection with these matters, we and other panel members have been named as defendants in a number of civil lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the United States. In June 2013, BTMU was censured by the Monetary Authority of Singapore for deficiencies in its governance, risk management and internal controls for its involvement in benchmark submissions and was directed, among other things, to adopt measures to address these deficiencies. These developments or other similar matters may result in additional regulatory actions against us or agreements to make significant additional settlement payments. These developments or other similar matters may also expose us to substantial monetary damages, legal defense costs, criminal and civil liability, and restrictions on our business operations as well as damage to our reputation. The outcome of such matters, including the extent of the potential impact of any unfavorable outcome on our financial results, however, is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. The extent of financial, human and other resources required to conduct any investigations or to implement any corrective or preventive measures is similarly uncertain and could be significant. Legal and regulatory changes could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a global financial services provider, our business is subject to ongoing changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and interpretations in Japan and other markets where we operate. Major global financial institutions currently face an increasingly stricter set of laws, regulations and standards as a result of the concerns enveloping the global financial sector. There is also growing political pressure to demand even greater internal compliance and risk management systems following several high-profile scandals and risk management failures in the financial industry. We may not be able to enhance our compliance risk management systems and programs, which, in some cases, are supported by third-party service providers, in a timely manner or as planned. Our risk management systems and programs may not be fully effective in preventing all violations of laws, regulations and rules. Our failure or inability to comply fully with the stricter set of laws and regulations could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to reputation, civil liability, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorization to operate, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Legal or regulatory compliance failure may also adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for future strategic initiatives. Furthermore, failure to take necessary corrective action, or the discovery of violations of laws in the process of further review of any of the matters mentioned above or in the process of implementing any corrective measures, could result in further regulatory action. We could also be required to incur significant expenses to comply with new or revised regulations. For example, if we adopt a new information system infrastructure in the future, we may be required to incur significant additional costs for establishing and implementing effective internal controls, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future developments or changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and their effects are expected to require greater capital resources and significant management attention, and may require us to modify our business strategies and plans. For example, since March 31, 2013, Japanese banking institutions with international operations have become subject to stricter capital adequacy requirements adopted by the Financial Services Agency of Japan, an agency of the Cabinet Office, or the FSA, based in part on the international regulatory framework generally known as “Basel III.” For more information, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—We may not be able to maintain our capital ratios above minimum required levels, which could result in the suspension of some or all of our operations.” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—Japan.” 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, regulatory reforms recently implemented, proposed and currently being debated in the United States may also significantly affect our business operations. For example, in February 2014, the Federal Reserve Board, or FRB, approved final rules strengthening supervision and regulation of large U.S. bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations, or FBOs. These final rules require a large FBO with $50 billion or more in U.S. combined assets excluding the assets held by its U.S. branches or agencies, such as us, to organize all of our U.S. bank and non-bank subsidiaries under a U.S. intermediate holding company that would be subject to U.S. capital requirements, capital stress testing, liquidity buffer requirements, and other enhanced prudential standards comparable to those applicable to top-tier U.S. bank holding companies of the same size. The rules will become effective in July 2016, and we continue to analyze the rules to assess its impact on our U.S. operations and overall governance structure. Significant resources and management attention may be required to ensure compliance with the rules. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—United States.” Global financial regulatory reform measures may also have a significant impact on our business operations. For example, various international organizations, including the Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, are currently considering ways to address, among other things, issues including the “too big to fail” issue and the measurement of interest rate risk in the banking book. We intend to continue to monitor developments relating to global regulatory reforms. Any adverse changes in the business of MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary in the United States, could significantly affect our results of operations. MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation, or MUAH, which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary in the United States formerly called UnionBanCal Corporation, or UNBC, has historically contributed to a significant portion of our net income. MUAH reported net income of $762 million, $628 million and $667 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Any adverse developments which could arise at MUAH may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The risks relating to MUAH have increased as MUAH has been expanding its business through acquisitions of community banks and other financially-related businesses in the United States. If MUAH is unable to achieve the benefits expected from its business strategies, including its business expansion strategy through acquisitions of community banks and other financially-related businesses, we may suffer an adverse financial impact. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments.” Other factors that have negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, MUAH’s results of operations include difficult economic conditions, such as a downturn in the real estate and housing industries in California and other states within the United States, the fiscal challenges being experienced by the U.S. federal and California state governments, substantial competition in the banking markets in California and other states within the United States and uncertainty over the U.S. economy, as well as fluctuating oil prices, negative trends in debt ratings, and interest rate uncertainties. Since the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, the U.S. banking industry has operated in an extremely low interest rate environment as a result of the highly accommodative monetary policy of the FRB, which has placed downward pressure on the net interest margins of U.S. banks, including MUAH. To the extent this policy continues, negative pressure on the net interest margins of U.S. banks, including MUAH, can be expected. Significant costs may arise from enterprise-wide compliance and risk management requirements, or failure to comply, with applicable laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act and related amendments under the USA PATRIOT Act, and any adverse impact of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the FRB and other U.S. bank regulators have adopted final rules to implement the Basel III global regulatory framework for U.S. banks and bank holding companies which require higher quality of capital, as well as significantly revise the calculations for risk-weighted assets. The FRB has also adopted final rules to implement various enhanced prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act for larger U.S. bank holding companies, such as MUAH. These standards require the larger bank holding companies to meet enhanced capital, 14 Table of Contents liquidity and leverage standards. Further, the FRB has adopted final regulations applicable to FBOs operating in the United States, which require MUFG’s and BTMU’s U.S. operations, including those of MUAH, to be restructured and, subject to certain exceptions, conducted under a single U.S. intermediate holding company, or IHC, with its own capital and liquidity requirements. Any actions management may take in response to these proposed regulatory changes may involve the issuance of additional capital or other measures. For more information, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—United States.” MUFG Union Bank, N.A., or MUB, which is the principal subsidiary of MUAH, and reportedly other financial institutions have been the targets of various denial-of-service or other cyberattacks as part of what appears to be a coordinated effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions and potentially test their cybersecurity in advance of future and more advanced cyberattacks. These denial-of-service attacks may require substantial resources to defend against and affect customer satisfaction and behavior. Moreover, MUB’s information security measures may not be sufficient to defend against cyberattacks and other information security breaches, in which case the consequences could be significant in terms of financial, reputational and other losses. In addition, there have been increasing efforts to breach data security at financial institutions as well as other types of companies, such as large retailers, or with respect to financial transactions, including through the use of social engineering schemes such as “phishing.” Even if cyberattacks and similar tactics are not directed specifically at MUB, such attacks on other large institutions could disrupt the overall functioning of the U.S. or global financial system and undermine consumer confidence in banks generally to the detriment of other financial institutions, including MUB. Any adverse changes in the business of Bank of Ayudhya, an indirect subsidiary in Thailand, could significantly affect our results of operations. Any adverse changes to the business or management of Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Limited, or Krungsri, in Thailand, which became one of our major subsidiaries in December 2013 following our acquisition of 72.01% of its total outstanding shares through a Voluntary Tender Offer for ¥545.8 billion, may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that may negatively affect Krungsri’s financial condition and results of operations include: Ÿ volatile political and social conditions, adverse economic conditions, substantial competition in the banking industry, natural disasters including floods, terrorism and armed conflicts, restrictions under applicable financial systems and regulations, or significant fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates, stock prices or commodity prices, in Southeast Asia, particularly in Thailand, Ÿ the business performance of companies making investments in and entering into markets in the Southeast Asian region, as well as the conditions of economies, financial systems, laws and financial markets in the countries where such companies primarily operate, Ÿ losses from legal proceedings involving Krungsri, Ÿ credit rating downgrades and declines in stock prices of Krungsri’s borrowers, and bankruptcies of Krungsri’s borrowers resulting from such factors, Ÿ defaults on Krungsri’s loans to individuals, Ÿ adverse changes in the cooperative relationship between us and the other major shareholder of Krungsri, Ÿ higher-than-expected costs incurred as we integrate Krungsri into our group, and Ÿ costs incurred due to unexpected weaknesses in the internal controls and regulatory compliance systems of Krungsri or any of its subsidiaries. In connection with our acquisition of Krungsri, we recorded ¥217.4 billion of goodwill. If the business of Krungsri deteriorates, we may be required to record impairment losses, which could have a material adverse 15 Table of Contents effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments” and “—Risks Related to Our Business—If the goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisitions becomes impaired, we may be required to record impairment losses, which may adversely affect our financial results and the price of our securities.” Our strategy to expand the range of our financial products and services and the geographic scope of our business globally may fail if we are unable to anticipate or manage new or expanded risks that entail such expansion. We continue to seek opportunities to expand the range of our products and services beyond our traditional banking and trust businesses, through development and introduction of new products and services or through acquisitions of or investments in financial institutions with products and services that complement our business. For example, taking advantage of our financial holding company status which enables us to underwrite securities, we are currently seeking to expand our corporate banking operations in the United States. In addition, the sophistication of financial products and management systems has been growing significantly in recent years. As a result, we are exposed to new and increasingly complex risks, while market and regulatory expectations that we manage these risk properly continue to rise. Some of the activities that our subsidiaries are expected to engage in, such as derivatives and foreign currency trading, present substantial risks. In some cases, we have only limited experience with the risks related to the expanded range of these products and services. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop or operate the necessary information systems. As a result, we may not be able to foresee the risks relating to new products and services. As we expand the geographic scope of our business, we will also be exposed to risks that are unique to particular jurisdictions or markets. For example, in an effort to further develop our operations in Asia, BTMU entered into a capital and business alliance with Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade in December 2012 and acquired approximately 20% of the ordinary shares of the Vietnamese bank in May 2013. In addition, in December 2013, BTMU purchased 72.01% of the outstanding shares of Krungsri. In some cases, we hold minority stakes in financial institutions as we seek to enter new markets or jurisdictions by collaborating with a local business partner. In such circumstances, the controlling shareholder may make or cause to be made business decisions that are inconsistent with our interests and, as a result, we may be unable to achieve the goals initially set out for the expansion strategy. Our risk management systems may prove to be inadequate and may not work in all cases or to the degree required. The substantial market, credit, compliance and regulatory risks in relation to the expanding scope of our products, services and trading activities or expanding our business beyond our traditional markets, could result in us incurring substantial losses. In addition, our efforts to offer new services and products or penetrate new markets may not succeed if product or market opportunities develop more slowly than expected, if our new services or products are not well accepted among customers, or if the profitability of opportunities is undermined by competitive pressures. For more information on our recent acquisition transactions, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments.” Unanticipated economic changes in, and measures taken in response to such changes by, emerging market countries could result in additional losses. We are increasingly active, through a network of branches and subsidiaries, in emerging market countries, particularly countries in Asia, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, and the Middle East. For example, based principally on the domicile of the obligors, assets related to Asia and Oceania excluding Japan increased 40.0% from ¥15.94 trillion as of March 31, 2013 to ¥22.31 trillion as of March 31, 2014, accounting for 8.8% of our total assets as of March 31, 2014. The economies of emerging market countries can be volatile and susceptible to adverse changes and trends in the global financial markets. For example, a decline in the value of local currencies of these countries could negatively affect the creditworthiness of some of our borrowers in these countries. The loans we have made to borrowers and banks in these countries are often denominated in 16 Table of Contents U.S. dollars, Euro or other foreign currencies. These borrowers often do not hedge the loans to protect against fluctuations in the values of local currencies. A devaluation of the local currency would make it more difficult for a borrower earning income in that currency to pay its debts to us and other foreign lenders. In addition, some countries in which we operate may attempt to support the value of their currencies by raising domestic interest rates. If this happens, the borrowers in these countries would have to devote more of their resources to repaying their domestic obligations, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their debts to us and other foreign lenders. The limited credit availability resulting from these conditions may adversely affect economic conditions in some countries. This could cause a further deterioration of the credit quality of borrowers and banks in those countries and cause us to incur further losses. In addition, should there be excessively rapid economic growth and increasing inflationary pressure in some of the emerging market countries, such developments could adversely affect the wider regional and global economies. Some emerging market countries may also change their monetary or other economic policies in response to economic and political instabilities or pressures, which are difficult to predict. As of March 31, 2014, based on the domicile of the obligors, our assets in Europe, Asia and Oceania excluding Japan, and other areas excluding Japan and the United States, were ¥22.35 trillion, ¥22.31 trillion and ¥9.56 trillion, representing 8.8%, 8.8% and 3.8% of our total assets, respectively. See “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition.” If our strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley fails, we could suffer financial or reputational loss. We have a global strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley, under which we operate two joint venture securities companies in Japan, engage in joint corporate finance operations in the United States and pursue other cooperative opportunities. We hold approximately 21.9% of the voting rights in Morgan Stanley as of March 31, 2014 and continue to hold approximately $521.4 million, or ¥ 53.6 billion, of perpetual non-cumulative non-convertible preferred stock with a 10% dividend. In addition, we currently have two representatives on Morgan Stanley’s board of directors. We initially entered into this strategic alliance in October 2008 with a view towards long-term cooperation with Morgan Stanley, and currently plan to deepen the strategic alliance. However, due to any unexpected changes in social, economic or financial conditions, changes in the regulatory environment, or any failure to integrate or share staff, products or services, or to operate, manage or implement the business strategy of the securities joint venture companies or other cooperative opportunities as planned, we may be unable to achieve the expected synergies from this alliance. If our strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley is terminated, it could have a material negative impact on our business strategy, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, because we conduct our securities operations in Japan through the joint venture companies we have with Morgan Stanley, such termination may result in our inability to attain the planned growth in this line of business. In addition, with our current investment in Morgan Stanley, we have neither a controlling interest in, nor control over the business operations of Morgan Stanley. If Morgan Stanley makes any business decisions that are inconsistent with our interests, we may be unable to achieve the goals initially set out for the strategic alliance. Furthermore, although we do not control Morgan Stanley, given the magnitude of our investment, if Morgan Stanley encounters financial or other business difficulties due to adverse changes in the economy, regulatory environment or other factors, we may suffer a financial loss on our investment or damage to our reputation. For example, we recorded an impairment loss of ¥579.5 billion on our investment in Morgan Stanley’s common stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, Morgan Stanley became an equity-method affiliate in our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, Morgan Stanley’s performance has a more significant impact on our results of operations as a result of equity method accounting. Further, fluctuations in Morgan Stanley’s stock price or in our equity ownership interest in Morgan Stanley may cause us to recognize additional losses on our investment in Morgan Stanley. 17 Table of Contents We may incur further losses as a result of financial difficulties relating to other financial institutions, both directly and through the effect they may have on the overall banking environment and on their borrowers. Some domestic and foreign financial institutions, including banks, non-bank lending and credit institutions, securities companies and insurance companies, have experienced declining asset quality, capital adequacy and other financial problems. This may lead to severe liquidity and solvency problems, which have in the past resulted in the liquidation, government control or restructuring of affected institutions. In addition, allegations or governmental prosecution of improper trading activities or inappropriate business conduct of a specific financial institution could also negatively affect the public perception of other global financial institutions individually and the global financial industry as a whole. These developments may adversely affect our financial results. Financial difficulties relating to financial institutions could adversely affect us because we have extended loans, some of which may need to be classified as impaired loans, to banks, securities companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries. Our loans to banks and other financial institutions have been more than 5% of our total loans as of each year-end in the three fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, with the percentage increasing from 11.0% to 12.5% between March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014. We may also be adversely affected because we are a shareholder of some other banks and financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries, including our shareholdings in Japanese regional banks and our 21.9% voting interest in Morgan Stanley as of March 31, 2014. If some of the financial institutions to which we have exposure experience financial difficulties, we may need to provide financial support to them even when such support might not be warranted from the perspective of our narrow economic interests because such institutions may be systematically important to the Japanese or global financial system. We may also be adversely affected because we enter into transactions, such as derivative transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other banks and financial institutions as counterparties. For example, we enter into credit derivatives with banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions for managing credit risk exposures, for facilitating client transactions, and for proprietary trading purposes. The notional amount of the protection we sold through these instruments was ¥3.46 trillion as of March 31, 2014. In addition, financial difficulties relating to financial institutions could indirectly have an adverse effect on us because: Ÿ we may be requested to participate in providing assistance to support distressed financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; Ÿ the government may elect to provide regulatory, tax, funding or other benefits to those financial institutions to strengthen their capital, facilitate their sale or otherwise, which in turn may increase their competitiveness against us; Ÿ deposit insurance premiums could rise if deposit insurance funds prove to be inadequate; Ÿ bankruptcies or government support or control of financial institutions could generally undermine confidence in financial institutions or adversely affect the overall banking environment; Ÿ failures or financial difficulties experienced by other financial institutions could result in additional regulations or requirements that increase the cost of business for us; and Ÿ negative media coverage of the financial industry, regardless of its accuracy and applicability to us, could affect customer or investor sentiment, harm our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our business or the price of our securities. Because of our loans to consumers and our shareholdings in companies engaged in consumer lending, changes in the business or regulatory environment for consumer finance companies in Japan may further adversely affect our financial results. We have a large loan portfolio in the consumer lending industry as well as large shareholdings in subsidiaries and equity method investees in the consumer finance industry. Our domestic loans to consumers 18 Table of Contents amount to approximately one-seventh of our total outstanding loans. Of this amount, the consumer loans provided by Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS, Co., Ltd., which is our primary consumer financing subsidiary, were ¥608.6 billion as of March 31, 2014, compared to ¥671.6 billion as of March 31, 2013. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS’s consumer loan portfolio has been adversely affected by a series of regulatory reforms recently implemented in Japan, which has affected the consumer lending industry in recent years. In December 2006, the Diet passed legislation to reform the regulations relating to the consumer lending business, including amendments to the Act Regulating the Receipt of Contributions, the Receipt of Deposits, and Interest Rates, which, effective June 18, 2010, reduced the maximum permissible interest rate from 29.2% per annum to 20% per annum. The regulatory reforms also included amendments to the Money Lending Business Act, which, effective June 18, 2010, abolished the so-called “gray-zone interest.” Gray-zone interest refers to interest rates exceeding the limits stipulated by the Interest Rate Restriction Act (between 15% per annum to 20% per annum depending on the amount of principal). Prior to June 18, 2010, gray-zone interest was permitted under certain conditions set forth in the Money Lending Business Act. As a result of the regulatory reforms, all interest rates are now subject to the lower limits imposed by the Interest Rate Restriction Act, compelling lending institutions, including our consumer finance subsidiaries and equity method investees, to lower the interest rates they charge borrowers. The regulations that became effective on June 18, 2010 also have had a further negative impact on the business of consumer finance companies as one of the new regulations requires, among other things, consumer finance companies to limit their lending to a single customer to a maximum of one third of the customer’s annual income regardless of the customer’s repayment capability, significantly affecting consumer financing companies. The regulations and regulatory reforms affecting the consumer finance business were one of the main factors that contributed to the decrease in interest income attributable to our consumer finance business. Our interest income attributable to the consumer finance business was approximately ¥190 billion and ¥160 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. However, following the regulatory changes in June 2010, our interest income attributable to the consumer finance business decreased to approximately ¥130 billion, ¥120 billion and ¥100 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, our interest income attributable to the consumer finance business was approximately ¥100 billion. In addition, as a result of decisions by the Supreme Court of Japan prior to June 18, 2010 imposing stringent requirements under the Money Lending Business Act for charging gray-zone interest rates, consumer finance companies have experienced a significant increase in borrowers’ claims for reimbursement of previously collected interest payments in excess of the limits stipulated by the Interest Rate Restriction Act. Following the various legal developments in June 2010 and other industry developments, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS revised its estimate by updating management’s future forecast to reflect new reimbursement claims information and other data. As of March 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we had ¥99.4 billion, ¥77.6 billion and ¥54.1 billion of allowance for repayment of excess interest, respectively. For the same periods, one of our equity method investees engaged in consumer lending, ACOM CO., LTD., had a negative impact of ¥19.3 billion, ¥17.0 billion and ¥18.0 billion, respectively, on net equity in losses of equity method investees in our consolidated statements of income. We intend to carefully monitor future developments and trends. These developments have adversely affected, and these and any future developments may further adversely affect, the operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries, equity method investees and borrowers which are engaged in consumer lending, which in turn may affect the value of our related shareholdings and loan portfolio. Our business may be adversely affected by competitive pressures, which have partly increased due to regulatory changes and recent market changes in the financial industry domestically and globally. In recent years, the Japanese financial system has been undergoing significant changes and regulatory barriers to competition have been reduced. In particular, any further reform of the Japanese postal savings 19 Table of Contents system, under which the Japan Post Group companies, including Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd., were established in October 2007, could substantially increase competition within the financial services industry as Japan Post Bank, with the largest deposit base and branch network in Japan, may begin to offer financial services in competition with our business operations generating fee income. In May 2012, amendments to the postal privatization law became effective under which Japan Post Bank and Japan Post Insurance may enter into new businesses upon obtaining government approvals, and if the government’s equity holdings decrease to a certain level, the two companies will be allowed to enter into new businesses upon submission of a notice to the government. As a result, the Japan Post Group companies may seek to enter into new financial businesses. The privatization of the Japan Post Group companies remains subject to political negotiations and government action. We also face intensifying competition in areas of our strategic expansion. For example, the Japanese mega banks, including us, and other major international banks have been expanding, or are expected to expand, their operations in the Asian market, where leading local banks have recently been growing and increasing their presence. In addition, there has been significant consolidation and convergence among financial institutions domestically and globally, and this trend may continue in the future and further increase competition in the market. A number of large commercial banks and other broad-based financial services firms have merged or formed strategic alliances with, or have acquired, other financial institutions both in Japan and overseas. As a result of the strategic alliance and the joint venture companies that we formed with Morgan Stanley, we may be newly perceived as a competitor by some of the financial institutions with which we had a more cooperative relationship in the past. If we are unable to compete effectively in this more competitive and deregulated business environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. For a more detailed discussion of our competition in Japan, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition.” Future changes in accounting standards could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Future developments or changes in accounting standards are unpredictable and beyond our control. For example, in response to the recent instabilities in global financial markets, several international organizations which set accounting standards have released proposals to revise standards on accounting for financial instruments. Accounting standards applicable to financial instruments remain subject to debate and revision by international organizations which set accounting standards. If the current accounting standards change in the future, the reported values of some of our financial instruments may need to be modified, and such modification could have a significant impact on our financial results or financial condition. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” We could also be required to incur significant expenses to comply with new accounting standards and regulations. For example, if we adopt a new accounting system in the future, we may be required to incur significant additional costs for establishing and implementing effective internal controls, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Transactions with counterparties in countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and investors in the United States and other countries to avoid doing business with us or investing in our shares. We, through our subsidiaries, engage in business activities with entities in or affiliated with Iran, including transactions with counterparties owned or controlled by the Iranian government, and our commercial banking subsidiary has a representative office in Iran. The U.S. Department of State has designated Iran and other countries as “state sponsors of terrorism,” and U.S. law generally prohibits U.S. persons from doing business with such countries. We currently have business activities with entities in or affiliated with such countries in accordance with our policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 20 Table of Contents We have loan transactions with counterparties in or affiliated with Iran, the outstanding balance of which was approximately $4.5 million, representing less than 0.001% of our total assets, as of March 31, 2014. We do not have any loans outstanding to the financial institutions specifically listed by the U.S. government. In addition to such loan transactions, our other transactions with counterparties in or affiliated with countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism consist of receiving deposits or holding assets on behalf of individuals residing in Japan who are citizens of countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism, processing payments to or from entities in or affiliated with these countries on behalf of our customers, and issuing letters of credit and guarantees in connection with transactions with entities in or affiliated with such countries by our customers. These transactions do not have a material impact on our business or financial condition. For a further discussion of transactions required to be disclosed under the U.S. Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—United States—Disclosure pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.” We are aware of initiatives by U.S. governmental entities and non-government entities, including institutional investors such as pension funds, to adopt or consider adopting laws, regulations or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with Iran and other countries identified as state sponsors of terrorism. It is possible that such initiatives may result in our being unable to gain or retain entities subject to such prohibitions as customers, counter-parties or investors in our shares. In addition, depending on socio-political developments, our reputation may suffer due to our transactions with counterparties in or affiliated with these countries. The above circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Global financial institutions, including us, have become subject to an increasingly complex set of sanctions laws and regulations in recent years, and this regulatory environment is expected to continue. Moreover, the measures proposed or adopted vary across the major jurisdictions, increasing the cost and resources necessary to design and implement an appropriate global compliance program. The U.S. federal government and some state governments in the United States have enacted legislation designed to limit economic and financial transactions with Iran by limiting the ability of financial institutions that may have engaged in any one of a broad range of activities related to Iran to conduct various transactions in the relevant jurisdictions. The Japanese government has also implemented a series of measures under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act, such as freezing the assets of designated financial institutions and others that could contribute to Iran’s nuclear activities, and our most recently modified policies and procedures take into account the current Japanese regulatory requirements. There remains a risk of potential U.S. regulatory action against us, however, if U.S. regulators perceive the modified policies and procedures not to be in compliance with applicable regulations. We may not be able to maintain our capital ratios above minimum required levels, which could result in the suspension of some or all of our operations. We, as a holding company, and our Japanese banking subsidiaries are required to maintain risk-weighted capital ratios above the levels specified in the capital adequacy guidelines of the FSA which have been revised as of March 31, 2013, as described below. As of March 31, 2014, our total risk-adjusted capital ratio was 15.53% compared to the minimum risk-adjusted capital ratio required of 8.00%, our Tier 1 capital ratio was 12.45% compared to the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio required of 5.50%, and our Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.25% compared to the minimum Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio required of 4.00%. Our capital ratios are calculated in accordance with Japanese banking regulations based on information derived from our financial statements prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP. In addition, some of our subsidiaries are also subject to the capital adequacy rules of various foreign countries, including the United States where each of MUFG, BTMU, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, or MUTB, and MUAH is a financial holding company under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act. We or our banking subsidiaries may be unable to continue to satisfy the capital adequacy requirements because of: Ÿ increases in our and our banking subsidiaries’ credit risk assets and expected losses because of fluctuations in our or our banking subsidiaries’ portfolios due to deterioration in the creditworthiness of borrowers and the issuers of equity and debt securities, 21 Table of Contents Ÿ difficulty in refinancing or issuing instruments upon redemption or at maturity of such instruments to raise capital under terms and conditions similar to prior financings or issuances, Ÿ declines in the value of our or our banking subsidiaries’ securities portfolios, Ÿ adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, Ÿ adverse revisions to the capital ratio requirements, Ÿ reductions in the value of our or our banking subsidiaries’ deferred tax assets, and Ÿ other adverse developments. The Group of Central Bank Governors and Heads of Supervision has made a series of announcements regarding the new global regulatory framework, which has been referred to as “Basel III,” to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector. Various Basel III measures are being phased in from the calendar year 2013, including those designed to raise the level of minimum capital requirements and to establish an internationally harmonized leverage ratio and a global minimum liquidity standard. In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has proposed additional loss absorbency requirements to supplement the Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement ranging from 1% to 3.5% for global systemically important banks, or G-SIBs, depending on the bank’s systemic importance. The Financial Stability Board identified us as a G-SIB in its most recent annual report published in November 2013, and indicated that, as a G-SIB, we would be required to hold an additional 1.5% of Tier 1 common equity. The group of banks identified as G-SIBs is expected to be updated annually, and the first group of G-SIBs to which the stricter capital requirements will initially be applied is expected to be identified in 2014. The stricter capital requirements are expected to be implemented in phases between January 1, 2016 and December 31, 2018 and will become fully effective on January 1, 2019. Based on the Basel III framework, the Japanese capital ratio framework has been revised to implement the more stringent requirements, which are being implemented in phases beginning on March 31, 2013. Likewise, local banking regulators outside of Japan, such as those in the United States, have begun, or are expected, to revise the capital and liquidity requirements imposed on our subsidiaries and operations in those countries to implement the more stringent requirements of Basel III as adopted in those countries. Under the capital adequacy guidelines of the FSA, which have been revised in connection with the adoption of Basel III, there is a transitional measure relating to the inclusion as a capital item of capital raising instruments issued in or prior to March 2013, and such instruments can be included as a capital item when calculating capital ratios to the extent permitted by the transitional measure. Such capital raising instruments may require refinancing upon the expiration of the transition period during which such instruments can be included as a capital item in the calculation of capital ratios. However, in order for newly issued capital raising instruments, other than common stock, to be included as a capital item in the calculation of capital ratios under the capital adequacy guidelines, such instruments must have a clause in their terms and conditions that requires them to be written off or converted into common stock upon the occurrence of certain events, including when the issuing financial institution is deemed non-viable or when the issuing financial institution’s capital ratios decline below prescribed levels. As a result, under certain market conditions, we may be unable to refinance or issue capital raising instruments under terms and conditions similar to those of capital raising instruments issued in or prior to March 2013. If such circumstances arise, our and our banking subsidiaries’ capital could be reduced, and our and our bank subsidiaries’ capital ratio could decrease. In addition, under the FSA’s capital adequacy guidelines, deferred tax assets can be included as a capital item when calculating capital ratios up to a prescribed amount. However, this upper limit is expected to be reduced in phases. If and to the extent the amount of deferred tax assets exceeds this limit and cannot be included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, our and our banking subsidiaries’ capital ratios can decrease. If our capital ratios fall below required levels, the FSA could require us to take a variety of corrective actions, including withdrawal from all international operations or suspension of all or part of our business operations. In addition, if the capital ratios of our subsidiaries subject to capital adequacy rules of foreign 22 Table of Contents jurisdictions fall below the required levels, the local regulators could also take action against them that may result in reputational damage or financial losses to us. Since maintaining our capital ratios at acceptable levels is crucial to our business, our management devotes a significant amount of attention and resources to capital ratio related issues and may also significantly alter our business strategy or operations if our capital ratios decline to unacceptable levels. For a discussion of our capital ratios and the related regulatory guidelines, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation” and “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy.” If the goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisitions becomes impaired, we may be required to record impairment losses, which may adversely affect our financial results and the price of our securities. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we account for our business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting. We recorded the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies as goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. As of March 31, 2014, the total balance of goodwill was ¥728.5 billion. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we recognized ¥7.8 billion in impairment of goodwill relating to the Integrated Trust Assets Business Group segment. We readjusted our future projection of a reporting unit in this segment, considering a subsidiary’s recent business performance. As a result, the fair value of this reporting unit, which is based on discounted future cash flows, fell below the carrying amount of the reporting unit, and the impairment loss was recognized on the related goodwill. We may be required to record additional impairment losses relating to goodwill in future periods if the fair value of any of our reporting units declines below the fair value of related assets net of liabilities. Any additional impairment losses will negatively affect our financial results, and the price of our securities could be adversely affected. For a detailed discussion of our periodic testing of goodwill for impairment and the goodwill recorded, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates—Accounting for Goodwill and Intangible Assets.” A further downgrade of our credit ratings could trigger additional collateral obligations under our derivative contracts and increase our funding costs. In August 2011, Moody’s announced that it downgraded the long-term credit ratings of BTMU and MUTB by one-notch from Aa2 to Aa3, and the long-term credit rating of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holding Co., Ltd., or MUSHD, by one-notch from A1 to A2. On July 20, 2012, Fitch downgraded the ratings assigned to BTMU and MUTB by one-notch from A to A-, although Fitch subsequently upgraded them. A further credit rating downgrade by Moody’s, Fitch, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services LLC or any other credit rating agency may have an adverse impact on us. Substantially all of the derivative contracts with collateral obligations entered into by BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD are subject to a Credit Support Annex, or CSA, as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., or ISDA. Following the downgrades by Moody’s and Fitch, some of our existing CSAs were modified to require, and some of the new CSAs that we entered into required, additional collateral at lower thresholds. Assuming all of the relevant credit rating agencies downgraded the credit ratings of BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD by one-notch on March 31, 2014, we estimate that our three main subsidiaries under their derivative contracts as of the same date, would have been required to provide additional collateral of approximately ¥6.5 billion. Assuming a two-notch downgrade by all of the relevant credit rating agencies occurred on the same date, we estimate that the additional collateral requirements for BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD under their derivative contracts as of the same date would have been approximately ¥12.6 billion. In addition, a further downgrade of the credit ratings of our major subsidiaries could result in higher funding costs. For additional information on the impact of recent downgrades, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Sources of Funding and Liquidity.” 23 Table of Contents Failure to safeguard personal and other confidential information may result in liability, reputational damage or financial losses. As our operations expand in volume, complexity and geographic scope, we are exposed to increased risk of confidential information in our possession being lost, leaked, altered or falsified as a result of human or system error, misconduct, unlawful behavior or scheme, unauthorized access or natural or human-caused disasters. Our information systems and information management policies and procedures may not be sufficient to safeguard confidential information against such risks. As a financial institution in possession of customer information, we are required to treat personal and other confidential information as required by the Act on the Protection of Personal Information of Japan, as well as the Banking Law and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. In the event that personal information in our possession about our customers or employees is leaked or improperly accessed and subsequently misused, we may be subject to liability and regulatory action. We may have to provide compensation for economic loss and emotional distress arising out of a failure to protect such information. In addition, such incidents could create a negative public perception of our operations, systems or brand, which may in turn decrease customer and market confidence and materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any loss, leakage, alteration or falsification of confidential information, or any malfunction or failure of our information systems, may result in significant disruptions to our business operations or plans or may require us to incur significant financial, human and other resources to implement corrective measures or enhance our information systems and information management policies and procedures. Risks Related to Owning Our Shares It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors, corporate auditors or other management members, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We are a joint stock company incorporated under the laws of Japan. Almost all of our directors, corporate auditors or other management members reside outside the United States. Many of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce, against us or these persons, judgments obtained in the U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We believe there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions brought in Japanese courts to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of claims predicated solely upon the U.S. federal or state securities laws mainly because the Civil Execution Act of Japan requires Japanese courts to deny requests for the enforcement of judgments of foreign courts if foreign judgments fail to satisfy the requirements prescribed by the Civil Execution Act, including: Ÿ the jurisdiction of the foreign court be recognized under laws, regulations, treaties or conventions; Ÿ proper service of process be made on relevant defendants, or relevant defendants be given appropriate protection if such service is not received; Ÿ the judgment and proceedings of the foreign court not be repugnant to public policy as applied in Japan; and Ÿ there exist reciprocity as to the recognition by a court of the relevant foreign jurisdiction of a final judgment of a Japanese court. Judgments obtained in the U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws may not satisfy these requirements. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our ADSs As a holder of ADSs, you have fewer rights than a shareholder of record in our shareholder register since you must act through the depositary to exercise these rights. The rights of our shareholders under Japanese law to take actions such as voting, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian, is the record holder of the shares underlying the American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, only the depositary can exercise shareholder rights relating to the deposited shares. ADS holders, in their capacity, will not be able to directly bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records and exercise appraisal rights. We have appointed The Bank of New York Mellon as depositary, and we have the authority to replace the depositary. Pursuant to the deposit agreement among us, the depositary and a holder of ADSs, the depositary will make efforts to exercise voting or any other rights associated with shares underlying ADSs in accordance with the instructions given by ADS holders, and to pay to ADS holders dividends and distributions collected from us. However, the depositary can exercise reasonable discretion in carrying out the instructions or making distributions, and is not liable for failure to do so as long as it has acted in good faith. Therefore, ADS holders may not be able to exercise voting or any other rights in the manner that they had intended, or may lose some or all of the value of the dividends or the distributions. Moreover, the depositary agreement that governs the obligations of the depositary may be amended or terminated by us and the depositary without your consent, notice, or any reason. As a result, you may be prevented from having the rights in connection with the deposited shares exercised in the way you had wished or at all. ADS holders are dependent on the depositary to receive our communications. We send to the depositary all of our communications to ADS holders, including annual reports, notices and voting materials, in Japanese. ADS holders may not receive all of our communications with shareholders of record in our shareholder register in the same manner or on an equal basis. In addition, ADS holders may not be able to exercise their rights as ADS holders due to delays in the depositary transmitting our shareholder communications to ADS holders. For a detailed discussion of the rights of ADS holders and the terms of the deposit agreement, see “Item 10.B. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 