D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described in this section, which is intended to disclose all of the risks that we consider material based on the information currently available to us, as well as all the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk” and “Selected Statistical Data.” Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these factors. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks faced by us described in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business Because a large portion of our assets are located in Japan and our business operations are conducted primarily in Japan, we may incur further losses if economic conditions in Japan worsen. Our performance is particularly affected by the general economic conditions of Japan where we are headquartered and conduct a significant amount of our business. As of March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, 74.5%, 71.9% and 69.1% of our total assets were related to Japanese domestic assets, respectively, including Japanese national government and Japanese government agency bonds, which accounted for 73.8%, 77.5% and 81.1% of our total investment securities portfolio, and 20.2%, 22.6% and 23.0% of our total assets, respectively. Moreover, 72.8% of our total interest and non-interest income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 related to such income in Japan. Furthermore, as of March 31, 2012, our domestic loans in Japan accounted for approximately 73.8% of our total loans outstanding. 6 Table of Contents The Japanese economy slowed down in the quarter ended June 30, 2011 following the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011 and again in the third quarter ended December 31, 2011 as overseas economies deteriorated and the Japanese yen appreciated against other major currencies. The exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the US dollar fluctuated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, with the yen appreciating to the highest rate for the fiscal year of ¥75.32 to the US dollar on October 31, 2011. As of July 10, 2012, the exchange rate was ¥79.25 to US$1. The Japanese economy may further deteriorate if, for example, the yen continues to appreciate or remains at current levels against other currencies, consumer spending in Japan is negatively affected by various factors such as tax rate increases, or the global economy worsens due to the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe. Shortages in electricity supply and electricity rate increases could also further adversely affect the Japanese economy. Growing global competition may adversely affect Japanese companies and, as a result, the Japanese economy as a whole. In addition, there is significant uncertainty surrounding political decision-making over, and the execution of measures in response to, issues that could have a significant impact on Japan’s economy, including Japan’s energy, tax and social security policies, issuance of government bonds as well as responses to the Great East Japan Earthquake. In recent periods, several credit rating agencies have downgraded the credit ratings of Japan’s sovereign debt, including a downgrade by Moody’s Japan K.K., or Moody’s, in August 2011 and a downgrade by Fitch Ratings Japan Limited, or Fitch, in May 2012. For a detailed discussion on the business environment in Japan and abroad, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Business Environment” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments.” Since the accidents at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plants in March 2011, the Japanese electric utility industry has been experiencing significant difficulties and has been influenced by evolving public policy. In particular, The Tokyo Electric Power Company, Incorporated, or TEPCO, and the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund, which is a government-supported fund, drafted a Comprehensive Special Business Plan to address TEPCO’s problems following the accidents at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plants. That plan was approved by the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry in May 2012. The plan provides for a ¥1 trillion capital injection into TEPCO by the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund in July 2012. In addition, as part of the plan, TEPCO has requested its primary lenders, which includes us, to (1) maintain all existing credit lines until TEPCO can procure financing independently through corporate bond issuances, (2) re-lend any previous loans that TEPCO may have repaid between March 11 and September 30, 2011, and (3) provide additional debt financing of up to approximately ¥1 trillion in aggregate (including the amount provided in response to the request as described in (2) above). No request for debt-forgiveness was made to the lenders as part of the plan. We are carefully monitoring TEPCO’s progress under the plan, and are currently considering providing the requested financial support to TEPCO if TEPCO’s operations and financial standing are in accordance with the plan without any material change. Assuming that we had provided the additional debt financing requested by TEPCO under the plan as of March 31, 2012, our aggregate loans outstanding to the Japanese electric utility industry would have been approximately 2% of our total outstanding loans as of such date. Since, as described above, our domestic loans in Japan accounted for a significant portion of our loan portfolio, deteriorating or stagnant economic conditions in Japan have resulted in, and will likely further cause, indirect adverse effects on our financial results such as increases in credit costs as the credit quality of some borrowers could deteriorate. For a further discussion, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—We may suffer additional credit-related losses in the future if our borrowers are unable to repay their loans as expected or if the measures we take in reaction to, or in anticipation of, our borrowers’ deteriorating repayment abilities prove inappropriate or insufficient.” In addition, our Japanese domestic marketable equity securities portfolio and Japanese government bond portfolio may be adversely affected, depending on how the Japanese economy performs in general and what governmental policies may be adopted in the future. Deteriorating or stagnant economic conditions in Japan may also result in a decrease in the volume of financial transactions in general, which in turn may reduce our domestic income from fees and commissions. For a further discussion of our results of operations on a geographic basis, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Geographic Segment Analysis.” 7 Table of Contents If the global economy deteriorates further, our credit-related losses may increase, and the value of the financial instruments we hold may decrease, resulting in losses. Global economic conditions remain volatile, and it is uncertain how the global economy will evolve over time. Especially, the financial turmoil caused by the credit crises in some European countries has negatively impacted wider markets, including those of both emerging and developed countries. As of March 31, 2012, based principally on the domicile of the obligors, assets related to Europe accounted for approximately 8.7% of our total assets, assets related to Asia and Oceania excluding Japan accounted for approximately 5.8% of our total assets, and assets related to the United States accounted for approximately 13.2% of our total assets. If the global economy deteriorates or the global economic recovery significantly slows down again, the availability of credit may become limited, and some of our borrowers may default on their loan obligations to us, increasing our credit losses. In addition, concerns over the sovereign debt problem in some European countries may limit liquidity in the global financial markets. Some of our credit derivative transactions may also be negatively affected, including the protection we sold through single name credit default swaps, index and basket credit default swaps, and credit linked notes. The notional amounts of these protections sold as of March 31, 2012 were ¥2.63 trillion, ¥0.67 trillion and ¥0.04 trillion, respectively. In addition, if credit market conditions worsen, our capital funding structure may need to be adjusted or our funding costs may increase, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we have incurred losses, and may incur further losses, as a result of changes in the fair value of our financial instruments resulting from weakening market conditions. For example, declines in the fair value of our investment securities, particularly equity investment securities, resulted in our recording impairment losses of ¥117.5 billion, ¥139.0 billion and ¥195.7 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. As of March 31, 2012, approximately 43% of our total assets were financial instruments for which we measure fair value on a recurring basis, and less than 0.5% of our total assets were financial instruments for which we measure fair value on a nonrecurring basis. Generally, in order to establish the fair value of these instruments, we rely on quoted market prices. If the value of these financial instruments declines, a corresponding write-down may be recognized in our consolidated statements of income. In addition, because we hold a large amount of investment securities, short-term fluctuations in the value of our securities may trigger losses or exit costs for us to manage our risk. For more information on our valuation method for financial instruments, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” We may suffer additional credit-related losses in the future if our borrowers are unable to repay their loans as expected or if the measures we take in reaction to, or in anticipation of, our borrowers’ deteriorating repayment abilities prove inappropriate or insufficient. When we lend money or commit to lend money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We may incur significant credit losses or have to provide for a significant amount of additional allowance for credit losses if: Ÿ large borrowers become insolvent or must be restructured; Ÿ domestic or global economic conditions, either generally or in particular industries in which large borrowers operate, deteriorate; Ÿ the value of the collateral we hold, such as real estate or securities, declines; or Ÿ we are adversely affected by corporate credibility issues among our borrowers, to an extent that is worse than anticipated. As a percentage of total loans, nonaccrual and restructured loans and accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or more ranged from 1.70% to 2.36% as of the five recent fiscal year-ends, reaching its highest level of 2.36% as of March 31, 2011 and 2012. Nonaccrual and restructured loans and accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or more increased to ¥2.2 trillion at March 31, 2012, from ¥2.1 trillion at March 31, 2011, primarily due to an increase in such loans in our domestic loan portfolio. If the recession in Japan worsens again, our 8 Table of Contents problem loans and credit-related expenses may increase. An increase in problem loans and credit-related expenses would adversely affect our results of operations, weaken our financial condition and erode our capital base. For a discussion of our problem loans, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition” and “Selected Statistical Data—Loan Portfolio.” Due to the nuclear power plant accidents in Fukushima Prefecture following the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, certain areas in eastern Japan were affected by radiation contamination, and the Kanto region of Japan, where Tokyo is located, experienced electricity supply shortages. Electricity is expected to fall short in supply in wider regions of Japan. Electricity supply shortages are expected to have a significant negative impact on the recovery efforts in the northeastern region of Japan and could also disrupt the economic and industrial activities in other regions of Japan. Increased costs are expected to secure alternative sources of electricity, parts and other materials, and to provide financial support or compensation for affected individuals and companies. In addition, electricity rates have been raised, and may be further raised, which will affect our borrowers in Japan. As a result, our borrowers’ financial condition and creditworthiness could deteriorate, and our credit-related expenses with respect to our domestic credit portfolio could increase. We may provide additional loans, equity capital or other forms of support to troubled borrowers in order to facilitate their restructuring and revitalization efforts. We may also forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against them, and we may forgive loans to them in conjunction with their debt restructurings. We may take these steps even when such steps might not be warranted from the perspective of our short-term or narrow economic interests or a technical analysis of our legal rights against those borrowers, in light of other factors such as our longer-term economic interests, and our commitment to support the Japanese economy. These practices may substantially increase our exposure to troubled borrowers and increase our losses. Credit losses may also increase if we elect, or are forced by economic or other considerations, to sell or write off our problem loans at a larger discount, in a larger amount or in a different time or manner, than we may otherwise want. Although we, from time to time, enter into credit derivative transactions, including credit default swap contracts, to manage our credit risk exposure, such transactions may not provide the protection against credit defaults that we intended due to counterparty defaults or similar issues. The credit default swap contracts could also result in significant losses. As of March 31, 2012, the total notional amount of the protection we sold through single name credit default swaps, index and basket credit default swaps, and credit-linked notes was ¥3.3 trillion. In addition, negative changes in financial market conditions may restrict the availability and liquidity of credit default swaps. For more information on our credit derivative transactions, see Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our loan losses could prove to be materially different from our estimates and could materially exceed our current allowance for credit losses, in which case we may need to provide for additional allowance for credit losses and may also record credit losses beyond our allowance. Our allowance for credit losses in our loan portfolio is based on evaluations about customers’ creditworthiness and the value of collateral we hold. Negative changes in economic conditions or our borrowers’ repayment abilities could require us to provide for additional allowance. For example, borrowers in wider regions of Japan may be adversely affected due to the compensation issues for affected individuals and companies, electricity power supply shortages and electricity rate increases, and other indirect consequences of the Great East Japan Earthquake beyond our expectations, as well as changes in governmental policies in the future. As a result, our borrowers may incur financial and nonfinancial losses that exceed our estimations. In such case, we may need to provide for additional allowance for credit losses. Also, the regulatory standards or guidance on establishing allowances may also change, causing us to change some of the evaluations used in determining the allowances. As a result, we may need to provide for additional allowance for credit losses. For a discussion of our allowance policy, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition.” 9 Table of Contents If the Japanese stock market or other global markets decline in the future, we may incur losses on our securities portfolio and our capital ratios will be adversely affected. A decline in Japanese stock prices could reduce the value of the Japanese domestic marketable equity securities that we hold, which accounted for 5.6% of our total investment securities portfolio, or 1.6% of our total assets, as of March 31, 2012. The Nikkei Stock Average, which is the average of 225 blue chip stocks listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, fluctuated throughout the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, with the closing price of the Nikkei Stock Average declining to ¥8,160.01 on November 25, 2011. As of July 10, 2012, the closing price of the Nikkei Stock Average was ¥8,857.73. Fluctuations in the Nikkei Stock Average have mainly reflected volatility in the global economy and weak investor sentiment that remains cautious in light of uncertainties surrounding the global financial and capital markets and, to some extent, the appreciating Japanese yen and the growing global competition adversely affecting Japanese companies. If stock market prices further decline or do not improve, we may incur additional losses on our securities portfolio. Because we hold a large amount of Japanese domestic marketable equity securities, even short-term fluctuations in the value of our securities may trigger losses or exit costs for us to manage our risk. Further declines in the Japanese stock market or other global markets may also materially and adversely affect our capital ratios and financial condition. For a detailed discussion of our holdings of marketable equity securities and the effect of market declines on our capital ratios, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy” and “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” If our strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley fails, we could suffer financial or reputational loss. We have entered into a global strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley, under which we operate two joint venture securities companies in Japan, engage in joint corporate finance operations in the United States and pursue other cooperative opportunities. We hold approximately 21.8% of the voting rights in Morgan Stanley as of March 31, 2012 and continue to hold approximately $0.5 billion, or ¥53.6 billion, of perpetual non-cumulative non-convertible preferred stock with a 10% dividend. In addition, we currently have two representatives on Morgan Stanley’s board of directors. We initially entered into this strategic alliance in October 2008 with a view towards long-term cooperation with Morgan Stanley, and currently plan to deepen the strategic alliance, given that the voluntary conversion of the convertible preferred stock to the common stock was completed in June 2011. However, due to any unexpected changes in social, economic or financial conditions, changes in the regulatory environment, or any failure to integrate or share staff, products or services, or to operate, manage or implement the business strategy of the securities joint venture companies or other cooperative opportunities as planned, we may be unable to achieve the expected synergies from this alliance. If our strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley is terminated, it could have a material negative impact on our business strategy, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, because we conduct our securities operations in Japan through the joint venture companies we have with Morgan Stanley, such termination may result in our inability to attain the planned growth in this line of business. In addition, with our current investment in Morgan Stanley, we have neither a controlling interest in, nor control over the business operations of Morgan Stanley. If Morgan Stanley makes any business decisions that are inconsistent with our interests, we may be unable to achieve the goals initially set out for the strategic alliance. Furthermore, although we do not control Morgan Stanley, given the magnitude of our investment, if Morgan Stanley encounters financial or other business difficulties, we may suffer a financial loss on our investment or damage to our reputation. Because of a decline in the quoted market price of Morgan Stanley’s common stock that we determined to be other than temporary in light of the increasingly stringent regulatory environment and the existing adverse economic events in Europe, we recorded an impairment loss of ¥579.5 billion on our investment in Morgan Stanley’s common stock for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. 10 Table of Contents In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, Morgan Stanley became an equity-method affiliate in our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, Morgan Stanley’s performance will have a more significant impact on our results of operations as a result of equity method accounting. Further, fluctuations in Morgan Stanley’s stock price or in our equity ownership interest in Morgan Stanley may cause us to recognize additional losses on our investment in Morgan Stanley. For a detailed discussion of our strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments.” Because of our loans to consumers and our shareholdings in companies engaged in consumer lending, changes in the business or regulatory environment for consumer finance companies in Japan may further adversely affect our financial results. We have a large loan portfolio in the consumer lending industry as well as large shareholdings in subsidiaries and equity method investees in the consumer finance industry. Our domestic loans to consumers amount to approximately one-fifth of our total outstanding loans. Of this amount, the consumer loans provided by Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS, Co., Ltd., which is our primary consumer financing subsidiary, were ¥757.9 billion as of March 31, 2012, compared to ¥872.0 billion as of March 31, 2011. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS’s consumer loan portfolio has been adversely affected by a series of regulatory reforms recently implemented in Japan. The Japanese government implemented regulatory reforms affecting the consumer lending industry in recent years. In December 2006, the Diet passed legislation to reform the regulations relating to the consumer lending business, including amendments to the Law Concerning Acceptance of Investment, Cash Deposit and Interest Rate, etc., which, effective June 18, 2010, reduced the maximum permissible interest rate from 29.2% per annum to 20% per annum. The regulatory reforms also included amendments to the Law Concerning Lending Business, which, effective June 18, 2010, abolished the so-called “gray-zone interest.” Gray-zone interest refers to interest rates exceeding the limits stipulated by the Interest Rate Restriction Law (between 15% per annum to 20% per annum depending on the amount of principal). Prior to June 18, 2010, gray-zone interest was permitted under certain conditions set forth in the Law Concerning Lending Business. As a result of the regulatory reforms, all interest rates are now subject to the lower limits imposed by the Interest Rate Restriction Law, compelling lending institutions, including our consumer finance subsidiaries and equity method investees, to lower the interest rates they charge borrowers. The new regulations that became effective on June 18, 2010 also have had a further negative impact on the business of consumer finance companies as one of the new regulations requires, among other things, consumer finance companies to limit their lending to a single customer to a maximum of one third of the customer’s annual income regardless of the customer’s repayment capability, significantly affecting consumer financing companies. The new regulations and regulatory reforms affecting the consumer finance business were one of the main factors that contributed to the decrease in interest income attributable to our consumer finance business. Our interest income attributable to the consumer finance business was approximately ¥190 billion and ¥160 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. However, following the regulatory changes in June 2010, our interest income attributable to the consumer finance business decreased to approximately ¥130 billion and ¥120 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2012, respectively. In addition, as a result of decisions by the Supreme Court of Japan prior to June 18, 2010 imposing stringent requirements under the Law Concerning Lending Business for charging gray-zone interest rates, consumer finance companies have experienced a significant increase in borrowers’ claims for reimbursement of previously collected interest payments in excess of the limits stipulated by the Interest Rate Restriction Law. Following the various legal developments in June 2010 and other industry developments, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS revised its estimate by updating management’s future forecast to reflect new reimbursement claims information and other data. As of March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we had ¥84.2 billion, ¥136.9 billion and ¥99.4 billion of allowance for repayment of excess interest, respectively. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 11 Table of Contents 2011 and 2012, we recorded provisions for repayment of excess interest of ¥44.8 billion, ¥85.7 billion and nil, respectively. For the same periods, one of our equity method investees engaged in consumer lending, ACOM CO., LTD., had a negative impact of ¥23.1 billion, ¥96.4 billion and ¥19.3 billion, respectively, on Equity in losses of equity method investees—net in our consolidated statements of income. We intend to carefully monitor future developments and trends. These developments have adversely affected, and these and any future developments may further adversely affect, the operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries, equity method investees and borrowers which are engaged in consumer lending, which in turn may affect the value of our related shareholdings and loan portfolio. In particular, in March 2011, we made a capital contribution of approximately ¥85.0 billion to Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the value of our bond portfolio. The aggregate carrying amount of the Japanese government and corporate bonds and foreign bonds, including US Treasury bonds, that we hold has increased in recent fiscal years to 24.8% of our total assets as of March 31, 2012. In particular, the Japanese national government and Japanese government agency bonds accounted for 23.0% of our total assets as of March 31, 2012. For a detailed discussion of our bond portfolio, see “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” The Bank of Japan has been maintaining a very low policy rate (uncollateralized overnight call rate) of 0.10% in an effort to lift the economy out of deflation. Short-term interest rates continue to decline because of the Bank of Japan’s so-called “monetary easing policy.” Central bank’s policies, however, may change, resulting in an interest rate increase. Separate from the central bank monetary policies, interest rates on the Japanese national government and Japanese government agency bonds could also significantly increase if there is a disruption in the market for Japanese national government bonds caused by shifts in investor attitude, fluctuations in other comparable debt instruments or adverse changes in the perception of Japan’s sovereign risk. An increase in relevant interest rates, particularly if such increase is unexpected or sudden, may have a significant negative effect on the value of our bond portfolio. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Business Environment.” Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may result in transaction losses on translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as well as foreign currency translation losses with respect to our foreign subsidiaries and equity method investees. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the Japanese yen create transaction gains or losses on the translation into Japanese yen of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent that our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities are not matched in the same currency or appropriately hedged, we could incur losses due to future foreign exchange rate fluctuations. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, the average balance of our foreign interest-earning assets was ¥53.3 trillion and the average balance of our foreign interest-bearing liabilities was ¥34.5 trillion, representing 29.0% of our average total interest-earning assets and 20.9% of our average total interest-bearing liabilities during the same period. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, net foreign exchange gains, which primarily include transaction gains on the translation into Japanese yen of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and net gains on currency derivatives instruments entered into for trading purposes, were ¥34.3 billion, compared to net foreign exchange gains of ¥260.7 billion for the previous fiscal year. In addition, we may incur foreign currency translation losses with respect to our foreign subsidiaries and equity method investees due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The average exchange rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was ¥79.08 per US$1.00, compared to the average exchange rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 of ¥85.72 per US$1.00. The change in the average exchange rate of the Japanese yen against the US dollar and other foreign currencies had the effect of decreasing total revenue by ¥100.8 billion, net interest income by ¥55.0 billion and income before income tax expense by ¥45.6 billion, respectively, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 12 Table of Contents 2012. For more information on foreign exchange gains and losses and foreign currency translation gains and losses, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Results of Operations” and “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Effect of Change in Exchange Rates on Foreign Currency Translation.” Any adverse changes in the business of Union Bank, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary in the United States, could significantly affect our results of operations. Union Bank, N.A., or Union Bank, is the primary subsidiary of UnionBanCal Corporation, or UNBC, which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary in the United States. Union Bank has historically contributed to a significant portion of our net income. UNBC reported net loss of $65 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, net income of $573 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, and net income of $778 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Any adverse developments which could arise at Union Bank may have a significant negative impact on our results of operation and financial condition. The risks relating to Union Bank have increased as Union Bank has been expanding its business through acquisitions of community banks within the United States. In April 2010, Union Bank acquired approximately $600 million in total assets and assumed more than $400 million in deposits of Tamalpais Bank, a California-based bank, and acquired approximately $3.2 billion in total assets and assumed approximately $2.5 billion in deposits of Frontier Bank, a Washington-based bank, pursuant to its respective purchase and assumption agreements with the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In March 2012, UNBC entered into a definitive agreement to acquire approximately $5.9 billion in assets and assume approximately $4.6 billion in deposits of Pacific Capital Bancorp, a bank holding company headquartered in California. In May 2012, Union Bank signed a definitive agreement to acquire Smartstreet, an Atlanta-based financial services division of PNC Bank, N.A., with approximately $1 billion in deposits and comprehensive receivables offering and lockbox operations. If Union Bank is unable to achieve the benefits expected from its business strategies, including its business expansion strategy through acquisitions of community banks, we may suffer an adverse financial impact. Other factors that have negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, Union Bank’s results of operations include adverse economic conditions, such as a downturn in the real estate and housing industries in California and other states within the United States, substantial competition in the banking markets in California and other states within the United States and uncertainty over the US economy, as well as the threat of terrorist attacks, fluctuating oil prices, rising interest rates, negative trends in debt ratings, additional costs which may arise from enterprise-wide compliance, or failure to comply, with applicable laws and regulations, such as the US Bank Secrecy Act and related amendments under the USA PATRIOT Act, and any adverse impact of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act. We may incur further losses as a result of financial difficulties relating to other financial institutions, both directly and through the effect they may have on the overall banking environment and on their borrowers. Some domestic and foreign financial institutions, including banks, non-bank lending and credit institutions, securities companies and insurance companies, have experienced declining asset quality and capital adequacy and other financial problems. This may lead to severe liquidity and solvency problems, which have in the past resulted in the liquidation, government control or restructuring of affected institutions. In addition, allegations or governmental prosecution of improper trading activities or inappropriate business conduct of a specific financial institution could also negatively affect the public perception of other global financial institutions individually and the global financial industry as a whole. These developments may adversely affect our financial results. Financial difficulties relating to financial institutions could adversely affect us because we have extended loans, some of which may need to be classified as nonaccrual and restructured loans, to banks, securities companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries. Our loans to banks and other financial institutions have been more than 5% of our total loans as of each year-end in 13 Table of Contents the three fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, with the percentage increasing from 8.0% to 8.9% between March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012. We may also be adversely affected because we are a shareholder of some other banks and financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries, including our shareholdings in Japanese regional banks and our 21.8% voting interest in Morgan Stanley as of March 31, 2012. If some of the financial institutions to which we have exposure, experience financial difficulties, we may need to provide financial support to them even when such support might not be warranted from the perspective of our narrow economic interests because such institutions may be systematically important to the Japanese or global financial system. We may also be adversely affected because we enter into transactions, such as derivative transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other banks and financial institutions as counterparties. For example, we enter into credit derivatives with banks, broker-dealers, insurance and other financial institutions for managing credit risk exposures, for facilitating client transactions, and for proprietary trading purpose. The notional amount of the protection we sold through these instruments was ¥3.3 trillion as of March 31, 2012. In addition, financial difficulties relating to financial institutions could indirectly have an adverse effect on us because: Ÿ we may be requested to participate in providing assistance to support distressed financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; Ÿ the government may elect to provide regulatory, tax, funding or other benefits to those financial institutions to strengthen their capital, facilitate their sale or otherwise, which in turn may increase their competitiveness against us; Ÿ deposit insurance premiums could rise if deposit insurance funds prove to be inadequate; Ÿ bankruptcies or government support or control of financial institutions could generally undermine confidence in financial institutions or adversely affect the overall banking environment; Ÿ failures or financial difficulties experienced by other financial institutions could result in additional regulations or requirements that increase the cost of business for us; and Ÿ negative media coverage of the financial industry, regardless of its accuracy and applicability to us, could affect customer or investor sentiment, harm our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our business or the price of our securities. Our strategy to expand the range of our financial products and services and the geographic scope of our business globally may fail if we are unable to anticipate or manage new or expanded risks that entail such expansion. We continue to seek opportunities to expand the range of our products and services beyond our traditional banking and trust businesses, through development and introduction of new products and services or through acquisitions of or investments in financial institutions with products and services that complement our business. For example, taking advantage of our financial holding company status which enables us to underwrite securities, we are currently seeking to expand our corporate banking operations in the United States. In addition, the sophistication of financial products and management systems has been growing significantly in recent years. As a result, we are exposed to new and increasingly complex risks. Some of the activities that our subsidiaries are expected to engage in, such as derivatives and foreign currency trading, present substantial risks. In some cases, we have only limited experience with the risks related to the expanded range of these products and services. In addition, we may not be able to successfully develop or operate the necessary information systems. As a result, we may not be able to foresee the risks relating to new products and services. As we expand the geographic scope of our business, we will also be exposed to risks that are unique to particular jurisdictions or markets. Our risk management systems may prove to be inadequate and may not work in all cases or to the degree required. The substantial market, credit, compliance and regulatory risks in relation to the expanding scope of our products, services and trading activities or expanding our business beyond our traditional markets, could result in us 14 Table of Contents incurring substantial losses. In addition, our efforts to offer new services and products or penetrate new markets may not succeed if product or market opportunities develop more slowly than expected, if our new services or products are not well accepted among customers, or if the profitability of opportunities is undermined by competitive pressures. For a detailed discussion of our risk management systems, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk.” Unanticipated economic changes in, and measures taken in response to such changes by, emerging market countries could result in additional losses. We are increasingly active, through a network of branches and subsidiaries, in emerging market countries, particularly countries in Asia, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, and the Middle East. For example, based principally on the domicile of the obligors, assets related to Asia and Oceania excluding Japan increased 13.8% from ¥10.91 trillion as of March 31, 2011 to ¥12.41 trillion as of March 31, 2012, accounting for 5.8% of our total assets as of March 31, 2012. The economies of emerging market countries can be volatile and susceptible to adverse changes and trends in the global financial markets. For example, a decline in the value of local currencies of these countries could negatively affect the creditworthiness of some of our borrowers in these countries. The loans we have made to borrowers and banks in these countries are often denominated in US dollars, Euro or other foreign currencies. These borrowers often do not hedge the loans to protect against fluctuations in the values of local currencies. A devaluation of the local currency would make it more difficult for a borrower earning income in that currency to pay its debts to us and other foreign lenders. In addition, some countries in which we operate may attempt to support the value of their currencies by raising domestic interest rates. If this happens, the borrowers in these countries would have to devote more of their resources to repaying their domestic obligations, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their debts to us and other foreign lenders. The limited credit availability resulting from these conditions may adversely affect economic conditions in some countries. This could cause a further deterioration of the credit quality of borrowers and banks in those countries and cause us to incur further losses. In addition, should there be excessively rapid economic growth and increasing inflationary pressure in some of the emerging market countries, such developments could adversely affect the wider regional and global economies. Some emerging market countries may also change their monetary or other economic policies in response to economic and political instabilities or pressures, which are difficult to predict. As of March 31, 2012, based on the domicile of the obligors, our assets in Europe, Asia and Oceania excluding Japan, and other areas excluding Japan and the United States, were ¥18.62 trillion, ¥12.41 trillion and ¥7.01 trillion, representing 8.7%, 5.8% and 3.3% of our total assets, respectively. See “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition.” Our business may be adversely affected by competitive pressures, which have partly increased due to regulatory changes and recent market changes in the financial industry domestically and globally. In recent years, the Japanese financial system has been undergoing significant changes and regulatory barriers to competition have been reduced. In particular, any further reform of the Japanese postal savings system, under which the Japan Post Group companies, including Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd., were established in October 2007, could substantially increase competition within the financial services industry as Japan Post Bank, with the largest deposit base and branch network in Japan, may begin to offer financial services in competition with our business operations generating fee income. In May 2012, amendments to the postal privatization law became effective under which Japan Post Bank and Japan Post Insurance may enter into new businesses upon obtaining government approvals, and if the government’s equity holdings decrease to a certain level, the two companies will be allowed to enter into new businesses upon submission of a notice to the government. As a result, the Japan Post Group companies may seek to enter into new businesses, including sales of various types of insurance and housing loans. The privatization of the Japan Post Group companies remains subject to political negotiations and government action. In addition, there has been significant consolidation and convergence among financial institutions domestically and globally, and this trend may continue in the future and further increase competition in the market. A number of large commercial banks and other broad-based financial services firms have merged or formed strategic alliances with, or have acquired, other financial institutions both in Japan and 15 Table of Contents overseas. As a result of the strategic alliance and the joint venture companies that we formed with Morgan Stanley, we may be newly perceived as a competitor by some of the financial institutions with which we had a more cooperative relationship in the past. If we are unable to compete effectively in this more competitive and deregulated business environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. For a more detailed discussion of our competition in Japan, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition—Japan.” Regulatory matters and any future regulatory matters or regulatory changes could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. As a global financial services provider, our business is subject to increasing regulations and associated regulatory risks, as well as ongoing changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and interpretations in Japan and other markets where we operate. We may not be able to improve our compliance risk management systems and programs in a timely manner, and our risk management systems and programs may not be fully effective in preventing all violations of laws, regulations and rules. Major global financial institutions currently face heightened regulatory scrutiny as a result of the concerns enveloping the global financial sector, and there is growing political pressure to demand even greater regulatory surveillance following several high-profile scandals and risk management failures in the financial industry. Because of our transactions or relationships with other global financial institutions or our activity or participation in the global financial market, we may become subject to various regulatory actions and other legal proceedings arising from such role. Our failure or inability to comply fully with applicable laws and regulations could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to reputation, civil liability, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorization to operate, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Regulatory matters may also adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for future strategic initiatives. Furthermore, failure to take necessary corrective action, or the discovery of violations of laws in the process of further review of any of the matters mentioned above or in the process of implementing any corrective measures, could result in further regulatory action. We could also be required to incur significant expenses to comply with new or revised regulations. For example, if we adopt a new information system infrastructure in the future, we may be required to incur significant additional costs for establishing and implementing effective internal controls, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future developments or changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and their effects are expected to require greater capital resources and significant management attention, and may require us to modify our business strategies and plans. For example, the regulations relating to the consumer lending business which became effective in June 2010 impose, among other things, a limit on the amount of loans available to individual borrowers, which have negatively affected our profitability. For more information on regulatory changes in the consumer finance industry, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—Because of our loans to consumers and our shareholdings in companies engaged in consumer lending, changes in the business or regulatory environment for consumer finance companies in Japan may further adversely affect our financial results.” Furthermore, regulatory reforms recently implemented, proposed and currently being debated in the United States may also significantly affect our business operations. For example, the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act generally known as the “Volcker Rule” are designed to restrict banking entities’ proprietary trading and private fund investment activities. The Volcker Rule is subject to final rule-making and interpretation, including with respect to the scope of its applicability to activities outside of the United States, and the impact of the rule on our business operations remain uncertain. The Volcker Rule and other reform measures may ultimately be implemented in a manner that requires us to materially alter our business model or incur significant costs or losses. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—United States.” 16 Table of Contents Future changes in accounting standards could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Future developments or changes in accounting standards are unpredictable and beyond our control. For example, Japanese and other international organizations that set accounting standards have released revisions to accounting standards applicable to retirement benefit obligations. In May 2012, the Accounting Standards Board of Japan published revised accounting standards that will require companies preparing their financial statements in accordance with Japanese GAAP to record as liabilities on balance sheets actuarial losses and unrecognized past service cost, which are currently not recorded as liabilities on balance sheets. Most of the revised accounting standards will be effective for the annual reporting period beginning on or after April 1, 2013. The revised accounting standards could have a negative impact on our capital ratios since we calculate our capital ratios in accordance with Japanese banking regulations based on information derived from our financial statements prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP. For more information, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—We may not be able to maintain our capital ratios above minimum required levels, which could result in the suspension of some or all of our operations.” In addition, in response to the recent instabilities in global financial markets, several international organizations which set accounting standards have released proposals to revise standards on accounting for financial instruments. Accounting standards applicable to financial instruments remain subject to debate and revision by international organizations which set accounting standards. If the current accounting standards change in the future, the reported values of some of our financial instruments may need to be modified, and such modification could have a significant impact on our financial results or financial condition. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” We could also be required to incur significant expenses to comply with new accounting standards and regulations. For example, if we adopt a new accounting system in the future, we may be required to incur significant additional costs for establishing and implementing effective internal controls, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Transactions with counterparties in countries designated by the US Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and investors in the United States and other countries to avoid doing business with us or investing in our shares. We, through our banking subsidiaries, engage in business activities with entities in or affiliated with Iran, including transactions with counterparties owned or controlled by the Iranian government, and our banking subsidiary has a representative office in Iran. The US Department of State has designated Iran and other countries as “state sponsors of terrorism,” and US law generally prohibits US persons from doing business with such countries. We currently have business activities with entities in or affiliated with such countries in accordance with our policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We have loan transactions with counterparties in or affiliated with Iran, the outstanding balance of which was approximately $8.0 million, representing less than 0.001% of our total assets, as of March 31, 2012. We do not have any loans outstanding to the financial institutions specifically listed by the US government. In addition to such loan transactions, our other transactions with counterparties in or affiliated with countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism consist of receiving deposits or holding assets on behalf of individuals residing in Japan who are citizens of countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism, and processing payments to or from entities in or affiliated with these countries on behalf of our customers that may be engaged in transactions or other relationships with such entities. We do not believe these transactions have a material impact on our business or financial condition. We are aware of initiatives by US governmental entities and non-government entities, including institutional investors such as pension funds, to adopt or consider adopting laws, regulations or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with Iran and other 17 Table of Contents countries identified as state sponsors of terrorism. It is possible that such initiatives may result in our being unable to gain or retain entities subject to such prohibitions as customers, counter-parties or investors in our shares. In addition, depending on socio-political developments, our reputation may suffer due to our transactions with counterparties in or affiliated with these countries. The above circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The US federal government and some state governments in the United States have enacted legislation designed to limit economic and financial transactions with Iran by limiting the ability of financial institutions that may have engaged in any one of a broad range of activities related to Iran to conduct various transactions in the relevant jurisdictions. The Japanese government has also implemented a series of measures under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act, such as freezing the assets of designated financial institutions and others that could contribute to Iran’s nuclear activities, and our most recently modified policies and procedures take into account the new Japanese regulatory requirements. There remains a risk of potential US regulatory action against us, however, if US regulators perceive the modified policies and procedures not to be in compliance with applicable regulations. We may not be able to maintain our capital ratios above minimum required levels, which could result in the suspension of some or all of our operations. We, as a holding company, and our Japanese banking subsidiaries are required to maintain risk-weighted capital ratios above the levels specified in the capital adequacy guidelines of the Financial Services Agency of Japan. As of March 31, 2012, our total risk-adjusted capital ratio was 14.91% compared to the minimum risk-adjusted capital ratio required of 8.00%, and our Tier I capital ratio was 12.31% compared to the minimum Tier I capital ratio required of 4.00%. Our capital ratios are calculated in accordance with Japanese banking regulations based on information derived from our financial statements prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP. In addition, some of our subsidiaries are also subject to the capital adequacy rules of various foreign countries, including the United States where each of MUFG, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., or BTMU, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, or MUTB and UNBC is a financial holding company under the US Bank Holding Company Act. We or our banking subsidiaries may be unable to continue to satisfy the capital adequacy requirements because of: Ÿ increases in credit risk assets and expected losses we or our subsidiaries may incur due to fluctuations in our or our subsidiaries’ loan and securities portfolios as a result of deteriorations in the credit of our borrowers and the issuers of equity and debt securities; Ÿ increases in credit costs we or our subsidiaries may incur as we or our subsidiaries dispose of problem loans or as a result of deteriorations in the credit of our borrowers; Ÿ declines in the value of our or our subsidiaries’ securities portfolio; Ÿ changes in the capital ratio requirements or in the guidelines regarding the calculation of bank holding companies’ or banks’ capital ratios or changes in the regulatory capital requirements for securities firms; Ÿ a reduction in the value of our or our subsidiaries’ deferred tax assets; Ÿ adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; or Ÿ other adverse developments discussed in these risk factors. The Group of Central Bank Governors and Heads of Supervision has made a series of announcements regarding the new global regulatory framework, which has been referred to as “Basel III,” to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector. Various Basel III measures are expected to be introduced in phases starting in calendar 2013, including those designed to raise the level of minimum capital requirements and to establish an internationally harmonized leverage ratio and a global minimum liquidity standard. In addition, in July 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision proposed additional loss absorbency requirements to supplement the common equity Tier I capital requirement ranging from 1% to 2.5% for global systemically important banks, depending on the bank’s systemic importance, to be introduced in 18 Table of Contents phases starting in calendar 2016. In November 2011, the Financial Stability Board tentatively identified us as a globally systemically important financial institution, or G-SIFI. Based on the Basel III framework, the Japanese capital ratio framework, which is currently based on Basel II, has been revised to implement the more stringent requirements, which will be effective as of March 31, 2013. Likewise, local banking regulators outside of Japan, such as those in the United States, are expected to revise the capital and liquidity requirements imposed on our subsidiaries and operations in those countries to implement the more stringent requirements of Basel III as adopted in those countries. If our capital ratios fall below required levels, the Financial Services Agency of Japan could require us to take a variety of corrective actions, including withdrawal from all international operations or suspension of all or part of our business operations. In addition, if the capital ratios of our subsidiaries subject to capital adequacy rules of foreign jurisdictions fall below the required levels, the local regulators could also take action against them that may result in reputational damage or financial losses to us. Since maintaining our capital ratios at acceptable levels is crucial to our business, our management devotes a significant amount of attention and resources to capital ratio related issues and may also significantly alter our business strategy or operations if our capital ratios decline to unacceptable levels. For a discussion of our capital ratios and the related regulatory guidelines, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation” and “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy.” If the goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisitions becomes impaired, we may be required to record impairment losses, which may adversely affect our financial results and the price of our securities. In accordance with US GAAP, we account for our business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting. We recorded the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies as goodwill. US GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. As of March 31, 2012, the balance of goodwill was ¥354.3 billion. We may be required to record additional impairment losses relating to goodwill in future periods if the fair value of any of our reporting units declines below the fair value of related assets net of liabilities. Any additional impairment losses will negatively affect our financial results, and the price of our securities could be adversely affected. For a detailed discussion of our periodic testing of goodwill for impairment and the goodwill recorded, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates—Accounting for Goodwill and Intangible Assets.” A further downgrade of our credit ratings could trigger additional collateral obligations under our derivative contracts and increase our funding costs. In August 2011, Moody’s announced that it downgraded the long-term credit ratings of BTMU and MUTB by one-notch from Aa2 to Aa3, and the long-term credit rating of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holding Co., Ltd, or MUSHD, by one-notch from A1 to A2. On July 20, 2012, Fitch downgraded the ratings assigned to BTMU and MUTB by one-notch from A to A-. A further credit rating downgrade by Moody’s, Fitch, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services LLC or any other credit rating agency may have an adverse impact on us. Substantially all of the derivative contracts with collateral obligations entered into by BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD are subject to a Credit Support Annex, or CSA, as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., or ISDA. Following the downgrades by Moody’s in August 2011, some of our existing CSAs were modified to require, and some of the new CSAs that we entered into required, additional collateral at lower thresholds. The downgrades by Fitch on July 20, 2012 may result in additional modifications in the future. Assuming all of the relevant credit rating agencies downgraded the credit ratings of BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD by one-notch on March 31, 2012, we estimate that our three main subsidiaries under their derivative contracts as of the same date, would have been required to provide additional collateral of approximately ¥9.6 billion. Assuming a two-notch downgrade by all of the relevant credit rating agencies occurred on the same 19 Table of Contents date, we estimate that the additional collateral requirements for BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD under their derivative contracts as of the same date would have been approximately ¥17.0 billion. In addition, a further downgrade of the credit ratings of our major subsidiaries could result in higher funding costs. For additional information on the impact of recent downgrades, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Sources of Funding and Liquidity.” Risks Related to Owning Our Shares It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors, corporate auditors or other management members, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in US courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the US federal or state securities laws. We are a joint stock company incorporated under the laws of Japan. Almost all of our directors, corporate auditors or other management members reside outside the United States. Many of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for US investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce, against us or these persons, judgments obtained in the US courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the US federal or state securities laws. We believe there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions brought in Japanese courts to enforce judgments of US courts, of claims predicated solely upon the US federal or state securities laws mainly because the Civil Execution Act of Japan requires Japanese courts to deny requests for the enforcement of judgments of foreign courts if foreign judgments fail to satisfy the requirements prescribed by the Civil Execution Act, including: Ÿ the jurisdiction of the foreign court be recognized under laws, regulations, treaties or conventions; Ÿ proper service of process be made on relevant defendants, or relevant defendants be given appropriate protection if such service is not received; Ÿ the judgment and proceedings of the foreign court not be repugnant to public policy as applied in Japan; and Ÿ there exist reciprocity as to the recognition by a court of the relevant foreign jurisdiction of a final judgment of a Japanese court. Judgments obtained in the US courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the US federal or state securities laws may not satisfy these requirements. Risks Related to Owning Our ADSs As a holder of ADSs, you have fewer rights than a shareholder of record in our shareholder register since you must act through the depositary to exercise these rights. The rights of our shareholders under Japanese law to take actions such as voting, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian, is the record holder of the shares underlying the American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, only the depositary can exercise shareholder rights relating to the deposited shares. ADS holders, in their capacity, will not be able to directly bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records and exercise appraisal rights. We have appointed The Bank of New York Mellon as depositary, and we have the authority to replace the depositary. Pursuant to the deposit agreement among us, the depositary and a holder of ADSs, the depositary will make efforts to exercise voting or any other rights associated with shares underlying ADSs in accordance with the instructions given by ADS holders, and to pay to ADS holders dividends and distributions collected from us. However, the depositary can exercise reasonable discretion in carrying out the instructions or making distributions, and is not liable for failure to do so as long as it has acted in good faith. Therefore, ADS holders may not be able to exercise voting or any other rights in the manner that they had intended, or may lose some or 20 Table of Contents all of the value of the dividends or the distributions. Moreover, the depositary agreement that governs the obligations of the depositary may be amended or terminated by us and the depositary without your consent, notice, or any reason. As a result, you may be prevented from having the rights in connection with the deposited shares exercised in the way you had wished or at all. ADS holders are dependent on the depositary to receive our communications. We send to the depositary all of our communications to ADS holders, including annual reports, notices and voting materials, in Japanese. ADS holders may not receive all of our communications with shareholders of record in our shareholder register in the same manner or on an equal basis. In addition, ADS holders may not be able to exercise their rights as ADS holders due to delays in the depositary transmitting our shareholder communications to ADS holders. For a detailed discussion of the rights of ADS holders and the terms of the deposit agreement, see “Item 10.B. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 