D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk” and “Selected Statistical Data.” Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these factors. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business We may have difficulty integrating our business and operations with those of the UFJ group, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. We plan to merge with UFJ Holdings, Inc., or UFJ Holdings, and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our merger with UFJ Holdings will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Risks to the successful completion of the merger include: • potential disruptions of our ongoing business and the distraction of our management; • additional delays or other difficulties in integrating the domestic and overseas branch and subsidiary networks, head office functions, information and management systems, personnel and customer base of 7 Table of Contents the two groups, which may prevent us from enhancing the convenience and efficiency of our branch and subsidiary network and operational systems as planned; • impairment of relationships with customers, employees and strategic partners; • additional credit-related expenses or losses that may be incurred as uniform accounting policies and policies for establishing allowances are applied to the asset and loan portfolio of the two groups; • unanticipated asset-quality problems in UFJ Holdings’ asset portfolio that may cause significant losses on write-downs or require additional allowances to be established; and • unanticipated expenses in connection with litigation related to the merger. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with the merger. We recently decided to postpone the planned merger between Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi and UFJ Bank Limited, or UFJ Bank, to January 1, 2006. The postponement was undertaken to enable additional testing of the two banks’ systems intended to minimize risks arising from the merger. The postponement may also lead to future changes in our plan to complete all systems integration group-wide by March 31, 2007. Significant or unexpected costs may be incurred during the integration process, preventing us from achieving the targeted cost reductions from the business integration as scheduled or at all. If we are unable to resolve smoothly the problems that arise in the integration process between us and the UFJ group, our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. For additional information on the planned merger with UFJ Holdings, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments—Management Integration of Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group and the UFJ Group—Effect of the Merger.” We may have difficulty achieving the benefits expected from the merger, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to realize the growth opportunities and other expected benefits of the merger will depend in part on the successful integration of the domestic and overseas branch and subsidiary network, head office functions, information and management systems, personnel and customer base and other resources and aspects of our and the UFJ group’s holding companies, banks, trust banks and securities companies. To realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, we must implement a business plan that will effectively combine two operations that are diverse in terms of their respective products, services, customer segments and geographic scope, as well as management systems. Achieving the targeted cost savings is dependent on the successful implementation of the integration plan. We expect to incur annual integration-related expenses in implementing the integration plan and, for the first two years after the merger, these integration-related expenses are expected to exceed the targeted cost savings. These integration-related expenses may continue to exceed cost savings beyond that period. The primary challenges involved in achieving the benefits of the merger include: • retaining the existing customers and strategic partners of each company; • integrating our management, key employees and other personnel with that of the UFJ group; • coordinating and consolidating the functions of our domestic and overseas branch offices with those of the UFJ group; • identifying and streamlining redundant operations and assets; • combining customer products and services effectively and quickly; • transitioning relevant operations and facilities smoothly to a common information technology system; and • developing and implementing uniform accounting and reserve policies, internal controls, disclosure policies and procedures and other standards. 8 Table of Contents Estimates of targeted cost savings and other synergies in connection with the merger are inherently uncertain, and we may fail to achieve these targeted cost savings and other synergies as scheduled or at all. We and UFJ Holdings have announced that the two groups will seek to realize cost savings through the merger, but that annual integration-related costs within the first two years after the merger are expected to exceed cost synergies during that period. In addition, we and UFJ Holdings announced that we will report for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006 a significant amount of extraordinary charges under Japanese GAAP, a majority of which are non-cash items. Our targeted cost-savings are based on a number of assumptions, including that we will be able to implement necessary cost-saving measures such as the consolidation of overlapping products, services, branch offices and head office functions. In addition, these cost-savings targets assume that we will be able to integrate the operations, systems and personnel of the two institutions efficiently and as scheduled. Some of these assumptions may no longer be accurate due to passage of time or subsequent material changes in circumstances. For example, system integration and related costs may increase from our previous expectations due to the postponement of the merger between Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi and UFJ Bank. Additional delays or other difficulties in integrating the systems of the two banks may result in additional costs or cause delays in achieving the targeted cost savings and other merger synergies. If we fail to achieve the targeted cost savings from the merger, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Although we also expect revenue synergies to yield increases in gross revenue, a decrease in revenue is expected for the first one to two years following the merger due to adjustments in loan exposures to certain borrowers. Revenue synergies are dependent on the successful implementation of our business strategy. If the revenue synergies do not materialize in the expected time period, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Significant costs will be incurred in the course of and as a result of the merger. We and UFJ Holdings expect to incur significant costs related to the merger. We will incur, for the first few years following the merger, significant expenses to close overlapping branches and subsidiaries and to integrate IT systems and other operations. Transaction-related expenses include financial advisory, legal and accounting fees and expenses, severance/employee benefit-related expenses, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. Additionally, we and UFJ Holdings may also incur significant costs in compensating creditors with creditor protection rights. Additional litigation-related costs may also be incurred as a result of the civil suit brought by Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. against UFJ Holdings in October 2004, or any other litigation that may arise in connection with the merger. We and UFJ Holdings may also incur additional unanticipated expenses in connection with the merger and the integration of the operations, information systems, domestic and overseas branch office network and personnel of the two groups. The merger is subject to regulatory approvals and will be subject to various conditions set forth in the merger agreement and, even though the terms of the merger agreement have been approved by both sets of shareholders, the merger nonetheless may not be completed as scheduled or at all. The merger agreement provides that the respective obligations of us and UFJ Holdings to complete the merger are subject to a number of specified conditions, including the obtaining or satisfying of all regulatory approvals, permits, consents and requirements necessary for the consummation of the merger. Regulatory authorities in Japan or elsewhere may seek to block or delay the merger between the holding companies or the mergers between the key operating subsidiaries, or may impose conditions that reduce or delay the anticipated benefits of the merger or make it difficult to complete as planned. If there are any delays in or unexpected conditions to the merger, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we and UFJ Holdings have the right to terminate the merger agreement at any time, upon the parties’ mutual written consent. Either party may also terminate the merger agreement if an event occurs that results in any material change to our financial or economic condition or that of UFJ Holdings, or that materially interferes with the execution of the merger, upon mutual agreement following consultation. If the merger 9 Table of Contents agreement is terminated, we will not be able to achieve any of the anticipated integration benefits and our market reputation may be harmed. We may suffer additional losses in the future due to problem loans. We and the UFJ group have suffered from asset quality problems since the early 1990s. Despite our recent progress in reducing the level of our problem loans, UFJ Holdings continues to have a particularly concentrated exposure to large troubled borrowers and we will have a considerable amount of problem loans on our balance sheet at the time the merger is completed. A number of borrowers are still facing challenging circumstances, and our problem loans and credit-related expenses could increase if: • current restructuring plans of borrowers are not successfully implemented; • additional large borrowers become insolvent or must be restructured; • economic conditions in Japan deteriorate; • real estate prices in Japan continue to decline or stock prices in Japan decline; • the rate of corporate bankruptcies in Japan or elsewhere in the world rises; • additional economic problems arise elsewhere in the world; or • the global economic environment deteriorates generally. An increase in problem loans and credit-related expenses would adversely affect our results of operations, weaken our financial condition and erode our capital base. Credit losses may increase if we elect, or are forced by economic or other considerations, to sell or write off our problem loans at a larger discount, in a larger amount or in a different time or manner than we may otherwise want. For a discussion of our historical problem loans, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Allowance for Credit Losses, Nonperforming and Past Due Loans” and “Selected Statistical Data—Loan Portfolio.” Our allowance for credit losses may be insufficient to cover future loan losses. Our allowance for credit losses in our loan portfolios is based on evaluations, assumptions and estimates about customers, the value of collateral we hold and the economy as a whole. The allowance for credit losses in UFJ Holdings’ loan portfolio is also based on similar evaluations, assumptions and estimates. Our loan losses and those of UFJ Holdings could prove to be materially different from the estimates and could materially exceed these allowances. If actual loan losses are higher than currently expected, the current allowances for credit losses will be insufficient. We may incur credit losses or have to provide for additional allowance for credit losses if: • economic conditions, either generally or in particular industries in which large borrowers operate, deteriorate; • the standards for establishing allowances change, causing us to change some of the evaluations, assumptions and estimates used in determining the allowances; • the value of collateral we hold declines; or • we are adversely affected by other factors to an extent that is worse than anticipated. For a detailed discussion of our allowance policy and the historical trend of allowances for credit losses, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Critical Accounting Estimates—Allowance for Credit Losses” and “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Allowance for Credit Losses, Nonperforming and Past Due Loans.” 10 Table of Contents The credit quality of our loan portfolio may be adversely affected by the continuing financial difficulties facing some companies operating in the Japanese real estate, construction, trading, wholesale and retail, and automotive sectors. We and UFJ Holdings have large exposures to some borrowers in the Japanese real estate, construction, trading, wholesale and retail, and automotive sectors, and are thus exposed to the ongoing financial difficulties faced by some borrowers operating in those sectors. Some of the companies in these sectors to which we or UFJ Holdings have extended credit are exposed to ongoing financial difficulties and they may be in restructuring negotiations or considering whether to seek bankruptcy protection. If these companies are unsuccessful in their restructuring efforts due to continuing financial and operational difficulties or other factors, are otherwise forced to seek bankruptcy protection, or if other lenders discontinue or decrease their financial support to these companies for any reason, there may be further significant deterioration in the credit quality of our loan portfolio, which would expose us to further loan losses. For a detailed discussion of our exposure to these sectors, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Allowance for Credit Losses, Nonperforming and Past Due Loans” and “Selected Statistical Data—Loan Portfolio.” Our exposure to troubled borrowers may increase, and our recoveries from these borrowers may be lower than expected. We may provide additional loans, equity capital or other forms of support to troubled borrowers in order to facilitate their restructuring and revitalization efforts. We may forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against them, and we may forgive loans to them in conjunction with their debt restructuring. We may take these steps even when our legal rights might permit us to take stronger action against the borrower and even when others might take stronger action against the borrower to maximize recovery or to reduce exposure in the short term. We may provide support to troubled borrowers for various reasons, including any of the following reasons arising from Japan’s business environment and customs: • political or regulatory considerations; • reluctance to push a major client into default or bankruptcy or to disrupt a restructuring plan supported by other lenders; and • a perceived responsibility for the obligations of our affiliated and associated companies, as well as companies with which we or UFJ Holdings have historical links or other long-standing relationships. These practices may substantially increase our exposure to troubled borrowers and increase our losses. We may experience losses because our remedies for credit defaults by our borrowers are limited. We may not be able to realize the value of the collateral we hold or enforce our rights against defaulting customers because of: • the difficulty of foreclosing on collateral in Japan; • the illiquidity of and depressed values in the Japanese real estate market; and • the depressed values of pledged securities held as collateral. Our business may be adversely affected by negative developments with respect to other Japanese financial institutions, both directly and through the effect they may have on the overall Japanese banking environment and on their borrowers. Some Japanese financial institutions, including banks, non-bank lending and credit institutions, affiliates of securities companies and insurance companies, are still experiencing declining asset quality and capital adequacy 11 Table of Contents and other financial problems. This may lead to severe liquidity and solvency problems, which have in the past resulted in the liquidation, government control or restructuring of affected institutions. The continued financial difficulties of other financial institutions could adversely affect us because: • we and UFJ Holdings have extended loans, some of which are classified as nonaccrual and restructured loans, to banks and other financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; • we and UFJ Holdings are shareholders of some other banks and financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; • we and UFJ Holdings may be requested to participate in providing assistance to support distressed financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; • financial institutions may become majority owned or controlled by the Japanese government as a result of the government’s conversion, after the merger with UFJ Holdings, of our preferred stock into common stock or injection of additional public funds into financial institutions pursuant to the Deposit Insurance Law of Japan, such as the injection of public funds into Resona Bank, Ltd. and Ashikaga Bank, Ltd. in 2003, or other newly introduced frameworks for the injection of public funds into financial institutions; • if the government takes control of major financial institutions, we will become a direct competitor of government-controlled financial institutions and may be at a competitive disadvantage if the Japanese government provides regulatory, tax, funding or other benefits to those financial institutions to strengthen their capital, facilitate their sale or otherwise; • deposit insurance premiums could rise if deposit insurance funds prove to be inadequate; • repeated or large-scale bankruptcies or government support or control of financial institutions could generally undermine depositor confidence or adversely affect the overall banking environment; and • negative media coverage of the Japanese banking industry, regardless of its accuracy and applicability to us, could affect investor sentiment and have a materially adverse effect on our stock price. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect our financial results and the price of our common stock following the merger. In accordance with US GAAP, we will account for the merger using the purchase method of accounting. We will allocate the total purchase price to our assets and liabilities based on the proportionate share of the fair values of those assets and liabilities. We will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the identifiable intangible assets acquired in connection with the transaction. In addition, the excess of the purchase price over the fair values of UFJ Holdings’ assets and liabilities will be recorded as goodwill. If the recorded goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of goodwill. If the anticipated benefits of the merger are not achieved, our financial results and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Negative media coverage of the merger, as well as statements by parties with competing interests, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. The merger between us and UFJ Holdings has been the subject of extensive coverage by both Japanese and foreign media, and of statements by parties with competing interests. Some of this coverage and these statements are negative and pertain to a wide range of matters relating to the merger. Negative media coverage and statements about the merger, regardless of their veracity, may affect investor sentiment and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The resulting reputational harm from such negative media coverage and statements relating to the merger may also impact consumer perception, negatively affecting our business and results of operations. We may also be forced to devote considerable resources to address the impact of such media coverage and statements relating to the merger. 12 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties implementing effective internal controls. In order to operate as a global financial institution, it is essential for us to have effective internal controls, corporate compliance functions, and accounting systems to manage our assets and operations. Moreover, under the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will apply by reason of our status as an SEC reporting company, we will be required to establish internal control over our financial reporting and our management will be required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclose whether such internal control is effective. Our auditors must also conduct an audit to evaluate management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting, and then render an opinion on our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Designing and implementing an effective system of internal controls capable of monitoring and managing our business and operations represents a significant challenge for us. Particularly, UFJ Holdings has previously admitted, in response to administrative action from the Financial Services Agency, to failures in internal controls that led to inappropriate responses to Financial Services Agency inspections of UFJ Bank’s large borrower classifications, errors in the management of loans to small- and medium-sized borrowers and deficiencies in their system for monitoring and managing credit risk. The internal control framework to be implemented by us after the planned merger with UFJ Holdings will need to have the ability to identify and prevent similar occurrences on a group-wide basis. The design and implementation of internal controls may require significant management and human resources, and result in considerable costs. In addition, as a result of unanticipated issues arising after the merger, we may need to take a permitted scope limitation on our assessment of internal control over financial reporting, may report material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or may be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If such circumstances arise, it could adversely affect the market’s perception of us. We may be adversely affected if economic conditions in Japan worsen. Since the early 1990s, the Japanese economy has performed poorly due to a number of factors, including weak consumer spending and lower capital investment by Japanese companies, causing a large number of corporate bankruptcies and the failure of several major financial institutions. Although some economic indicators and stock prices have recently improved, if the economy weakens, then our earnings and credit quality may be adversely affected. For a discussion of Japan’s current economic environment, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Business Environment—Economic Environment in Japan.” Changes in interest rate policy, particularly unexpected or sudden increases in interest rates, could adversely affect the value of our bond portfolio, problem loans and results of operations. We and UFJ Holdings hold a significant amount of Japanese government bonds and foreign bonds, including U.S. Treasury bonds. An increase in relevant interest rates, particularly if such increase is unexpected or sudden, may negatively affect the value of the two groups’ bond portfolios and reduce the so called “spread,” which is the difference between the rate of interest earned and the rate of interest paid. In addition, an increase in relevant interest rates may increase our problem loans as some of our borrowers may not be able to meet the increased interest payment requirements, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. For a detailed discussion of our bond portfolio, see “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” Corporate credibility issues among our borrowers could increase our problem loans or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. During the past few years, high profile bankruptcy filings and reports of past accounting or disclosure irregularities, including fraud, in the United States, Japan and other countries have raised corporate credibility issues, particularly with respect to public companies. In response to these developments and regulatory responses to these developments in the United States, Japan and elsewhere, regulators, auditors and corporate managers 13 Table of Contents generally have begun to review financial statements more thoroughly and conservatively. As a result, additional accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues may be uncovered and bring about additional bankruptcy filings and regulatory action in the United States, Japan and elsewhere. Such developments could increase our credit costs if they directly involve our borrowers or indirectly affect our borrowers’ credit. We may not be able to maintain our capital ratios above minimum required levels, which could result in the suspension of some or all of our operations. We, as a holding company, and our Japanese subsidiary banks, are required to maintain risk-weighted capital ratios above the levels specified in the capital adequacy guidelines of the Financial Services Agency. The capital ratios are calculated in accordance with Japanese banking regulations based on information derived from the relevant entity’s financial statements prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP. Our subsidiaries in California, UnionBanCal Corporation and Union Bank of California, N.A., referred to collectively as UNBC, are subject to similar U.S. capital adequacy guidelines. We or our subsidiary banks may be unable to continue to satisfy the capital adequacy requirements because of: • credit costs we or our subsidiary banks may incur as we dispose of problem loans and remove impaired assets from our balance sheet; • credit costs we or our subsidiary banks may incur due to losses from a future deterioration in asset quality; • a reduction in the value of our or our subsidiary banks’ deferred tax assets; • changes in accounting rules or in the guidelines regarding the calculation of bank holding companies’ or banks’ capital ratios; • declines in the value of our or our subsidiary banks’ securities portfolio; • the inability of us or our subsidiary banks to refinance subordinated debt obligations with equally subordinated debt; • adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • other adverse developments discussed in these risk factors. If our capital ratios fall below required levels, the Financial Services Agency could require us to take a variety of corrective actions, including withdrawal from all international operations or suspension of all or part of our business operations. For a discussion of our capital ratios and the related regulatory guidelines, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—Japan—Capital Adequacy” and “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy.” Our capital ratios may also be negatively affected by contemplated or recently adopted regulatory changes. Several proposed regulatory changes could have an adverse impact on our capital ratios. In particular, the Financial System Council of the Financial Services Agency is discussing the adoption of rules that limit the amount of deferred tax assets that may be included in the calculation of Tier I or total regulatory capital. The imposition of any such limits would likely reduce our regulatory capital, perhaps materially. As of March 31, 2005, • Our net deferred tax assets amounted to ¥428.3 billion under Japanese GAAP, or approximately 10.0% of the amount of our Tier I capital of ¥4,286.8 billion calculated in accordance with Japanese GAAP as required by the Financial Services Agency, and • UFJ Holdings’ net deferred tax assets amounted to ¥1,093.6 billion under Japanese GAAP, or approximately 47.3% of the amount of our Tier I capital of ¥2,313.5 billion calculated in accordance with Japanese GAAP as required by the Financial Services Agency. 14 Table of Contents In addition, effective March 31, 2003, the Financial Services Agency strongly suggested that major banks calculate loan loss reserves for certain impaired loans by analyzing the projected cash flows from those loan assets, discounted to present value, instead of basing reserves on historical loan loss data. We employ a methodology to calculate loan loss reserves for these credits based on their estimated cash flows. However, if in the future the Financial Services Agency adopts a calculation methodology that is different from the methodology we employ, the size of our allowance for loan losses under Japanese GAAP could increase. Because capital ratios are calculated under Japanese GAAP, this change may materially reduce our capital ratios. Further regulatory changes are expected based on the new framework relating to regulatory capital requirements that were established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and endorsed by the central bank governors and the heads of bank supervisory authorities of the Group of Ten (G10) countries in June 2004. The Financial Services Agency is expected to issue revised rules for the new capital adequacy framework around the end of 2005, which will become effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007. We may fail to meet the operating targets in the restructuring plan we will submit to the Financial Services Agency, which could subject us to administrative actions, the replacement of senior management, the conversion of preferred shares held by the Resolution and Collection Corporation and other adverse actions. UFJ Holdings is a recipient of public funds from the Resolution and Collection Corporation, a Japanese government entity. The public funds were injected in the form of a preferred stock investment, and this preferred stock will be exchanged as part of the merger for newly issued preferred stock of the surviving entity. As a result, we will be required to prepare and submit a restructuring plan to the Financial Services Agency, and to periodically update such restructuring plan. Material failure to achieve the operating targets outlined in the restructuring plan could result in the following: • we or our affiliates may be subject to administrative action from the Financial Services Agency; • the Financial Services Agency may take steps to replace our senior management or that of our bank subsidiaries; or • the Resolution and Collection Corporation may convert the preferred stock we issued as part of the merger, which may make the Japanese government our largest shareholder. In addition, the Financial Services Agency, the Resolution and Collection Corporation or other governmental agencies could take other actions, as a regulator or shareholder, that are designed to protect the interests of depositors or the Japanese government’s investment but may be materially adverse to the interests of other investors in our shares. The Japanese government could become a significant shareholder. After our merger with UFJ Holdings, the Resolution and Collection Corporation will hold preferred shares that do not have voting rights but are convertible into 12.6% of our common shares. If the preferred shares are converted into common shares, the Japanese government could hold a substantial interest in us. On April 4, 2003, the Financial Services Agency issued guidelines concerning when the Japanese government may convert the preferred shares of banks or bank holding companies that it owns into common shares. Among the conditions under which the Japanese government may convert its preferred shares under those guidelines is the non-payment of dividends on those preferred shares for two consecutive fiscal years, or non-payment for one fiscal year and only a partial payment of preferred dividends for the second fiscal year. If we are unable to pay the necessary amount of dividends on our preferred shares for any reason, the Japanese government could elect to convert the preferred shares it holds into common shares. This could result in significant reputational harm and significant changes to our strategic goals and operations. Administrative sanctions by the Financial Services Agency against the UFJ group could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and stock price. In June 2004, the Financial Services Agency levied business improvement administrative actions against the UFJ group after concluding that members of the UFJ group’s management had taken actions that amounted to 15 Table of Contents evasions of inspections conducted by the Financial Services Agency on the classification of large borrowers. The causes of these sanctions led to the resignation of the top management of UFJ Holdings, UFJ Bank and UFJ Trust Bank Limited, or UFJ Trust Bank. The Financial Services Agency’s administrative order also directed the UFJ group to address serious deficiencies in its internal control framework. Subsequently, in October 2004, the Financial Services Agency filed criminal indictments against UFJ Bank and former members of its management. In conjunction with these indictments, the Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office announced in December 2004 that they would seek to prosecute UFJ Bank, its former executive officers and a former employee on suspicion of violations of the Banking Law of Japan. In February 2005, three former executives of UFJ Bank pleaded guilty to obstructing the Financial Services Agency’s inspections in violation of the Banking Law. On April 25, 2005, UFJ Bank and its former executives were convicted of breaches of the Banking Law. UFJ Bank was fined ¥90 million, a former executive officer was sentenced to ten months imprisonment with a stay of execution for three years and two other former executive officers were sentenced to eight months imprisonment with a stay of execution for three years. These administrative sanctions and criminal proceedings may affect investor sentiment and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The resulting reputational harm from these events may also adversely impact consumer perception or relationships with both existing and potential business partners, negatively affecting our business and operations. Our results of operations and capital ratios will be negatively affected if we are required to reduce our deferred tax assets. We, UFJ Holdings and the two groups’ Japanese subsidiary banks determine the amount of net deferred tax assets and regulatory capital pursuant to Japanese GAAP and Japanese banking regulations, which differ from US GAAP and U.S. regulations. Under current Japanese banking regulations, all deferred tax assets established pursuant to Japanese GAAP are included in regulatory capital. Currently, Japanese GAAP generally permits the establishment of deferred tax assets for tax benefits that are expected to be realized during a period that is reasonably foreseeable, generally five fiscal years. The calculation of deferred tax assets under Japanese GAAP is based upon various assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future taxable income. Actual results may differ significantly from these assumptions. Even if our ability to include deferred tax assets in regulatory capital is not affected by rule changes (see “—Our capital ratios may also be negatively affected by contemplated or recently adopted regulatory changes” above), if we conclude, based on our projections of future taxable income, that we or our Japanese bank subsidiaries will be unable to realize a portion of the deferred tax assets, our deferred tax assets may be reduced and, as a result, our results of operations may be negatively affected and our capital ratios may decline. We may not be able to refinance our subordinated debt obligations with equally subordinated debt, and as a result our capital ratios may be adversely affected. As of March 31, 2005, subordinated debt accounted for approximately • 33.8% of our total regulatory capital, • 31.5% of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi’s total regulatory capital, • 39.7% of Mitsubishi Trust Bank’s total regulatory capital, • 32.6% of UFJ Holdings’ total regulatory capital, • 33.1% of UFJ Bank’s total regulatory capital, and • 31.7% of UFJ Trust Bank’s total regulatory capital, in each case, as calculated under Japanese GAAP. We or our subsidiary banks may not be able to refinance their subordinated debt obligations with equally subordinated debt after the merger. The failure to refinance these subordinated debt obligations with equally subordinated debt may reduce our total regulatory capital and, as a result, negatively affect our capital ratios. 16 Table of Contents If the Japanese stock market declines, we may incur losses on our securities portfolio and our capital ratios will be adversely affected. We and UFJ Holdings hold large amounts of marketable equity securities. The market values of these securities are inherently volatile. The Nikkei 225 stock average declined to a 20-year low in April 2003 before recovering during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. The Nikkei 225 stock average remained relatively unchanged during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. As of mid-August 2005, the Nikkei 225 stock average was approximately ¥12,000. We will incur losses on our securities portfolio if the Japanese stock market declines in the future. Material declines in the Japanese stock market may also materially adversely affect our capital ratios. For a detailed discussion of our holdings of marketable equity securities and the effect of market declines on our capital ratios, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy” and “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” Our efforts to reduce our shareholdings of equity securities may adversely affect our relationships with customers as well as our stock price, and we or the UFJ group could also be forced to sell some holdings of equity securities at price levels lower than we or the UFJ group would otherwise sell at in order to remain compliant with relevant Japanese laws. Like many Japanese financial institutions, a substantial portion of our and UFJ Holdings’ equity securities portfolio is held for strategic and business-relationship purposes. In November 2001, the Japanese government enacted a law forbidding bank holding companies and banks, including we and UFJ Holdings and our respective bank subsidiaries, from holding, after September 30, 2006, stock with an aggregate value that exceeds their adjusted Tier I capital. Additionally, Japanese banks are also generally prohibited by the Banking Law and the Anti-Monopoly Law of Japan from purchasing or holding more than 5% of the equity interest in any domestic third party. In order to comply with this requirement, prior to or soon after the merger we and the UFJ group may be required to sell some holdings of equity securities so that the two groups’ combined holdings do not exceed this 5% threshold after the merger. The sale of equity securities, whether to remain compliant with the prohibition on holding stock in excess of our adjusted Tier I capital, to reduce our risk exposure to fluctuations in equity security prices, to comply with the requirements of the Banking Law and the Anti-Monopoly Law or otherwise, will reduce our strategic shareholdings, which may have an adverse effect on relationships with our customers. In addition, our plans to reduce our strategic shareholdings may encourage some of our customers to sell their shares of our common stock, which may have a negative impact on our stock price. In order to remain compliant with the legal requirements described above, we and the UFJ group may also sell some equity securities at price levels lower than we and the UFJ group would otherwise sell at. Our trading and investment activities expose us to interest rate, exchange rate and other risks. We and UFJ Holdings undertake extensive trading and investment activities involving a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives. Our income from these activities are subject to volatility caused by, among other things, changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity and debt prices. For example: • increases in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the value of our fixed income securities portfolio, as discussed in “—Changes in interest rate policy, particularly unexpected or sudden increases in interest rates, could adversely affect the value of our bond portfolio, problem loans and results of operations” above; and • the strengthening of the yen against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies will reduce the value, in our financial statements, of our substantial portfolio of foreign currency denominated investments. In addition, downgrades of the credit ratings of some of the fixed income securities in our portfolio could negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition in future periods will be exposed to the risks of loss associated with these activities. For a discussion of our investment portfolio and 17 Table of Contents related risks see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Investment Portfolio” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk.” A downgrade of our credit ratings could have a negative effect on our business. A downgrade of our credit ratings by one or more of the credit rating agencies could have a negative effect on our treasury operations and other aspects of our business. In the event of a downgrade of our credit ratings, our treasury business unit may have to accept less favorable terms in our transactions with counterparties, including capital raising activities, or may be unable to enter into some transactions. This could have a negative impact on the profitability of our treasury and other operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We might have to pay risk premiums on borrowings from international financial institutions or be subject to credit limitations by them. As a result of concerns regarding asset quality and the failure of several large Japanese financial institutions, international financial institutions have in the past: • charged an additional risk premium to Japanese financial institutions for short-term borrowings in the interbank market; and • placed restrictions on the amount of credit, including interbank deposits, that they extend to Japanese banks. These restrictions on credit resulted in higher operating expenses and decreased profitability for affected Japanese banks. If conditions in the Japanese banking and other financial sectors further deteriorate, international markets could again impose risk premiums or credit restrictions on Japanese banks, including us. We may not be able to achieve the goals of our business strategies. We currently plan to pursue various business strategies to improve our profitability. In addition to the risks associated with the merger with UFJ Holdings, there are various other risks that could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. For example: • we may be unable to cross-sell our products and services as effectively as anticipated; • we may have difficulty in coordinating the operations of our subsidiaries and affiliates as planned due to legal restrictions, internal conflict or market resistance; • we may lose customers and business as some of our subsidiaries’ or affiliates’ operations are reorganized and, in some cases, rebranded; • our efforts to streamline operations may require more time than expected and cause some negative reactions from our customers; • new products and services we introduce may not gain acceptance among customers; and • we may have difficulty developing and operating the necessary information systems. We will be exposed to increased risks as we expand the range of our products and services. As we expand the range of our products and services beyond our traditional banking and trust businesses and as the sophistication of financial products and management systems grows, we will be exposed to new and increasingly complex risks. We may have only limited experience with the risks related to the expanded range of these products and services. To the extent we expand our product and service offerings through acquisitions, we 18 Table of Contents face risks relating to the integration of acquired businesses with our existing operations. Moreover, some of the activities that our subsidiaries are expected to engage in, such as derivatives and foreign currency trading, present substantial risks. Our risk management systems may prove to be inadequate and may not work in all cases or to the degree required. As a result, we are subject to substantial market, credit and other risks in relation to the expanding scope of our products, services and trading activities, which could result in us incurring substantial losses. In addition, our efforts to offer new services and products may not succeed if product or market opportunities develop more slowly than expected or if the profitability of opportunities is undermined by competitive pressures. For a detailed discussion of our risk management systems, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk.” Any adverse changes in UNBC’s business could significantly affect our results of operations. UNBC contributes a significant portion of our net income. Any adverse change in the business or operations of UNBC could significantly affect our results of operations. Factors that could negatively affect UNBC’s results include adverse economic conditions in California, including the decline in the technology sector, the California state government’s financial condition, a potential downturn in the real estate and housing industries in California, substantial competition in the California banking market, growing uncertainty over the U.S. economy due to the threat of terrorist attacks, fluctuating oil prices and rising interest rates, negative trends in debt ratings and equity valuations of various borrowers increasing the risk of corporate bankruptcy filings, and additional costs which may arise from enterprise-wide compliance with applicable laws and regulations such as the Bank Secrecy Act and related amendments under the U.S. Patriot Act. For a detailed segment discussion relating to UNBC, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Business Segment Analysis—Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.” We are exposed to substantial credit and market risks in Asia, Latin America and other regions. We are active in Asia, Latin America and other regions through a network of branches and subsidiaries and are thus exposed to a variety of credit and market risks associated with countries in these regions. A decline in the value of Asian, Latin American or other relevant currencies could adversely affect the creditworthiness of some of our borrowers in those regions. For example, the loans we and the UFJ group have made to Asian, Latin American and other overseas borrowers and banks are often denominated in yen, U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. These borrowers often do not hedge the loans to protect against fluctuations in the values of local currencies. A devaluation of the local currency would make it more difficult for a borrower earning income in that currency to pay its debts to us and other foreign lenders. In addition, some countries in which we operate may attempt to support the value of their currencies by raising domestic interest rates. If this happens, the borrowers in these countries would have to devote more of their resources to repaying their domestic obligations, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their debts to us and other foreign lenders. The limited credit availability resulting from these and related conditions may adversely affect economic conditions in some countries. This could cause a further deterioration of the credit quality of borrowers and banks in those countries and cause us to incur further losses. In addition, we are active in other regions that expose us to risks similar to the risks described above and also risks specific to those regions, which may cause us to incur losses or suffer other adverse effects. For a more detailed discussion of our credit exposure to Asian, Latin American and other relevant countries, see “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Allowance for Credit Losses, Nonperforming and Past Due Loans.” Our income and expenses relating to our international operations, as well as our foreign assets and liabilities, are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. Our international operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the Japanese yen. When the yen appreciates, yen amounts for transactions denominated in foreign currencies, including a substantial portion of UNBC’s transactions, decline. In addition, a portion of our assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent that our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities 19 Table of Contents are not matched in the same currency or appropriately hedged, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the yen may adversely affect our financial condition, including our capital ratios. In addition, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates will create foreign currency translation gains or losses. For a historical discussion of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Effect of the Change in Exchange Rates on Foreign Currency Translation.” Losses relating to our pension plans and a decline in returns on our plan assets may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur losses if the fair value of our pension plans’ assets declines, if the rate of return on our pension assets declines or if there is a change in the actuarial assumptions on which the calculations of the projected benefit obligations are based. Changes in the interest rate environment and other factors may also adversely affect the amount of unfunded pension obligations and the resulting annual amortization expense. We may have to compensate for losses in our loan trusts and jointly operated designated money in trusts. This could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Our trust bank subsidiary may have to compensate for losses of principal of all loan trusts and some jointly operated designated money in trusts. Funds in those guaranteed trusts are generally invested in loans and securities. Our trust bank subsidiary will be required to maintain reserves in the accounts of those guaranteed trusts for loan losses and other impairments of principal, but the amount of these compensation obligations would not appear as a liability on our balance sheet. If the amount of assets and reserves held in the guaranteed trusts falls below the principal as a result of loan losses, losses in the investment portfolio or otherwise, which are not absorbed by the profit earned by the trusts, our trust bank subsidiary would be required to make a payment on the guaranties. For a detailed discussion of guaranteed trusts, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Trust beneficiaries of loan trusts and jointly operated designated money in trust are entitled to a semi-annual dividend, which in practice is the “projected rate” published semi-annually. Sharp declines in interest rates or in the value of the securities held in our trusts’ investment portfolios will partly reduce performance-dependent trust fees that our trust bank subsidiary will generate from our loan trusts and jointly operated designated money in trust, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Our business and operations are exposed to various system, political and social risks beyond our control. As a major financial institution, our business and operations are significantly dependent upon the domestic and world economies and are thus exposed to various system, political and social risks beyond our control. Recent examples include disruptions of the Internet and other information networks due to major virus outbreaks, major terrorist activity such as the July 2005 London attacks, serious political instability and major health epidemics such as the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Such incidents may directly affect our business and operations by disrupting our operational infrastructure or internal systems. Such incidents may also negatively impact the economic conditions, political regimes and social infrastructure of countries and regions in which we operate, and possibly the global economy as a whole. These various factors beyond our control, as well as the threat of such risks or related countermeasures, may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to liability and regulatory action if we are unable to protect personal and other confidential information. In recent years, there have been many cases of personal information and records in the possession of corporations and institutions being leaked or improperly accessed. In the event that personal information in our possession about our customers or employees is leaked or improperly accessed and subsequently misused, we 20 Table of Contents may be subject to liability and regulatory action. The standards applicable to us have become more stringent under the new Personal Information Protection Act of Japan, which became effective from April 2005. As an institution in possession of personal information, we may have to provide compensation for economic loss and emotional distress arising out of a failure to protect such information in accordance with the Personal Information Protection Act. In addition, such incidents could create a negative public perception of our operations, systems or brand, which may in turn decrease customer and market confidence and materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse regulatory developments or changes in laws, government policies or economic controls could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We conduct our business subject to ongoing regulation and associated regulatory risks, including the effects of changes in the laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and interpretations in Japan and the other markets in which we operate. Future developments or changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice, fiscal or other policies and their effects are unpredictable and beyond our control. In particular, the Financial Services Agency has announced various regulatory changes that it would consider. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Services Agency launched an initiative designed to identify additional subjects for future financial reforms to be enacted over the next two years relating to various financial issues, including the possible enactment of an investment services law, which aims to provide an overall regulatory regime applicable to financial institutions and financial products and the improvement of corporate governance and risk management of financial institutions. The Financial Services Agency and other regulatory authorities also have the authority to conduct, at any time, inspections to review banks’ accounts, including those of our bank subsidiaries. Any of the changes referred to above or any action that must be taken by us, whether as a result of regulatory developments or changes or inspections, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by competitive pressures, which have increased significantly due to regulatory changes. In recent years, the Japanese financial system has been increasingly deregulated and barriers to competition have been reduced. In addition, the Japanese financial industry has been undergoing significant consolidation, as a result of which larger and more integrated financial institutions have emerged as competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively in this more competitive and deregulated business environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. For a more detailed discussion of our competition in Japan, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition—Japan.” Our ability to pay dividends is substantially dependent on our subsidiaries and affiliated companies’ dividend payments to us. As a holding company, substantially all of our cash flow will come from dividends that our subsidiaries and affiliated companies pay to us. Under some circumstances, various statutory or contractual provisions may restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries and affiliated companies can pay to us. Also, if our subsidiaries and affiliated companies do not have sufficient earnings, they will be unable to pay dividends to us, and we in turn may be unable to pay dividends. Risks Related to Owning Our Shares Efforts by other companies to reduce their holdings of our shares may adversely affect our stock price. Many companies in Japan that hold shares of our stock and UFJ Holdings stock have announced plans to reduce their shareholdings in other companies. Any future plans of ours to sell shares in other companies may further encourage those companies and other companies to sell our shares. If an increased number of shares of our common stock are sold in the market, it will adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be different from those under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. Our articles of incorporation, the regulations of our board of directors and the Japanese Commercial Code govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders rights are different from those that would apply if we were not a Japanese corporation. Shareholders rights under Japanese law are different in some respects from shareholders rights under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction outside of Japan. For a detailed discussion of the relevant provisions under the Japanese Commercial Code and our Articles of Incorporation, see “Item 10.B. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors, senior management or corporate auditors, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We are a joint stock company incorporated under the laws of Japan. Almost all of our directors, senior management and corporate auditors reside outside the United States. Many of the assets of us and these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce, against us or these persons, judgments obtained in the U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We believe that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of claims predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Risks Related to Owning Our ADSs As a holder of ADSs, you have fewer rights than a shareholder and you must act through the depositary to exercise these rights. The rights of our shareholders under Japanese law to take actions such as voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, a holder of ADSs may not be entitled to the same rights as a shareholder. In your capacity as an ADS holder, you are not able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights, except through the depositary. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may affect the U.S. dollar value of our ADSs and dividends payable to holders of our ADSs. Market prices for our ADSs may fall if the value of the yen declines against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the U.S. dollar amount of cash dividends and other cash payments made to holders of our ADSs would be reduced if the value of the yen declines against the U.S. dollar. 22 Table of Contents 