D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk” and “Selected Statistical Data.” Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these factors. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulty integrating our IT system and other aspects of our operations with those of the UFJ group and, as a result, may have difficulty achieving the benefits expected from the integration. Since our merger with UFJ Holdings, which was completed in October 2005, we have been implementing a business integration plan that is complex, time-consuming and costly. Achieving the targeted revenue synergies and cost savings is dependent on the successful implementation of the integration plan. We may not succeed in addressing the risks or other problems encountered in the ongoing integration process. In particular, as part of our integration process, we are currently undertaking a significant project to fully integrate the IT systems of the merged commercial bank subsidiaries and the merged trust bank subsidiaries, respectively. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., or BTMU, commenced the integration of the two systems into a new common IT system in the first half of calendar year 2008 and has since encountered some system problems. These and other problems in the ongoing integration process may cause us to incur significant additional costs, preventing us from achieving the previously announced cost reduction targets as scheduled. Those problems could also severely 7 Table of Contents damage our reputation. In addition, previously expected revenue synergies may not materialize in the expected time period if we fail to address any problems that arise in the ongoing integration process. If we are unable to resolve smoothly any problems that arise in the ongoing integration process, our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. If the goodwill recorded in connection with our recent acquisitions, including the merger with UFJ Holdings, becomes impaired, we may be required to record impairment charges, which may adversely affect our financial results and the price of our securities. In accordance with US GAAP, we have accounted for our recent acquisitions, including the merger with UFJ Holdings and the acquisition of additional shares in kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd., using the purchase method of accounting. We recorded the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies as goodwill. US GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Goodwill is tested by initially estimating fair value and then comparing it against the carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we are required to record an impairment loss. The amount of impairment and the remaining amount of goodwill, if any, is determined by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit as of the test date against the fair value of the assets and liabilities of that reporting unit as of the same date. The recent global financial market instability led to the decline in our market capitalization and negatively affected the fair value of our reporting units for purposes of our periodic testing of goodwill for impairment. As a result, we recorded a significant amount of impairment of goodwill in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. As of March 31, 2008, we recorded goodwill of ¥1,074.1 billion. The amount of goodwill is expected to increase as a result of our acquisition of additional common shares of Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS in August 2008 and our expected acquisition of additional common shares of UnionBanCal Corporation, or UNBC, through our tender offer that is scheduled to expire on September 26, 2008, unless extended, and the planned subsequent merger. We may be required to record additional impairment charges relating to goodwill in future periods if the fair value of any of our reporting units declines below the fair value of related assets net of liabilities. Any additional impairment charges will negatively affect our financial results, and the price of our securities could be adversely affected. For a detailed discussion of the goodwill recorded and our periodic testing of goodwill for impairment, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects— Critical Accounting Estimates—Accounting for Goodwill and Intangible Assets” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Goodwill.” We may suffer additional credit-related losses in the future due to problem loans. When we loan money or commit to loan money, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We may incur credit losses or have to provide for additional allowance for credit losses if: • large borrowers become insolvent or must be restructured; • domestic or global economic conditions, either generally or in particular industries in which large borrowers operate, deteriorate; • the value of the collateral we hold, such as real estate or securities, declines; or • we are adversely affected by other factors to an extent that is worse than anticipated. If actual loan losses are higher than currently expected, the current allowances for credit losses will be insufficient. Our allowance for credit losses in our loan portfolio is based on evaluations, assumptions and estimates about customers, the value of collateral we hold and the economy as a whole. Our loan losses could prove to be materially different from the estimates and could materially exceed these allowances. In addition, the standards for establishing allowances change, causing us to change some of the evaluations, assumptions and estimates used in determining the allowances. As a result, we may need to provide for additional allowances for credit losses. 8 Table of Contents Credit losses may also increase if we elect, or are forced by economic or other considerations, to sell or write off our problem loans at a larger discount, in a larger amount or in a different time or manner than we may otherwise want. We may not be able to realize the value of the collateral we hold or enforce our rights against defaulting customers because of the difficulty of foreclosing on collateral in Japan, the illiquidity of and depressed values in the Japanese real estate market, and other reasons. In addition, we may provide additional loans, equity capital or other forms of support to troubled borrowers in order to facilitate their restructuring and revitalization efforts. We may forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against them, and we may forgive loans to them in conjunction with their debt restructuring. These practices may substantially increase our exposure to troubled borrowers and increase our losses. An increase in loan losses would adversely affect our results of operations, weaken our financial condition and erode our capital base. We may be adversely affected if economic conditions in Japan or elsewhere worsen. Our performance is affected by general economic conditions of the countries in which we operate, particularly Japan where we primarily conduct our business. General economic conditions that could affect us include interest rates, inflation, investor sentiment, the availability and cost of credit, the liquidity of the global financial markets, the level and volatility of debt and equity capital markets, and raw material prices. Any of these economic conditions, currently existing or occurring in the future, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a discussion of the current economic environment in Japan and certain other countries, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Business Environment.” If the Japanese stock market declines in the future, we may incur losses on our securities portfolio and our capital ratios will be adversely affected. We hold large amounts of marketable equity securities, of which a significant portion are securities of Japanese issuers. The market values of these securities are inherently volatile. We have experienced impairment losses on our marketable equity securities in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 as a result of a decline in Japanese stock prices, and we may incur additional losses on our securities portfolio if the Japanese stock market further declines in the future. Material declines in the Japanese stock market may also materially adversely affect our capital ratios. For a detailed discussion of our holdings of marketable equity securities and the effect of market declines on our capital ratios, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy” and “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the recent global financial instability triggered by disruptions in the residential mortgage market in the United States. The recent credit market instability initially triggered by disruptions in the residential mortgage market in the United States resulting from concerns with increased defaults of higher risk mortgages to lower income households may adversely affect our loan and investment portfolios, which includes securitization products such as asset-backed securities. For example, some of our investment securities may need to be marked at a significantly lower price because a market price for those securities is depressed or not properly quoted. We may also be affected by credit market deterioration caused by defaults on these higher risk residential mortgages. Specifically, the availability of credit may become limited, causing some of our counterparties to default, or some of our credit derivative transactions to be negatively affected. For example, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed a petition under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code on September 15, 2008, as a result of which we expect an adverse impact of approximately ¥20 to ¥30 billion on our income from continuing operations before income tax expense for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009. Moreover, the negative developments in the US credit markets may cause significant fluctuations in stock markets globally and foreign currency exchange rates, which in turn may affect our results of operation. If credit market conditions continue to deteriorate, our capital funding structure may need to be adjusted, our funding costs may increase, or our credit-related losses may increase, all of which could have a material impact on our financial results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents The valuation of certain financial instruments relies on quoted market prices that may fluctuate significantly. A substantial portion of the assets on our balance sheet comprises financial instruments that we carry at fair value. Generally, in order to establish the fair value of these instruments, we rely on quoted market prices. If the value of a financial instrument carried at fair value declines, a corresponding write-down may be recognized in our income statement. As the global financial markets became unstable following concerns of increased defaults of higher risk mortgages in the United States, there have been increasing circumstances where quoted market prices for securities became significantly depressed or were not properly quoted. Significant fluctuations in the market or disfunctionalities in the market could have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the financial instruments that we hold. Our business may be adversely affected by negative developments with respect to other financial institutions, both directly and through the effect they may have on the overall banking environment and on their borrowers. Some domestic and foreign financial institutions, including banks, non-bank lending and credit institutions, securities companies and insurance companies, have experienced declining asset quality and capital adequacy and other financial problems. This may lead to severe liquidity and solvency problems, which have in the past resulted in the liquidation, government control or restructuring of affected institutions. For example, the recent deterioration of the asset-backed securitization products market and residential mortgage market in the United States resulted in Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filing a petition under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code. Other banks, securities companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions, especially US institutions, continue to be under significant pressure due to declining asset quality as a result of recent deterioration of the global financial markets. These developments are expected to adversely affect our financial results for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009. Other financial difficulties relating to financial institutions could adversely affect us because: • we have extended loans, some of which may need to be classified as nonaccrual and restructured loans, to banks, securities companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; • we are a shareholder of some other banks and financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; • we may be requested to participate in providing assistance to support distressed financial institutions that are not our consolidated subsidiaries; • the government may elect to provide regulatory, tax, funding or other benefits to those financial institutions to strengthen their capital, facilitate their sale or otherwise, which in turn may increase their competitiveness against us; • deposit insurance premiums could rise if deposit insurance funds prove to be inadequate; • bankruptcies or government support or control of financial institutions could generally undermine confidence in financial institutions or adversely affect the overall banking environment; • negative media coverage of the financial industry, regardless of its accuracy and applicability to us, could affect customer or investor sentiment, harm our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our business or the price of our securities; • new regulations may be adopted to prevent future difficulties of financial institutions, which could increase our short term costs; and • we could be perceived to be facing the same issues as other financial institutions that hold assets with no market liquidity or with significantly depressed values as a result of the significantly negative views about the financial services industry in general. Changes in interest rate policy, particularly unexpected or sudden increases in interest rates, could adversely affect the value of our bond and financial derivative portfolios, problem loans and results of operations. We hold a significant amount of Japanese government bonds and foreign bonds, including US Treasury bonds. We also hold a large financial derivative portfolio, consisting primarily of interest-rate futures, swaps and 10 Table of Contents options, for our asset liability management. An increase in relevant interest rates, particularly if such increase is unexpected or sudden, may negatively affect the value of our bond portfolio and reduce the so called “spread,” which is the difference between the rate of interest earned and the rate of interest paid. In addition, an increase in relevant interest rates may increase losses on our derivative portfolio and increase our problem loans as some of our borrowers may not be able to meet the increased interest payment requirements, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. For a detailed discussion of our bond portfolio, see “Selected Statistical Data—Investment Portfolio.” Our trading and investment activities as well as our international operations expose us to interest rate, exchange rate and other risks. We undertake extensive trading and investment activities involving a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives. We also have significant business operations abroad, including operations of UNBC, in the United States and elsewhere. Our income from these activities as well as our foreign assets and liabilities resulting from our international operations are subject to volatility caused by, among other things, changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity and debt prices. For example: • increases in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the value of our fixed income securities portfolio, as discussed in “—Changes in interest rate policy, particularly unexpected or sudden increases in interest rates, could adversely affect the value of our bond and financial derivatives portfolios, problem loans and results of operations” above; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the Japanese yen may adversely affect our financial condition, including our capital ratios, to the extent that our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are not matched in the same currency or appropriately hedged, and will create foreign currency translation gains or losses, as described in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Effect of the Change in Exchange Rates on Foreign Currency Translation.” In addition, downgrades of the credit ratings of some of the securities in our portfolio could negatively affect our results of operations. Our trading and investment activities in financial instruments may also be adversely affected by regulatory measures taken by government agencies, such as the SEC measures taken recently to limit certain types of shortselling in securities. Our results of operations and financial condition are exposed to the risks of loss associated with these activities. For a discussion of our investment portfolio and related risks see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Investment Portfolio” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk.” We may not be able to maintain our capital ratios above minimum required levels, which could result in the suspension of some or all of our operations. We, as a holding company, and our Japanese banking subsidiaries are required to maintain risk-weighted capital ratios above the levels specified in the capital adequacy guidelines of the Financial Services Agency of Japan. The capital ratios are calculated in accordance with Japanese banking regulations based on information derived from the relevant entity’s financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, or Japanese GAAP. Our subsidiaries in California, UNBC and Union Bank of California, N.A. are subject to similar US capital adequacy guidelines. We or our banking subsidiaries may be unable to continue to satisfy the capital adequacy requirements because of: • increases in credit risk assets and expected losses we or our banking subsidiaries may incur due to fluctuations in our or our banking subsidiaries’ loan and securities portfolios as a result of deteriorations in the credit of our borrowers and the issuers of equity and debt securities; • increases in credit costs we or our banking subsidiaries may incur as we or our banking subsidiaries dispose of problem loans or as a result of deteriorations in the credit of our borrowers; 11 Table of Contents • declines in the value of our or our banking subsidiaries’ securities portfolio; • changes in the capital ratio requirements or in the guidelines regarding the calculation of bank holding companies’ or banks’ capital ratios or changes in the regulatory capital requirements for securities firms; • a reduction in the value of our or our banking subsidiaries’ deferred tax assets; • adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • other adverse developments discussed in these risk factors. Our capital ratios may also be adversely affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to refinance our subordinated debt obligations with equally subordinated debt. As of March 31, 2008, subordinated debt accounted for approximately 29.8% of our total regulatory capital, 31.2% of BTMU’s total regulatory capital, and 21.4% of total regulatory capital of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, or MUTB, in each case, as calculated under Japanese GAAP. The failure to refinance these subordinated debt obligations with equally subordinated debt may reduce our total regulatory capital and, as a result, negatively affect our capital ratios. If our capital ratios fall below required levels, the Financial Services Agency could require us to take a variety of corrective actions, including withdrawal from all international operations or suspension of all or part of our business operations. For a discussion of our capital ratios and the related regulatory guidelines, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—Japan—Capital Adequacy” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Adequacy.” We may have difficulty achieving the benefits expected from the recently completed and planned mergers and other business combinations. In line with our ongoing strategic effort to create a leading comprehensive financial group that offers a broad range of financial products and services, we have recently completed and are planning to complete mergers and other business combinations, including transactions with some of our subsidiaries and equity-method investees. For example, on August 29, 2008, BTMU commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the shares of UNBC’s common stock not owned by us. On September 16, 2008, we commenced a tender offer to acquire additional common shares of ACOM Co., Ltd. We also review opportunities to pursue new acquisitions or business combinations regularly. If a planned merger or business combination fails, we may be subject to various material risks. For example, our growth strategies in Japan and globally may not be implemented as planned. In addition, the price of our stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that any pending transaction will be completed. Furthermore, our costs related to any planned transaction, including legal, accounting and certain financial adviser fees, must be paid even if the transaction is not completed. Our reputation may also be harmed due to our failure to complete an announced transaction. Even after a transaction is completed, there are various risks that could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives, including: • The growth opportunities and other expected benefits of these business combinations or acquisitions may not be realized in the expected time period and unanticipated problems could arise in the integration process, including unanticipated expenses related to the integration process as well as delays or other difficulties in coordinating, consolidating and integrating personnel, information and management systems, and customer products and services; • We may be unable to cross-sell our products and services as effectively as anticipated and we may lose customers and business as some of the operations are reorganized, consolidated with other businesses and, in some cases, rebranded; • We may have difficulty in coordinating the operations of our subsidiaries and affiliates as planned due to legal restrictions, internal conflict or market resistance; 12 Table of Contents • The diversion of management and key employees’ attention may detract from our ability to increase revenues and minimize costs; and • We may encounter difficulties in penetrating certain markets due to adverse reactions to our newly acquired ownership in, or closer affiliation with, other financial institutions or businesses. Any of the foregoing and other risks may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. For a more detailed discussion of recently completed and planned mergers and other business combinations involving our subsidiaries and affiliates, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments.” Any adverse changes in UNBC’s business could significantly affect our results of operations. UNBC contributes to a significant portion of our net income. Any adverse change in the business or operations of UNBC could significantly affect our results of operations. Factors that could negatively affect UNBC’s results include adverse economic conditions in California, including the downturn in the real estate and housing industries in California, substantial competition in the California banking market, uncertainty over the US economy due to deteriorating credit markets in the United States, the threat of terrorist attacks, fluctuating oil prices and rising interest rates, negative trends in debt ratings, and additional costs and other adverse consequences which may arise from enterprise-wide compliance, or failure to comply, with applicable laws and regulations such as the US Bank Secrecy Act and related amendments under the USA PATRIOT Act. We will be more significantly impaired by any adverse developments at UNBC if we are able to successfully acquire the shares for which we have launched a tender offer and complete the planned second-step merger after the tender offer. We are exposed to new or increased risks as we expand the range of our products and services and the geographic scope of our business. As we expand the range of our products and services beyond our traditional banking and trust businesses and as the sophistication of financial products and management systems grows, we will be exposed to new and increasingly complex risks. We may have only limited experience with the risks related to the expanded range of these products and services. As a result, we may not be able to foresee certain risks, and new products and services we introduce may not gain acceptance among customers. Moreover, some of the activities that our subsidiaries are expected to engage in, such as derivatives and foreign currency trading, present substantial risks. As we expand the geographic scope of our business, we will also be exposed to risks that are unique to particular jurisdictions or markets. Our risk management systems may prove to be inadequate and may not work in all cases or to the degree required. As a result, we are subject to substantial market, credit and other risks in relation to the expanding scope of our products, services and trading activities or expanding our business beyond our traditional markets, which could result in us incurring substantial losses. In addition, our efforts to offer new services and products or penetrate new markets may not succeed if product or market opportunities develop more slowly than expected or if the profitability of opportunities is undermined by competitive pressures. For a detailed discussion of our risk management systems, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk.” Changes in the business environment for consumer finance companies in Japan have adversely affected our recent financial results, and may further adversely affect our future financial results. We have a large loan portfolio to the consumer lending industry as well as large shareholdings of consumer finance companies. The Japanese government has been implementing regulatory reforms affecting the consumer lending industry in recent years. In December 2006, the Diet passed legislation to reduce the maximum permissible interest rate under the Law Concerning Acceptance of Investment, Cash, Deposit and Interest Rate, etc., which is currently 29.2% per annum, to 20% per annum. The reduction in the maximum permissible interest rate will be implemented before mid-2010. Under the reforms, all interest rates will be subject to the lower limits (15-20% per annum) imposed by the Interest Rate Restriction Law, which will compel, or has already compelled, lending institutions to lower the interest rates they charge borrowers. 13 Table of Contents Currently, consumer finance companies are able to charge interest rates exceeding the limits stipulated by the Interest Rate Restriction Law, provided that they satisfy certain conditions set forth in the Law Concerning Lending Business. Accordingly, MUFG’s consumer finance subsidiaries and equity-method investees offer loans at interest rates above the Interest Rate Restriction Law. As a result of recent decisions by the Supreme Court of Japan, consumer finance companies experienced a significant increase in borrowers’ claims for reimbursement of previously collected interest payments in excess of the limits stipulated by the Interest Rate Restriction Law. New regulations that are scheduled to be effective before mid-2010 may also have a negative impact on the business of consumer finance companies as those new regulations are expected to require, among other things, consumer finance companies to review the repayment capability of borrowers before lending, thereby limiting the amount of borrowing available to individual borrowers. These and other related developments have adversely affected, and may further adversely affect, the operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries and borrowers which are engaged in consumer lending, which in turn may affect the value of our related shareholdings and loan portfolio. For example, there may be increases in the allowance for repayment of excess interest at our consumer finance subsidiaries. Additionally, these developments may have indirect negative financial consequences for us, such as a change in our tax circumstances or an increase in our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as a result of a decline in the estimated future taxable income of our consumer finance subsidiaries and may negatively affect market perception of our consumer lending operations, thereby adversely affecting the future financial results. We have recently been subject to several regulatory actions for non-compliance with legal requirements. These regulatory matters and any future regulatory matters or regulatory changes could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We conduct our business subject to ongoing regulation and associated regulatory compliance risks, including the effects of changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and interpretations in Japan and other markets in which we operate. Our compliance risk management systems and programs may not be fully effective in preventing all violations of laws, regulations and rules. The Financial Services Agency of Japan and regulatory authorities in the United States and elsewhere also have the authority to conduct, at any time, inspections to review banks’ accounts, including those of our banking subsidiaries. Some of our other financial services businesses, such as our securities business, are also subject to regulations set by, and inspections conducted by, various self-regulatory organizations, such as the National Securities Dealers Association in the United States. In recent years, we have been subject to several regulatory actions by, among others, the Financial Services Agency of Japan, the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission of Japan and various US banking regulators. Our failure or inability to comply fully with applicable laws and regulations could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to reputation, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorization to operate, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Regulatory matters may also negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for future strategic initiatives. Furthermore, failure to take necessary corrective action, or the discovery of violations of law in the process of further review of any of the matters mentioned above or in the process of implementing any corrective measures, could result in further regulatory action. In addition, future developments or changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice, fiscal or other policies and their effects are unpredictable and beyond our control. For example, new regulations to be enacted before mid-2010 are expected to require, among other things, consumer finance companies in Japan to review the repayment capabilities of borrowers before lending, thereby limiting the amount of borrowing available to individual borrowers, which in turn may negatively affect our future financial results. 14 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by competitive pressures, which have partly increased due to regulatory changes and recent market changes in the financial industry domestically and globally. In recent years, the Japanese financial system has been increasingly deregulated and barriers to competition have been reduced. The privatization of the Japanese postal savings system and the establishment of the Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. in October 2007, as well as the planned privatization of certain governmental financial institutions, could also substantially increase competition within the financial services industry. In addition, there has been significant consolidation and convergence among financial institutions domestically and globally, and this trend may continue in the future and further increase competition in the market. A number of large commercial banks and other broad-based financial services firms have merged or formed strategic alliances with other financial institutions both in Japan and overseas. If we are unable to compete effectively in this more competitive and deregulated business environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. For a more detailed discussion of our competition in Japan, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition—Japan.” Our information systems and other aspects of our business and operations are exposed to various system, political and social risks. As a major financial institution, our information systems and other aspects of our business and operations are exposed to various system, political and social risks beyond our control. Incidents such as disruptions of the Internet and other information networks due to major virus outbreaks, major terrorist activity, serious political instability and major health epidemics have the potential to directly affect our business and operations by disrupting our operational infrastructure or internal systems. Such incidents may also negatively impact the economic conditions, political regimes and social infrastructure of countries and regions in which we operate, and possibly the global economy as a whole. Our risk management policies and procedures may be insufficient to address these and other large-scale unanticipated risks. In particular, the capacity and reliability of our electronic information technology systems are critical to our day-to-day operations and a failure or disruption of these systems would adversely affect our capacity to conduct our business. In addition to our own internal information systems, we also provide our customers with access to our services and products through the Internet and ATMs. These systems as well as our hardware and software are subject to malfunction or incapacitation due to human error, accidents, power loss, sabotage, hacking, computer viruses and similar events, as well as the loss of support services from third parties such as telephone and Internet service providers. Additionally, as with other Japanese companies, our offices and other facilities are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our redundancy and backup measures may not be sufficient to avoid a material disruption in our operations, and our contingency plans may not address all eventualities that may occur in the event of a material disruption. These various factors, the threat of such risks or related countermeasures, or a failure to address such risks, may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to liability and regulatory action if we are unable to protect personal and other confidential information. There have been many cases where personal information and records in the possession of corporations and institutions were leaked or improperly accessed. In the event that personal information in our possession about our customers or employees is leaked or improperly accessed and subsequently misused, we may be subject to liability and regulatory action. As an institution in possession of personal information, we are required to treat personal and other confidential information as required by the Personal Information Protection Act of Japan. We may have to provide compensation for economic loss and emotional distress arising out of a failure to protect such information in accordance with the Personal Information Protection Act. In addition, such incidents could create a negative public perception of our operations, systems or brand, which may in turn decrease customer and market confidence and materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents A downgrade of our credit ratings could have a negative effect on our business. A downgrade of our credit ratings by one or more of the credit rating agencies could have a negative effect on our treasury operations and other aspects of our business. In the event of a downgrade of our credit ratings, our treasury business unit may have to accept less favorable terms in our transactions with counterparties, including capital raising activities, or may be unable to enter into some transactions. This could have a negative impact on the profitability of our treasury and other operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may have to compensate for losses in our loan trusts and money in trusts. Our trust bank subsidiary may have to compensate for losses of principal of all loan trusts and some money in trusts. Funds in those guaranteed trusts are generally invested in loans and securities. If the amount of assets and reserves held in the guaranteed trusts falls below the principal as a result of loan losses, losses in the investment portfolio or otherwise, it would adversely affect our results of operations. Damage to our reputation could harm our business. We are one of the largest and most influential financial institutions in Japan by virtue of our market share and the size of our operations and customer base. Our reputation is critical in maintaining our relationships with clients, investors, regulators and the general public. Our reputation could be damaged by numerous causes, including, among others, system troubles, employee misconduct, failure to properly address potential conflicts of interest, litigation, compliance failures, the activities of customers and counterparties over which we have limited or no control, and exacting scrutiny from regulatory authorities and customers regarding our trade practices and potential abuses of our dominant bargaining position in our dealings with customers. If we are unable to prevent or properly address these causes, we could lose existing or prospective customers and investors, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to substantial credit and market risks in Asia, Latin America and other regions. We are active in Asia, Latin America and other regions through a network of branches and subsidiaries and are thus exposed to a variety of credit and market risks associated with countries in these regions. A decline in the value of Asian, Latin American or other relevant currencies could adversely affect the creditworthiness of some of our borrowers in those regions. For example, the loans we have made to Asian, Latin American and other overseas borrowers and banks are often denominated in yen, US dollars or other foreign currencies. These borrowers often do not hedge the loans to protect against fluctuations in the values of local currencies. A devaluation of the local currency would make it more difficult for a borrower earning income in that currency to pay its debts to us and other foreign lenders. In addition, some countries in which we operate may attempt to support the value of their currencies by raising domestic interest rates. If this happens, the borrowers in these countries would have to devote more of their resources to repaying their domestic obligations, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their debts to us and other foreign lenders. The limited credit availability resulting from these and related conditions may adversely affect economic conditions in some countries. This could cause a further deterioration of the credit quality of borrowers and banks in those countries and cause us to incur further losses. In addition, we are active in other regions that expose us to risks similar to the risks described above and also risks specific to those regions, which may cause us to incur losses or suffer other adverse effects. We may incur significant additional costs for implementing effective internal controls. In order to operate as a global financial institution, it is essential for us to have effective internal controls, corporate compliance functions, and accounting systems to manage our assets and operations. Moreover, under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which applies by reason of our status as an SEC reporting company, we are 16 Table of Contents required to establish internal control over our financial reporting, and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclose whether such internal control is effective. Our independent auditors must also conduct an audit to evaluate and then render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are also subject to regulations on internal control over financial reporting under Japanese law from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009. Designing and implementing an effective system of internal control capable of monitoring and managing our business and operations requires significant management and human resources and considerable costs. If we identify any material weaknesses in our internal control system, we may incur significant additional costs for remediating such weaknesses. In addition, if we adopt a new accounting system, we may be required to incur significant additional costs, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Transactions with counterparties in countries designated by the US Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and investors in the US and other countries to avoid doing business with us or investing in our shares. We, through our banking subsidiaries, engage in operations with entities in or affiliated with Iran and Syria, including transactions with entities owned or controlled by the Iranian or Syrian governments, and the banking subsidiary has a representative office in Iran. The US Department of State has designated Iran and Syria as “state sponsors of terrorism,” and US law generally prohibits US persons from doing business with such countries. Our activities with counterparties in or affiliated with Iran, Syria and other countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism are conducted in compliance in all material respects with both applicable Japanese and US regulations. Our operations with entities in Iran consist primarily of loans to Iranian financial institutions in the form of financing for petroleum projects and trade financing for general commercial purposes, as well as letters of credit and foreign exchange services. In addition, our operations relating to Syria are primarily foreign exchange services. We do not believe our operations relating to Iran and Syria are material to our business, financial condition and results of operations, as the loans outstanding to borrowers in or affiliated with Iran and Syria as of March 31, 2008 were approximately $410.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively, which together represented less than 0.1% of our total assets as of March 31, 2008. In addition, we receive deposits or hold assets on behalf of several individuals resident in Japan who are citizens of countries designated as state sponsor of terrorism. We are aware of initiatives by US governmental entities and US institutional investors, such as pension funds, to adopt or consider adopting laws, regulations or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with Iran and other countries identified as state sponsors of terrorism. It is possible that such initiatives may result in our being unable to gain or retain entities subject to such prohibitions as customers or as investors in our shares. In addition, depending on socio-political developments our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries. The above circumstances could have a significant adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Owning Our Shares Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be different from those under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. Our articles of incorporation, the regulations of our board of directors and the Company Law of Japan, or the Company Law (also known as the Corporation Act), govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders rights are different from those that would apply if we were not a Japanese corporation. Shareholders rights under Japanese law are different in some respects from shareholders rights under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction outside of Japan. For a detailed discussion of the relevant provisions under the Company Law and our articles of incorporation, see “Item 10.B. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 17 Table of Contents It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors, corporate auditors or other management members, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in US courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We are a joint stock company incorporated under the laws of Japan. Almost all of our directors, corporate auditors or other management members reside outside the United States. Many of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for US investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce, against us or these persons, judgments obtained in the US courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We believe that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of US courts, of claims predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Risks Related to Owning Our ADSs As a holder of ADSs, you have fewer rights than a shareholder and you must act through the depositary to exercise these rights. The rights of our shareholders under Japanese law to take actions such as voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian, is the record holder of the shares underlying the American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, a holder of ADSs may not be entitled to the same rights as a shareholder. In your capacity as an ADS holder, you are not able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights, except through the depositary. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may affect the US dollar value of our ADSs and dividends payable to holders of our ADSs. Market prices for our ADSs may fall if the value of the yen declines against the US dollar. In addition, the US dollar amount of cash dividends and other cash payments made to holders of our ADSs would be reduced if the value of the yen declines against the US dollar. 