Risk Factors.” 33 In May 2006, the NWS JV delivered its first cargo to the LNG terminal in Guangdong, China. Also with respect to NWS JV, we made a final investment decision for the fifth train in June 2005 following the successful production start-up of the fourth LNG producing train in 2004. The capacity of this fifth train is planned to be 4.2 million tonnes per annum and is scheduled to begin in the latter half of 2008. As of June 2006, construction of the fifth-train project is progressing as scheduled. In Qatar, the debottlenecking work on the existing LNG facilities was completed in May 2005 and production capacity has increased to 9.6 million tonnes per annum in 2006. These new LNG producing capacities will supply both existing and new customers. An “LNG producing train” is a set of facilities in a liquefaction plant to produce LNG from natural gas. “Debottlenecking” refers to additional investment and modification work on the existing LNG producing plants or trains to increase their production capacity by eliminating the bottleneck in existing plants or trains that restrict production capacity. In the Sakhalin II project, we hold a 25% interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda). Since 1999, seasonal oil production continued from the Molikpaq facility on the Astokhskoye field, offshore Sakhalin Island. In addition, Sakhalin Energy Investment Co., Ltd. announced on May 15, 2003, that it would begin the Phase II development of the Sakhalin II Project. This announcement marked the beginning of the full-scale development of the Piltun-Astokhskoye oil field aimed at year-round crude oil production, and the Lunskoye gas field, including construction of a two-train LNG plant in the south of Sakhalin Island for export to the Asia Pacific LNG markets based on long-term contracts. At its peak, the facility is expected to produce 60 million barrels per annum of crude oil and 9.6 million tonnes per annum of LNG. The total required funds for the Phase II development of the Sakhalin II Project is now estimated to be US$20 billion, double the original budget of US$10 billion, due to increased expenses related to changes in facility design and construction delays, as well as the rising procurement costs of labor and materials. Sakhalin Energy Investment Company has been making every effort to achieve the earliest possible start of LNG shipments, which is now scheduled in summer 2008, and to contain costs. Up to August 2006, we have seen the following developments: Ÿ The actual progress rate of the total project was about 76% as of end of June 2006. Ÿ Sakhalin Energy Investment Company also continued to progress the sale of the remaining unsold volumes of LNG. In June 2006, Tokyo Gas Co, Ltd. committed to purchasing additional volumes, taking overall sales of Sakhalin II LNG to 90% of designed production capacity. On September 18, the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation announced that it had made the decision to revoke its order issued in 2003 pertaining to the environmental approval of the Phase II Development of the Sakhalin II Project. While we can not definitely predict future development of this situation, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. will continue to work with the relevant authorities to resolve the issue. This business unit holds interests in other LNG projects which are under construction. We hold 8.5% interest in Equatorial Guinea LNG in Equatorial Guinea, which is expected to start production in the middle of 2007 with a production capacity of 3.4 million tonnes per annum. Through our subsidiary, Overseas Petroleum Corporation (Japan), we own a 1% interest in the Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia, which is expected to start production in 2008 with production capacity being 7.6 million tonnes per annum. Identifying, exploring and developing oil and gas reserve prospects are key factors to success in this area. Our principal strategic region for this business are Australia, South East Asia and the Middle East. During the year ended March 31, 2006, continuous near field exploration activities, together with water-flood operations, resulted in higher than budgeted oil production at the Block 9 oil fields in Oman by Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), and commercial production started at the Casino gas & condensate field offshore South Australia during February 2006 operated by Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia), and a final investment decision to develop the Tui area oil fields offshore North Island of New Zealand by Mitsui E&P New Zealand Limited (New Zealand) was made by the joint ventures. Mitsui E&P New Zealand Limited subsequently increased its participating interest in the joint venture from 12.5% to 35%. 34 In March 2004, Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia) acquired a 40% interest in each of WA-28-L and exploration block WA-271-P located in the North West Shelf area in Australia, which together contained three undeveloped oil fields, Enfield, Vincent, and Laverda. The development of Enfield Oil Field has progressed according to schedule and budget and commercial production started in July 2006 with designed capacity of 100,000 barrel per day. The final investment decision for Vincent Oil Field located in the same block as Enfield was made in March 2006 with total development cost of approximately U.S. $720 million, which is expected to start production in 2008. In April 2006, MitEnergy Upstream LLC (United States) was established by Mitsui, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. and Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., to acquire from Pogo Producing Company (“Pogo”) 50% share of an undivided interest in Pogo’s oil and gas leasehold assets offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. The purchase price amounted to ¥53.2 billion. More than half of total 85 blocks are currently producing oil and gas, with an approximate daily production capacity of up to 12,000 barrels of oil equivalent, thus we expect a relatively short payback period. In May 2006, commercial production started at the Cliff Head oil field offshore Western Australia, and commissioning work started at the BassGas project (Yolla gas & Condensate field, offshore Victoria) both by Wandoo Petroleum Pty. (Australia). Together with our associated company Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan), we continue putting a high priority on expanding our oil and gas equity reserves. In March 2006, Mitsui agreed with Mitsui Engineering & Shipping Co., Ltd. to purchase 6% of the total issued shares of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. of which Mitsui held a 44.35% share prior to concluding the agreement. Mitsui initially purchased a 3% share at that time, and will purchase the remaining 3% share by March 2007, making Mitsui’s share in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. 50.35% of the total issued shares. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. has been actively engaged in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production projects in Thailand and neighboring Southeast Asian countries as well as in the Middle East. For example, in June 2005, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. acquired Pogo’s Thailand assets, a 46.34% interest in the B8/32 Concession and the adjacent Block 9A Concession located in the Gulf of Thailand, jointly with a partner in Thailand. The purchase price was U.S.$820 million, of which Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. contributed approximately 40%. As a result, our oil and gas reserves increased to 688 million barrels of oil equivalent (“BOE”) at the end of March 2006, after offsetting the decrease through production of 32 million BOE during the year ended March 31, 2005. As of March 31, 2006, the proportion of proved developed reserves to proved developed and undeveloped reserves is approximately 28%, a relatively low level. See “Item 4.D. Property, Plants and Equipment—Oil and Gas Producing Activities” and “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 20-F. We are also exploring various emerging business opportunities in the energy industry. Mitsui expects bio-ethanol to be a crucial renewable fuel in the future, and we expect world demand to rise. In April 2006, Mitsui reached an agreement with Petróleo Brasileiro SA (“Petrobras”) to jointly carry out a feasibility study for promoting the production of bio-ethanol and related products in Brazil and for the marketing of such products in the international market. In the same context, we are involved in the electricity retail business in Japan through our wholly owned subsidiary, GTF Green Power Co., Ltd. (Japan), which has succeeded the business from our associated company, GTF Institute Co., Ltd. (Japan). We are exploring new business opportunities, including biomass energy, and intend to attempt power generation using renewable biomass fuel under GTF Green Power. Furthermore, we are promoting an oil sand production venture through a 4% share in Canada Oil Sands Co., Ltd. The international markets for crude oil and petroleum products are highly competitive and volatile, as these commodities are traded on exchanges such as NYMEX in New York, IPE in London, and TOCOM in Tokyo. In 35 the worldwide trading business, we compete with international oil companies, national oil companies in oil producing countries and oil trading companies, including Japanese trading companies. In maintaining our competitive edge under these circumstances, it is critical for us to maintain good relationships with suppliers and customers as well as to mitigate price risks by utilizing hedging tools such as the futures markets. We are also active in seeking to secure long-term offtake contracts of petroleum and gas products such as fuel oil and condensate to be sold to Japanese utility and refining companies. Long-term offtake contracts are sales and purchase contracts for various commodities, such as crude oil and petroleum products, entered into by suppliers and buyers, or “offtakers”, of such commodities for one or more years. Concurrent with the offtake contracts, the sellers of such commodities usually enter into financing arrangements whereby the sales proceeds from such commodities are used to finance a related project. For example, on March 25, 2003, the Energy Business Unit entered into an offtake contract with PERUSAHAAN PERTAMBANGAN MINYAK DAN GAS BUMINEGRA (“PERTAMINA”), the national oil and gas company of Indonesia, and committed itself to “lift and pay” for petroleum products for a period of time. Concurrently, our Infrastructure Projects Business Unit was engaged in the structuring and the arrangement of debt financing with various lenders to provide a U.S.$200 million loan to PERTAMINA which would be utilized to build a facility at its existing Balongan Refinery to produce about 50,000 barrels per day of unleaded gasoline. PERTAMINA will supply us with the petroleum products from its existing refineries and the proceeds from the sales of these products will be used as the source of debt service for the U.S.$200 million loan. In the domestic refining and marketing business for oil and gas related products, we have faced severe competition from domestic oil refining and distributing companies due to the structural surplus situation for refining capacity in Japan. Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), our core associated company and subsidiaries for domestic oil and gas refining and marketing business activities are in relatively sound financial situations owing to the extensive restructuring of inefficient assets and work force, and are pursuing efficient and competitive operations. Japanese Government environmental regulations stipulate that sulfur content must be reduced to 10 parts per million (“ppm”) beginning in 2007 for diesel oil and in 2008 for gasoline. Major Japanese oil refineries and distributors voluntarily started to supply 10 ppm standard products beginning in January 2005, before the restriction came into effect. To maintain a competitive position in the market, Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. elected to invest in new equipment to strengthen its sulfur removal capabilities. Transformation of its diesel oil equipment was completed in April 2005 and gasoline equipment is scheduled to be completed in March 2007. With respect to oil and gas exploration and production (“E&P”) business, in our view, the key to success is to constantly increase, or at a minimum maintain, certain volumes of oil and gas reserve prospects as is the common practice for international oil and gas companies. However, despite our management’s intensive focus on expanding our E&P business activities, our oil and gas reserves are still far less than that of the national oil companies of oil producing countries and major oil and gas companies. Other Japanese companies that participate in E&P activities do not commonly disclose their proved oil and gas reserves. Based on the limited proved oil and gas reserves information of other Japanese E&P companies that are publicly available, we believe that we generally have higher amounts of proved oil and gas reserves as compared to most Japanese E&P companies. Accordingly, we believe that we are competitive with other Japanese E&P companies. With respect to our LNG related operations, we have entered into various long term sales contracts, based on “take or pay” conditions, with customers such as Japanese utility companies. We believe the worldwide LNG business has been undergoing gradual structural changes since the late 1990’s as follows: Ÿ Exploration and development of natural gas and production of LNG require significant capital and financial commitments. Moreover, this involves a broad range of logistical and technological expertise, including linking suppliers to distributors and consumers while developing plants in order to efficiently extract and liquefy the natural gas for transportation and then re-gasifying the LNG. Up until the mid-1990’s, purchase commitments by buyers with full “take or pay” obligations for a period of 20 years or more had been an essential element for equity holders, distributors and sellers of LNG 36 projects to make the capital and financial commitment to build LNG production facilities. These equity investors had resisted making a capital and financial commitment without being able to fully secure stable long-term purchase commitments. In recent years, however, equity holders of several LNG projects have been making investments without fully securing long-term purchase commitments from buyers. Ÿ Due to technological innovations in the last decade, LNG producers have successfully reduced capital costs with respect to the construction of LNG production plants and LNG vessels. Technological innovation has also enabled the producers to increase the design capacities of LNG production plants and LNG vessels allowing them to benefit from economies of scale. These technological developments allow LNG to be more competitive with other types of energy sources. Ÿ In response to the needs of LNG buyers, the LNG spot market has been expanding, whereby the percentage of spot trades in worldwide LNG contracts rose to 10.6% in 2005 from 1.3% in 1992. Ÿ In addition to the traditional core LNG markets in Japan, the Republic of Korea and Taiwan, the market is rapidly expanding in Europe and the United States. At the same time, new markets have been emerging in countries such as China and India due to an increasing demand for electricity. Considering the sizable economies of these countries and the increasing popularity of LNG as a “clean energy” source, the LNG market has been developing rapidly worldwide. The recent structural changes in the LNG industry, including those mentioned above, continue to have a mixed effect on our business operations. For example, due to the reduction in capital costs from technological innovations, the emergence of the spot LNG market and other factors, not only has the LNG industry become more competitive among existing energy-related companies, but it has also seen an increase of new entrants. Foods & Retail Segment The Foods & Retail Segment consists of one business unit, the Foods & Retail Business Unit, which has 29 subsidiaries including MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), Wilsey Foods Inc. (United States), Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan), Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) and Retail System Service Co., Ltd. (Japan); and 14 associated companies including Mikuni Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Japan) and KADOYA SESAME MILLS INCORPORATED (Japan). Gross profit for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥79.9 billion or 9.8% of our consolidated totals. This segment recorded a net loss of ¥3.2 billion or minus 1.6% of our consolidated total. The Foods & Retail Business Unit engages in: Ÿ Import and domestic/offshore trade of wheat, barley, soybeans, corn, fats and oils, raw sugar, and rice; Ÿ Import and domestic/offshore trade of processed foods such as canned products, frozen foods and condiments, liquor, beverages such as coffee, tea and juice, dairy products, and foodstuffs such as marine products, animal products and vegetables; Ÿ Import and domestic trade of packaging, wrapping materials, and miscellaneous daily goods; Ÿ Manufacturer of beverages, beverage ingredients, boilers, and sugar-based products; Ÿ Domestic distribution and sales through the nationwide wholesaler subsidiary MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan); and Ÿ Support services, such as supply chain management including logistics management, and product planning and development for retailers. The Foods & Retail Business Unit is involved in a wide range of fields in a value chain of foods, from the global procurement of food material and production of food products to the traffic and wholesale of foods, packaging materials, and sundry goods. 37 To secure a source of foodstuffs and a stable supply we purchase grain, oilseeds, and raw sugar from the United States, Canada, Brazil, and Australia and sell them in Japan and other Asian countries. We sell coffee to Japan and the United States from production areas primarily in Brazil. We purchase raw materials for beverages, such as tea leaves and juice, marine products, animal products, and dairy products from major supply sources around the world and deliver them primarily to Japan. We are also engaged in domestic broiler chicken raising, processing, and sales through a subsidiary DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan). We have positioned the United States as our main base of operations and the core of our global food supply strategy. In collaboration with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., this business unit has developed and maintained the following buinesses: Ÿ In the cereals and grains area, we have formed a joint venture, United Harvest, LLC, with CHS Inc., an agricultural cooperative in the United States. Our exports of wheat from the United States are among the best, amounting to approximately four million tons per annum. Ÿ Ventura Foods, LLC, another joint venture formed with CHS Inc., is one of the largest suppliers of cooking oils for the institutional market in the United States. We invest in this company through WILSEY FOODS, INC. In food-manufacturing operations, during the year ended March 31, 2004, we increased our equity stake in Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), which is one of the major manufacturers of tea leaves in Japan, and made it our subsidiary with the intention of positioning it as a core company in our beverage business, realizing synergies with our existing network for procurement of raw materials and domestic distribution. Competition varies depending on products in the upstream areas of grain, feed, sugar and food materials, but is generally based on price or quality of products. Many Japanese general trading companies, international producers, and traders are competitors to varying degrees with respect to most of the food products we handle. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) plays a vital role in this unit’s wholesale operations. It is expanding its business activities to include general merchandise stores, supermarkets, convenience stores, and catering and restaurant chains throughout Japan, focusing on processed food and liquor transactions. The Foods & Retail Business Unit is developing and strengthening its nationwide distribution chain focused on MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., including investments and business tie-ups from the parent company with regional wholesalers. In the foodstuffs distribution field, the needs for reduced distribution costs, secure temperature-controlled supply, and faster delivery are becoming more sophisticated and diverse. To meet these changes, the Foods & Retail Business Unit is engaging in wholesale transactions with and providing support services to retailers. These include: Ÿ inventory management and procurement of foodstuffs, processed foods, and packaging based on sales information obtained from retailers; and Ÿ proposals for developing new products and services, and support in the form of traceability for securing food safety. In April 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui agreed with KOKUBU & CO., LTD., a major Japanese food wholesaler, to form a business alliance, which includes support by KOKUBU & CO., LTD. for improvement of management and operations of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and cooperation in product categories to be reinforced by both companies. Mitsui maintains a comprehensive alliance with Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan’s nationwide diversified retailer. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. operates shopping malls, general merchandise stores, supermarkets, convenience stores such as 7-Eleven, restaurant chains such as Denny’s, and financial service companies such as the IYBank, and opened SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) in April 2004. 38 Mitsui offers the following supply services to Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. through our domestic subsidiaries, such as MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., Retail System Service Co., Ltd. and VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. Ÿ supply sundry goods and consumables, such as processed food, liquor, fast food, toys, and games, to more than ten thousand 7-Eleven stores in Japan; Ÿ supply food materials, containers, and packaging materials to vendors who supply boxed lunches, pre-cooked meals, and processed food to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; Ÿ supply various temperature-controlled products to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; and Ÿ supply cold products through the affiliate company Beijing Sanxin Refrigeration Logistics Co., Ltd. to 7-Eleven stores in Beijing. To strengthen our business ties, the Foods & Retail Business Unit purchased ¥10 billion of Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. shares and ¥40 billion of Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. shares. The Ito-Yokado Group established a new holding company, Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., on September 1, 2005, and the shares that we acquired are equal to roughly 1.2% of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. outstanding shares. Our competitors in the wholesale and retail businesses are mainly general trading companies in Japan. In the traffic area, our competitors are also traffic companies that operate third-party logistics. In domestic wholesaling, there is fierce competition among suppliers, and we are making efforts to increase revenues and reduce logistics costs by achieving better economies of scale through mergers and acquisitions from time to time. Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment This segment is comprised of the Lifestyle Business Unit; the Consumer Service Business Unit; and the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥128.4 billion or 15.7% and ¥17.5 billion or 8.6% of our consolidated total, respectively. This segment owns 44 subsidiaries including: Ÿ Mitsui Bussan Inter-fashion Ltd. (Japan) in the Lifestyle Business Unit; Ÿ Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. (Japan), MBK Real Estate Ltd. (United States), Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) and CABLENET SAITAMA CO., LTD. (Japan) in the Consumer Service Business Unit; and Ÿ Telepark Corp. (Japan), NextCom K.K. (Japan), TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan) and Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) in the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. And it has 42 associated companies including: Ÿ ALCANTARA S.p.A. (Italy), Nippon Brunswick Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Lifestyle Business Unit; Ÿ QVC JAPAN INC. (Japan), AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Consumer Service Business Unit; and Ÿ Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) in the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. Lifestyle Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Textile & Fashion Unit and the former General Merchandise Unit were integrated into a single business unit named the Lifestyle Business Unit. Together with 11 subsidiaries and 18 associated companies, the Lifestyle Business Unit is engaged in domestic, import, export and offshore trading and manufacturing of the following materials and products, as well as related services and investments: Ÿ apparel products, including development and manufacturing of those products; and brand merchandize-related businesses including equity participation in joint ventures with brand owners and brand licensing; 39 Ÿ textile raw materials and fabrics; and technical collaboration in these products field; Ÿ non-apparel products such as interior and living items and consumer goods; and Ÿ industrial materials such as pulp and paper. In the fashion field, we actively provide innovative services to accommodate new developments in the fashion and apparel markets. Our main business activities are divided into two categories: Ÿ original equipment manufacturing (“OEM”) business for domestic apparel manufacturers; and Ÿ business transactions involving branded luxury and accessible luxury products from Europe and the United States for the Japanese market as well as brand licensing businesses in Japan. In the field of apparel and OEM, we play active roles at various stages in the value chain, including design, planning and procurement of materials as well as sewing and processing. To meet our goals of minimizing costs and enhancing quality, we work with apparel makers and related companies to select the optimal materials and processing centers from the wide variety of choices available in Japan, Europe, the Americas, Asia and other areas. We regard China as an important manufacturing base and also a significant consumer market as well. To further strengthen our OEM business capabilities and our provision of support services, we utilize our subsidiaries and associated companies such as Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (Japan) and Alta Moda International Ltd. (Hong Kong), both of which offer well-organized manufacturing process management led by experts hired specially for that role. With respect to brand businesses in Japan, we are engaged in both license and import business transactions involving internationally well-known branded merchandise from Europe and the United States such as Burberry, Paul Stuart, Trussardi, Valentino, Max Mara, Etro and Juicy Couture. In the case of license agreements we enter into with the respective European and American licensors, we sublicense certain rights including, but not limited to, marketing and manufacturing rights to apparel makers and wholesalers, while we retain the exclusive distributorship rights. We, if necessary, establish joint venture subsidiaries with such European and American brand owners to control license arrangements or to distribute imported products in order to establish well controlled nationwide sales network composed of wholesalers, department stores, specialty-stores or our own retail outlets. In brand businesses, our competitors are other general trading companies and apparel specialty traders including Itochu Corporation and Mitsubishi Corporation. The keys to maintain our competitiveness are to raise the value of the brand which we promote in the market and to increase the number of valuable brands we deal with. In consumer goods fields, this business unit is engaged in the trading, production, processing and distribution of various goods such as general household and consumer goods, light industrial machinery and supplies, medical equipment and office automation systems as set forth below: Ÿ We supply a wide range of top-quality consumer goods imported from around the world, which include high-quality Sonicare ultrasonic toothbrushes, Brunswick bowling equipment and systems, MAGLITE handy flashlights, and top-of-the-line Lladro porcelain; Ÿ We trade woodchip and pulp, furthermore, we develop several afforestation projects in Australia, some of which are jointly promoted with several Japanese partners including paper manufacturing companies; and 40 Ÿ As for paper and ceramic products, we closely partner with Japanese manufacturers and participate in joint venture operations in China to sell products there and export them from China, as well as handling products in and from Japan. In the business area of consumer goods such as sporting and leisure goods, continuous changes in lifestyles require new business models which reflect such changes. Accordingly, we seek to locate new materials and new suppliers, arrange effective distribution methods and develop attractive brand names. Such efforts are realized through a combination of our human and organizational network and industrial expertise. Consumer Service Business Unit Major business areas of this business unit, including 18 subsidiaries and 16 associated companies, consist of the following: Ÿ real estate development including construction, sale and leasing of houses, condominiums, commercial facilities, senior housing and office buildings and related construction material businesses; Ÿ media-related service business including broadcasting, content service, television shopping channels, software service, amusement business and Internet-based marketing service; Ÿ outsourcing services including catering, uniform rental, building maintenance, and temporary personnel service, child care service; Ÿ medical service and health care related businesses such as nursing care-related services, clinic facilities and medical related information service. Real estate development businesses include the following activities: Ÿ Mitsui engages in development of condominium and commercial property in the Tokyo metropolitan area. Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) has been engaged in construction and marketing of high-end home units under the Mitsui House brand, however, due to shrinking market in Japan, it decided to withdraw from the business in July 2006. Ÿ MBK Real Estate Ltd. (United States) handles the development and sale of unit houses and senior housing properties in the California market, as well as commercial properties on the West Coast of the United States. Ÿ Our associated company Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) supplies construction materials in the domestic market. Ÿ In March 2005 we jointly established Mall & SC Development, Inc. (Japan) with Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. to pursue the development and management of shopping malls and shopping centers. In the media-related service business, as a consumer service and content provider, we provide television shopping services operated by an associated company, QVC Japan, Inc. (Japan), which was established jointly with QVC Inc. of the United States; and an entertainment and educational channel for children and parents operated by Kids Station Inc. (Japan), our subsidiary, both of which are delivered over cable or digital satellite broadcast networks. In the outsourcing businesses, AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan), an associated company jointly established with ARAMARK Corporation in the United States, has provided a variety of service in Japan since 1976. Major parts of its businesses are food service and support services for companies and schools as well as those for hospitals and social welfare facilities. In December 2005, it acquired a 100% share of MEFOS Ltd, a provider of hospital food services, which strengthened its business base in the market where competition is increasingly fierce. Moreover, it is engaged in refreshment and support services for offices, and provides services of design, cleaning and facilities management, linen supply, uniform rental and contract staffing to dining facilities. We are in the process of cultivating new opportunities in medical services through our subsidiary, Medivance Co. (Japan), Ltd. In August 2005, we also founded an associated company venture with 41 Recruit Co., Ltd., which provides a healthcare information service on the Internet. This segment also made 5% equity participation in and formed an alliance with Duskin Co., Ltd., which is engaged in cleaning services, food services and nursing care services nationwide. Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit The Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit is involved in information technology services and solutions. These are delivered through the unit’s 15 subsidiaries and 8 associated companies established in the following five major fields: Ÿ network and systems integration (“NI/ SI”) businesses; Ÿ mobile communication businesses including sales agency of mobile handset and telecommunications lines; and development and sales of mobile content; Ÿ business process outsourcing services including enterprise information management and call-center services; Ÿ semiconductors related businesses including sales agency for semiconductor chips, semiconductor manufacturing equipments and semiconductor inspection equipments; and Ÿ display related businesses including export and trading of flat-panel displays and parts. In the field of NI/SI businesses, NextCom K.K. (Japan), a subsidiary and Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), an associated company both listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, provide integrated solutions to a wide range of customers. Ÿ NextCom K.K. provides services, such as consultation, designing, building and operation of network systems including self-developed systems, to a wide range of business enterprises including telecommunications carriers, government offices, local municipalities and public bodies engaged in healthcare and education. NextCom K.K. is also engaged in planning and development of network systems which are equipped with voice recognition technology and typically used by call centers. It is also involved in high-secruity systems, for example automatic billing systems used by pay-TV broadcasters. In December 2004, following the merger of NextCom K.K., a former associated company, BSI Co., Ltd., a software development and marketing subsidiary, and ADAM NET Ltd., a data telecommunications equipment marketing subsidiary, NextCom K.K. remained as the surviving company among them and became a subsidiary. Ÿ Nihon Unisys, Ltd. is engaged in designing and building of computer systems, business process outsourcing services, support services and other peripheral services as well as sales of computer systems, including both hardware and software. These services are provided to business enterprises in the financial, manufacturing and distribution and public sectors. Mitsui owns a 32.4% voting interest in Nihon Unisys, Ltd. as of March 2006. Unisys Corporation in the United States, which formerly held the same equity stake as Mitsui, sold its entire shareholding in Nihon Unisys, Ltd. in March 2006, and Mitsui has since been its single largest shareholder. We are promoting various mobile communication businesses through alliances with domestic cell phone service providers and manufacturers. Telepark Corp. (Japan) is a core subsidiary in this field. Telepark Corp. is one of the major agencies in Japan for cell phone subscription as well as a retailer and distributor of cell phone handsets. It sold 3.2 million cell phones for the year ended March 31, 2006. It has also acted as agent for subscription of fixed telecommunications lines, including broadband connections. Telepark Corp. is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Telepark Corp. was established in 2001 following the merger of three Mitsui subsidiaries that were established in 1990s and engaged in sales agency of telecommunications lines and related businesses. The market for business process outsourcing services has been expanding in Japan. We have positioned this market as a crucial business field and have promoted businesses through a subsidiary, TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan), and an associated company, Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan). TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan), 42 which has been engaged in distribution of information processing devices such as optical character readers (“OCR”) and information input devices, has recently focused on enterprise information management such as customer information input, management and operation. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) is one of the Japan’s major providers of call centers and related outsourcing services. It had been our subsidiary when we established it along with contributions from other eleven investors. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. later went public on the over-the-counter market and is now listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Our voting interest is 34.3%. In the field of electronics products, Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) acts as a sales agent for semiconductor related devices, semiconductor manufacturing equipment and semiconductor inspection equipment. In recent years, particularly, Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) has focused on providing semiconductor related products and services to Japanese customers who are shifting their production bases to China. We have also been engaged in export and trading of flat-panel displays and parts. We set up a joint venture company in Shanghai to market the strategic products of SVA (GROUP) CO., LTD., a Chinese electronics manufacturer, in China and worldwide. This business unit is dependent on the operating results of our subsidiaries and associated companies, most of which are located in Japan, where technological development is rapid and competition is fierce. Our important function involves business incubation of IT related products and services, which is ordinarily promoted along with market development and expansion as is the case with Telepark Corp. and Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. This business unit acknowledges that businesses represented by the concepts of “convergence of telecommunication and broadcasting” and “outsourcing services” are gaining importance on the back of advancing communications technology and increasing demand for more sophisticated content. From this viewpoint, the business strategies of this business unit include such ones close to those extended by the Consumer Service Business Unit. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment The Logistics & Financial Markets Segment is engaged in transportation and logistics services, insurance and financial business in Japan and abroad. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥51.4 billion or 6.3% and ¥13.4 billion or 6.6% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment is composed of the Financial Markets Business Unit and the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, and has 36 subsidiaries including: Ÿ in the Financial Markets Business Unit, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States), Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. (Japan); and Ÿ in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan), Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan), Tri-Net (Japan) Inc. (Japan). This segment has 5 associated companies including Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan) and Quintiles Transnational Japan K.K. (Japan) in the Financial Markets Business Unit. Financial Markets Business Unit This business unit has 24 subsidiaries and 2 associated companies and is engaged in the following business activities: Ÿ dealing in derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange and financial futures, and trading of and investment in debt and equity securities; Ÿ trading in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities; Ÿ financial equity investments including principal investment and venture capital operation; Ÿ real estate investment trust (“REIT”) related businesses; 43 Ÿ development, origination and sales of financial products, investment in and portfolio management of financial products; and Ÿ leasing businesses Mitsui and its subsidiaries such as Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) are engaged in trading and brokerage in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities. We are also engaged in sales and marketing of various derivative and financial instruments of our own development to investors and market participants. Mitsui & Co., Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), which we established in March 2002, enjoyed growth in derivative trading operations, mainly of crude oil and natural gas related commodities. Japan Alternative Investment Co., Ltd. (Japan) began operations in April 2002, acting as placement agent for alternative investment products, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and commodity funds. Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. (Japan) is a domestic subsidiary engaged in the future commodities brokering including precious metals and other commodities such as foods and oil products. In June 2004, Mitsui and Quintiles Transnational Corp. agreed on Mitsui taking a 20% shareholding in Quintiles Transnational Japan K.K. (Japan), in a transaction designed to accelerate the growth of Quintiles Transnational Japan K.K. Quintiles Transnational Corp. is a major worldwide company, providing outsourcing services in the pharmaceutical industry. This transaction fit well with our goal of investing in first-class international companies in the healthcare and outsourcing service industries and, in particular, enhancing those companies’ Japanese operations. This business unit is also engaged in venture capital business through subsidiaries such as MVC Corporation (Japan). In July 2004, this business unit formed Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd. (Japan), as an asset management company for REITs that specialize in the management of investments in warehouses and distribution centers. In May 2005, we completed the listing of Japan’s first logistics facilities related REIT, Japan Logistics Fund Inc. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. This business unit has 40.63% participating interest in Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan), a leasing company with its strengths in leasing of information-processing equipments and large scale equipment, as well as industrial machinery, aircrafts and ocean vessels. Transportation Logistics Business Unit The Transportation Logistics Business Unit provides sophisticated, high value added logistics services to customers leveraging its longstanding experience in offering such services groupwide. This business unit also seeks the development of new business domains through integrating logistics, financial and information technology. Together with 12 subsidiaries and 3 associated companies, this business unit is engaged in the following business activities: Ÿ international and domestic transport services including transportation of plants and other special cargos, tramper shipping, and airfreight; Ÿ warehousing and port services; operation, construction and management of warehouses and harbor facilities; Ÿ insurance agency and insurance consultation; Ÿ solutions services for logistics, including SCM; and Ÿ establishment and operation of REITs which invest in logistics facilities. In the international and domestic transport services field, we have established 5 core subsidiaries including Tri-Net (Japan) Inc., which cover our operations in Japan, the Americas, Europe, South East Asia, and China, respectively. Each of those subsidiaries collaborates with the Head Office and overseas trading subsidiaries 44 worldwide, and provides international transportation services mainly using marine containers. They also provide international combined transportation services by integrating land, sea and air transportation . In the tramper business, they provide transportation services for power and chemical plant projects and bulky cargoes such as coal, grain and fertilizers. We have been making investments to expand our logistics businesses in the BRICs countries, the Middle East and other emerging markets. For example, in January 2006 we acquired a 25% equity stake in BALtrans Holdings, Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) which is listed in Hong Kong Stock Exchange and maintains 14 distribution bases in Main Land China. In the field of warehousing, distribution and port service related business within Japan, this business unit has Mitsui Bussan Logistics Co., Ltd. as a holding company for three domestic subsidiaries, KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD. (Japan), Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan) and TOSHIN SOKO KAISHA, LTD. (Japan). For example, Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. conducts joint operations with a domestic specialty store retailer of private label apparel for outsourced production and inventory management. It provides information processing functions so that its customers optimize their logistics transactions. This business has a subsidiary, Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan), as an insurance agency. In addition, the business unit has acquired insurance companies for captive insurance and operates subsidiaries which are engaged in this business field, including Insurance Company of Trinet (USA), Inc. This business unit also maintains consulting services on a variety of insurance issues, by taking advantage of the experience and know-how in risk management of this business unit. In collaboration with the Financial Markets Business Unit, this business unit promotes logistics-related real estate property REITs. This unit intends to increase the assets for such REIT programs, seeking opportunities for the development of facilities, brokerage in properties and tenants. Americas Segment The Americas Segment trades in various commodities and conducts related business led by overseas trading subsidiaries in North, Central and South America. Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., or Mitsui U.S.A., manages the business of the segment as the center of the regional strategy. Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Americas Business Unit was formed which consists of those trading subsidiaries operating in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated an authority of operations within the region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥61.6 billion or 7.5% and ¥12.6 billion or 6.2% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment consists of 9 trading subsidiaries including Mitsui U.S.A., Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd., Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A., Mitsui Chile Ltda., and 30 other subsidiaries owned mainly by Mitsui U.S.A., including Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc., Portac Inc., Channel Terminal Corp., Westport Petroleum Inc., Mitsui Tubular Products, LLC. and Mitsui Comtek Corp. and 2 associated companies. Mitsui U.S.A. is our largest overseas subsidiary, and carries out many diversified business activities together with our subsidiaries and associated companies, in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office in Japan. Mitsui U.S.A. has been leading our entry in the U.S. market, and we believe that Mitsui U.S.A. is one of the major exporters of American products. Mitsui U.S.A. has its corporate head office in New York City. Other offices are located in Cleveland, Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles, Nashville, Portland, San Francisco, Seattle and Washington, D.C. Business activities of Mitsui U.S.A.’s major operating divisions are as follows: Ÿ The Iron & Steel Products Division maintains alliances with steel mills, steel processors, and customers in the U.S. and other countries. Working closely with solution providers, it specializes in SCM of steel products, 45 manages inventory and process arrangements. This division has been focusing on business activities through subsidiaries such as Mitsui Steel, Inc. for steel product sales and demand chain management (“DCM”) services, Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc which holds Mi-Tech Steel Inc., a steel service center, PK U.S.A., Inc., an automotive steel stamping, Hannibal Industries, Inc., a steel tube and pallet rack manufacturing operator, Champions Pipe & Supply, a pipe distributor, and MTP LLC, a pipe sales entity. Ÿ The Iron & Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Division specializes in iron and steel raw materials, coal, primary aluminum, aluminum alloy, copper cathode, and non-ferrous metals. The division is supported by relationships with subsidiaries jointly held with the Head Office, for example, Raw Materials Development Co., Ltd., in which the division has an equity share of 20%. Ÿ The Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Division deals in power, energy, transportation, and industrial and infrastructure projects in the Americas through close coordination with the Head Office. In addition, subsidiaries such as Hydro Capital Corp. for waste water treatment projects in Mexico and MIT Wind Power, Inc. for wind power generation in Texas are engaged in this business field. Ÿ The Machinery Division deals in motor vehicles, ship and marine projects, aircraft and construction and industrial machinery. The Division works closely with United Auto Group, Hino Motors, Chevron, Modec International, Embraer, JetBlue and Komatsu. Particularly, its activities are focused on investment in distribution & retails of automobile and construction machinery, outdoor power equipment, newbuilding ship tonnage provider to oil major and shipping companies, and aircraft leasing for growing regional airlines. Ÿ The Organic Chemicals Division and the Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Division are engaged in the domestic and international trade of various organic and inorganic chemicals and chemical intermediates, plastic resins, compounds and final products, pharmaceutical intermediates, food additives, fertilizer and crop protection chemicals, and petrochemicals. For example, this division has a subsidiary, Channel Terminal Corp., which is engaged in the chemical tank leasing business. Recent development of this division toward a new business is an acquisition of CornerStone Research & Development Inc., which focuses on processing and packaging of healthcare foods and suppliments. Ÿ The Energy Division specializes in the global trading of petroleum products, including crude oil, heavy oil and petroleum coke, as well as the importation of LNG. This division has a subsidiary, Westport Petroleum, Inc., in which Mitsui U.S.A. has 65.0% equity share. The remaining share is owned by the Head office. Westport Petroleum, Inc. is engaged in sales, trading and commercial and operational services to the energy industry with respect to pipeline and cargo trading of petroleum products throughout the United States and major international energy markets. These transactions by Westport Petroleum, Inc. account for a significant portion of our revenues from sales of products groupwide. Ÿ The Foods and Retail division deals in grain, coffee, foods materials and other foods products. This division has a subsidiary, United Grain Corp, which forms United Harvest, LLC, a joint venture with CHS Inc. for export facility operations for wheat and barley, and also has 20% minority interest in WILSEY FOODS INC. See also “Foods &Retail Business Unit” for business collaboration with CHS Inc. Additionally, Mitsui Foods Inc. is specialized in the import food distribution business. Ÿ The Life commerce division focuses on consumer-oriented business development. This division has a subsidiary, Portac, Inc., a lumber mill, which produces dimension lumber and specialty items for U.S consumption and export. In other areas, the division has an equity share in MBK Real Estate Ltd., a real estate subsidiary jointly held with the Head Office and engaged in development and homebuilding services. Europe Segment The Europe Segment trades in various commodities and conducts related businesses led by overseas trading subsidiaries in Europe and Africa. Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC (“Mitsui Europe”) is authorized to manage the business of this segment as the center of its regional strategy. In addition, this segment carries out diversified business activities in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office. Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Europe Business Unit was formed which 46 consists of those trading subsidiaries in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated an authority for operations within the region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥22.4 billion or 2.7% and ¥4.9 billion or 2.4% of our consolidated totals, respectively. As of March 31, 2006, this segment consisted of 10 trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui Europe, Mitsui & Co. UK PLC, Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH, 6 subsidiaries and 6 associated companies. Mitsui Europe, our wholly-owned subsidiary with its head office in London, manages the overall business activities in Western Europe, Africa, Central, Eastern Europe and Turkey through its 9 operating subsidiaries, 10 branch offices and liaison offices. Mitsui Europe collaborates with our subsidiaries and associated companies of other operating segments. In April 2005, this segment reorganized its internal structure. Before the change, each of those operating subsidiaries independently reported to the Managing Director of Mitsui Europe, with the result that their business plans and operations tended to be limited to specific countries. In order to accelerate business development based on a product strategy that encompasses the whole of Europe, this segment introduced a Business Division System within Europe, in which Divisional Operating Officers oversee operations by products and services in the region and directly report to Managing Director of Mitsui Europe. Recently, the major parts of business in this segment have been sales and trading in steel products, chemicals and machinery. For example, this segment provided assistance services for SCM of steel products procured by Norsk Hydro ASA. In the chemical business, this segment has been engaged in sales and trade in various chemical products and materials supported by our global network and relationship with large scale manufactures including Bayer Aktiengesellschaft. In machinery business, for Mitsui’s worldwide power plant and industrial plant and transportation projects, this segment has provided assistance service in collaboration with European manufacturers such as Siemens Aktiengesellschaft. Over the years, in Central and Eastern Europe, we have established trading subsidiaries and representative offices to expand business opportunities in the region, and have continuously participated in joint ventures, mainly with Japanese manufactures. In connection with the enlargement of European Union, Japanese automobile, electric and chemical manufactures are rushing to set up operations in the region. We are collaborating with them by taking advantage of our existing business bases. During the year ended March 31, 2006, we entered a joint operation with Arcelor S.A., a European steel maker, which was merged to Arcelor and Mittal Steel Company N.V, to supply steel sheet to Japanese automobile and automobile parts manufacturers. Asia Segment In order to develop new business opportunities emerging with the development of network economies based around China, the ASEAN countries and India, we introduced an Asian Regional Managing Directorship system. Broad authority and responsibility to manage our businesses throughout non-Japan Asia is delegated to the Regional Managing Director, Asia starting in the year ended March 31, 2006. Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Asia Business Unit was formed and consists of the trading subsidiaries, branches and liaison offices in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated an authority for operation within this region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥27.4 billion or 3.4% and ¥9.3 billion or 4.6% of our consolidated totals, respectively. China China has been a focus of recent global attention, with 9.9% and 10.1% growth in gross domestic product in 2005 and 2004, respectively, as a result of its accession to the WTO and a growing reputation as an efficient and 47 cost effective manufacturer of goods. We have been increasing our operations in, and shifting management resources to, Greater China, which includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, in order to expand and strengthen our business operations involving products such as automobiles, consumer products, IT, electronics, energy and metals, while reinforcing our transportation and logistics services. Our presence in China is comprised of ten local subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd., an investing company in Beijing and six subsidiaries in China’s bonded areas including Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. as well as Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. In addition, we have established representative offices in 13 cities in China as of March 2006. In September 2005, Mitsui received approval from the Chinese Ministry of Commerce to establish three wholly owned trading companies, permitting us to conduct import and export and wholesale trade domestically within China, which would enable us to trade in a broader range of products, including valueadded services in finance and logistics. Thus, Mitsui & Co. (China) Trading Ltd. and Mitsui & Co. (Guangdong) Ltd. were established in 2005 and started operations. Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has made investments jointly with the business units of the Head Office in critical joint ventures in China. Among others, we place a high priority on establishment of logistic network within China. For example: Ÿ In March 2003, we entered into a comprehensive strategic alliance with China Postal Logistics Co., Ltd. Through this alliance, we are in a position to utilize the facilities and distribution networks of China’s postal service, the China State Post Bureau. Ÿ Mitsui International Logistics and Trade (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., in which Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has minority share, has the right to conduct import and export under our own name outside a bonded area. ASEAN Region In the ASEAN region, overseas offices including the Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Manila branches, trading subsidiaries including Mitsui & Co., (Thailand) Ltd., Mitsiam International Ltd. (Thailand), PT Mitsui Indonesia (Indonesia) and associated companies jointly collaborate with the Head Office and engage in various business activities involving, among other things, chemical and metal products and industrial type projects. Such industrial projects are referred to in the discussion of business activities of the Infrastructure Projects Business Unit above. With the Head Office, these branches and trading subsidiaries jointly establish various subsidiaries and participate in joint ventures formed with the third parties. Southwest Asia Our operations in India were traditionally handled by branch offices in New Delhi, Calcutta, Madras and Bombay and were concentrated primarily in exporting commodities, such as iron ore, finished iron and steel products, textiles, and marine products, to Japan and other areas of the world. However, with the increasing deregulation of the Indian economy, in March 2003 we established Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd. Through Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd, we expect not only to engage in import and export-related transactions but also to pursue investment opportunities in domestic distribution channels. Other Overseas Areas Segment This segment includes all of our region-based subsidiaries, liaison offices and affiliated companies excluding those in our Americas, Europe and Asia Segments. The subsidiaries, liaison offices and associated companies in this segment are located primarily in Oceania, the Middle East, and CIS. The Overseas Areas Segment is engaged in business activities that are essentially similar to that of Mitsui. We conduct business activities in all industry sectors based on our specialized knowledge particular to that region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥4.9 billion or 0.6% and ¥14.3 billion or 7.1% of consolidated totals, respectively. 48 Oceania In Australia, Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. is active in the development of minerals such as iron ore and coal, energy and agricultural exports in collaboration with corresponding operating segments, mainly in the Head Office. As described in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and the Energy Segment above, Australia is a critical geographic area in our corporate strategy. Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. participates in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) with equity shares of 20% and 30%, respectively. The Middle East In the Middle East we have established trading subsidiaries Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. (United Arab Emirates), Mitsui and Co.(Middle East) B.S.C.(c) (Bahrain), Mitsui and Co., Iran Ltd. (Iran) and Mitsui and Co. Kuwait W.L.L.(Kuwait). Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. owns offices in United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman. Mitsui has 10 representative offices in the Middle East countries including Saudi Arabia. These trading subsidiaries and offices in the Middle East collalorate with the Head Office primarily in the field energy development and production and projects of petrochemical plants and power plants. All Other Segment The operations of the All Other Segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥7.1 billion or 0.9% and ¥11.2 billion or 5.5% of our consolidated totals, respectively. The All Other Segment has 11 subsidiaries and 1 associated company. The activities of major subsidiaries in this segment are as follows: Ÿ Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. is engaged in financial services such as commercial loan and cash management services, mainly provided to domestic subsidiaries and associated companies. Ÿ Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. (Singapore) is engaged in-house financial services in the South East Asian region. Principal Markets We are involved in the worldwide trading of various commodities. The following table provides a breakdown of our revenues by commodity type for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues(1), Distribution by Commodity: Iron and Steel ¥ 523.7 ¥ 407.1 ¥ 312.9 Non-Ferrous Metals 102.1 161.4 157.2 Machinery 368.0 264.9 301.3 Electronics & Information 164.9 144.7 119.8 Chemicals 886.7 729.1 520.1 Energy 1,360.5 1,035.1 954.7 Foods 424.6 473.6 389.5 Textiles 42.4 43.0 32.8 General Merchandise 78.8 96.1 84.8 Property and Service Business 163.8 139.6 97.4 Consolidated Total ¥ 4,115.5 ¥ 3,494.6 ¥ 2,970.5 49 Notes: (1) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, revenues from discontinued operations are eliminated from each product amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The following table shows our total trading transactions in each of our major markets for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.(1)(2)(3) In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Japan ¥ 8,554.6 ¥ 7,719.4 ¥ 7,177.1 United States 1,265.0 1,090.9 831.3 United Kingdom 174.6 200.4 159.7 China 709.3 607.9 421.1 All Other 4,182.2 3,965.3 3,681.9 Consolidated Total ¥ 14,885.7 ¥ 13,583.9 ¥ 12,271.1 Notes: (1) Total trading transactions is a voluntary disclosure and represents the gross transaction volume or the nominal aggregate value of the sales contracts in which we act as principal and transactions in which we serve as agent. Total trading transactions is not meant to represent sales or revenues in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Total trading transactions should not be construed as equivalent to, or a substitute or proxy for, revenues, or as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity or cash flows generated by operating, investing or financing activities. A substantial part of total trading transactions represents transactions in which title to and payment for the goods pass through us without physical acquisition and delivery through our inventories. We have included the information concerning total trading transactions because it is used by similar Japanese trading companies as an industry benchmark, and we believe it is a useful supplement to results of operations data as a measure of our performance compared to other similar Japanese trading companies. Total trading transactions is included in the measure of segment profit and loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. See Notes 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” and 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION” accompanying the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) Total trading transactions are attributed to countries based on the location of customers. (3) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, total trading transactions to external customers from discontinued operations are eliminated from each geographic area amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. C. Organizational Structure. We are a global general trading company and we conduct our business with our subisidiaries and associated companies. As of March 31, 2006, we had 376 subsidiaries and 206 associated companies that are accounted for by the equity method. 50 The table below provides information on our significant subsidiaries as of March 31, 2006. We have supplementarily provided voting power where it differs from ownership interest. Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest (%) VotingPower (%) Iron & Steel Products Mitsui Bussan Construction Materials Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of construction materials and semi-assembled steel products 100.0 SINTSUDA CORPORATION(1) Japan Wholesale of steel products 100.0 Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. Singapore Wholesale and retail of steel products 85.0 Seikei Steel Tube Corp. Japan Manufacture and sales of steel tube 70.0 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 100.0 Sesa Goa Limited India Mining and sales of Indian iron ore and processing and sales of coke 51.0 Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 70.0 Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Australia Investments in Australian coal business 100.0 Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Netherlands Investments in a copper mine in Chile 61.9 Raw Materials Development Co., Ltd. United States Investments in ferrous raw materials business 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Raw Materials Development Corp. Japan Wholesale of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap and ferroalloys 100.0 Mitalco Inc. United States Aluminum smelting 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Metals Ltd. Japan Marketing of copper and aluminum metals 100.0 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects MBK Project Holdings Ltd. Japan Investments in manufacturers of plant-related materials and equipment 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. United States Freightcar leasing and management in North America 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Plant & Project Corp. Japan Sales of chemical plants and heavy machinery equipment 100.0 Mitsui Power Ventures Limited United Kingdom Investments in power generation business 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. Netherlands Freightcar leasing and management in Europe 100.0 Clio Marine Inc. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 Toyota Chile S.A. Chile Import and sales of automobiles and auto parts in Chile 100.0 P.T. Bussan Auto Finance Indonesia Motorcycle retail finance 90.0 Mitsui Automotive Europe B.V. Netherlands Investments in automotive-related companies and trading of automobiles 100.0 Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Aerospace Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of helicopters and defence related systems 100.0 Tombo Aviation Inc. United States Purchase, sales and leasing of aircraft 100.0 CM Pacific Maritime Corporation Liberia Shipping business 100.0 MMK CO., LTD. Japan Sales of machine tools and injection molding machine 100.0 51 Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest (%) VotingPower (%) Tombo Capital Corporation Japan Purchase, sales and leasing of aircraft 100.0 Chemical P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak Indonesia Production and sales of anhydrous ammonia 55.0 Novus International, Inc. United States Manufacturing and sales of feed additives 65.0 Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio Brazil Production and sales of fertilizers 100.0 Nikken Fine Chemicals Co., Ltd. Japan Production and sales of sorbitol and related organic chemical products 100.0 MITSUI BUSSAN SOLVENT & COATING CO., LTD. Japan Sales and trading of solvents and coating materials 100.0 Japan-Arabia Methanol Company Ltd. Japan Investments in methanol producing business in Saudi Arabia and sales of products 55.0 Mitsui Bussan Agro Business Co., Ltd. Japan Development and sales of fertilizers and agricultural products 100.0 Daito Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Production and sales of industrial chemicals 70.0 Mitsui Bussan Plastics Co., Ltd. Japan Wholesale of plastic raw materials and products 100.0 Nippon Trading Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of plastics and chemicals 53.9 54.4 Mitsui Electronics Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Service in the process of grinding of liquid crystal display parts 100.0 Bussan Nanotech Research Institute Inc. Japan Research and development of nano-products 100.0 Energy Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited Australia Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 100.0 Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. Australia Sales of crude oil and condensate, development of Casino gas field in Australia 100.0 Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. Netherlands Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in Oman 79.1 60.0 Wandoo Petroleum Pty Ltd Australia Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 70.9 100.0 Mitsui Gas Development Qatar B.V. Netherlands Development and production of natural gas and condensate 100.0 Mitsui LNG Nederland B.V. Netherlands Investments in Qatar LNG project 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (E&P) B.V. Netherlands Exploration, production and investments in oil and natural gas 100.0 Endeavour Resources Limited United Kingdom Investments in Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. 100.0 Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. 100.0 Mitsui E&P New Zealand Limited New Zealand Exploration, production and investments in oil and natural gas 100.0 52 Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest (%) VotingPower (%) Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore Physical and future trading of crude oil and petroleum products 100.0 Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 89.9 Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of liquefied petroleum gas in Japan 89.9 Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 100.0 Foods & Retail Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Japan Manufacture and sales of food products 51.9 87.6 MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. Japan Wholesale of foods and beverages 99.9 WILSEY FOODS, INC. United States Investments in processed oil food company 90.0 DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. Japan Production, processing and sales of broilers 72.3 VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. Japan Procurement and demand chain planning and management of food materials 100.0 Hokushuren Company Limited Japan Wholesale of liquor and foods 70.5 72.9 Retail System Service Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of sundries and foodstuff to retailers 100.0 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. Japan Planning and management of production and distribution of apparel 100.0 Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. Japan Real estate sales, leasing and management 100.0 MBK Real Estate Ltd. United States Real estate-related business 100.0 Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. Japan Housing business 100.0 CABLENET SAITAMA CO., LTD. Japan Cable TV business in urban area 50.8 Kids Station Inc. Japan Broadcasting of TV programs for children 67.0 Telepark Corp. Japan Sales of mobile phones and related telecommunication services 61.9 Nextcom K.K. Japan Network integration focused on multi-vendor and in-house developed solutions 49.0 Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. Japan Planning, development, maintenance and operation of computer systems 67.4 TOYO Officemation, Inc. Japan Design, operation and maintenance of information systems 100.0 Mitsui Electronics Inc.(2) Japan Investments in semiconductor device sales companies 100.0 Logistics & Financial Markets Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. United Kingdom Trading of energy derivatives 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. United States Trading of precious metals 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. Japan Future commission merchant 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong,China Trading of precious metals 100.0 53 Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest (%) VotingPower (%) Bussan Capital Corp. Japan Securities investment, commercial finance and related activities 100.0 Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. Japan Warehousing, customs broking and real estate leasing 100.0 Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. Japan Property and casualty insurance consignment and agency services 100.0 Tri-Net (Japan) Inc. Japan International integrated transportation services 100.0 Tri-Net Logistics (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore International integrated transportation services 100.0 TOSHIN SOKO KAISHA, LTD. Japan Warehousing and customs broking 100.0 KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD. Japan Warehousing, transportation and real estate 99.0 Americas Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. United States Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Canada Trading 100.0 Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. Brazil Trading 100.0 Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc.(3) United States Investments in steel-related businesses 100.0 Westport Petroleum, Inc. United States International trading of petroleum products and crude oil 100.0 Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. United States Sales of steel pipes 94.0 Portac, Inc. United States Manufacture of lumber and lumber products 100.0 Mitsui Steel, Inc. United States Wholesale and SCM services for steel products 100.0 CornerStone Research & Development, Inc. United States Processing and packaging of healthcare foods and supplements 100.0 Channel Terminal Corp. United States Investments in tank leasing business 100.0 Europe Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC United Kingdom Management of business in Europe and Africa 100.0 Mitsui & Co. UK PLC United Kingdom Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V.(4) Netherlands Financial services 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH Germany Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Benelux S.A./N.V. Belgium Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. France S.A.S. France Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Italia S.p.A. Italy Trading 100.0 Asia Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong,China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (China) Ltd. China Management of business in China 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (China) Trading Ltd. China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. Taiwan Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand Trading 100.0 Mitsiam International Ltd. Thailand Trading 51.2 55.0 54 Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest (%) VotingPower (%) Other Overseas Areas Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Australia Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. United ArabEmirates Trading 100.0 All Other Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd.(5) Japan Financial services 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd.(6) Singapore Financial services 100.0 (1) Changed its corporate name from Tsuda Corporation in April 2005 (2) Changed its corporate name from Xion Electronics Inc. in October 2005 (3) Changed its corporate name from Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc. in December 2005 (4) Changed its corporate name from Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V. in August 2006 (5) Changed its corporate name from Bussan Credit Co., Ltd. in April 2005 (6) Changed its corporate name from Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. in July 2006 D. Property, Plant and Equipment. The following table provides a list of our principal property, plant and equipment as of March 31, 2006. (Sft: Square feet, MT: Metric Ton) Property, Plant and Equipment Description (Holderor Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Size or AnnualProductionCapacity Use of property In Japan: Mitsuibussan Building Tokyo 1,321,572 Sft Office use (Corporate Headquarters) Osaka Mitsuibussan Building Osaka 450,306 Sft Office use Nagoya Mitsuibussan Building Nagoya 152,067 Sft Office use Hibiya Central Building Tokyo 509,841 Sft Office building for lease Bussan Building Annex Tokyo 210,705 Sft Office building for lease Company Housing & Dormitory Chiba 130,010 Sft Employees’ residential facility Human Resource Development Center Shizuoka 83,863 Sft Training facility Land and equipment (Sintsuda Corporation) Yokohama 197,324 Sft Coil center Land and equipment (Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd.) Ishikawa 852,072 Sft Liquefied petroleum gas terminal Land (MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.) Saitama 71,171 Sft Distribution center Land and equipment (DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD.) Aomori 46,102 Sft Broiler processing factory Land and equipment (Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd.) Yamanashi 339,871 Sft Tea leaf processing factory Land (Hokushuren Company Limited) Sapporo 286,751 Sft Distribution center Wakamatsu Building & Shinsuna Bayside Building (Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 172,406 Sft Office building for lease Land (KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD.) Tokyo 649,753 Sft Logistics center Sun East Shinonome Building & Sun East Tatsumi Building (Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 129,221 Sft Office use and office building for lease Tojin Building (TOSHIN SOKO KAISHA, LTD.) Tokyo 26,759 Sft Office use and office building for lease 55 (Sft: Square feet, MT: Metric Ton) Property, Plant and Equipment Description (Holderor Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Size or AnnualProductionCapacity Use of property Overseas: Office space (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 180,507 Sft Office space leased from others Office building (Mitsui & Co. UK PLC) United Kingdom 64,369 Sft Office use Equipment (Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 5,904,000 Mt Mining equipment for coal Equipment (Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 21,674,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 2,521,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Sesa Goa Limited) India 2,844,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Land and plants (P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak) Indonesia 579,397 Sft Ammonia manufacturing plant Land and plants (Novus International, Inc.) United States 658,187 Sft Methionine production facility Office building (MBK Real Estate Europe Limited) United Kingdom 188,254 Sft Office building for lease Senior service apartment (MBK Real Estate, Ltd.) United States 146,628 Sft Leasing asset Chemical tank yard (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 11,495,355 Sft Chemical tank (1) Information on our mining activities related to Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd., Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd., and Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. that are located in Australia and Sesa God Limited that is located in India is shown in “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit” of “B. Business Overview” in this Item and “Mining Activities” below. In addition to the above, our major assets leased to others as of March 31, 2006 were as below: Ÿ Clio Marine Inc. (Liberia), Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. (Liberia) and LPG Transport Service Ltd. (Bermuda) own ocean vessels leased to foreign and domestic shipping companies whose combined book value amounting to ¥33 billion; Ÿ Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. (Netherlands) own rolling stock mainly leased to railway companies in the United States and European countries amounting to ¥36 billion as book value; and Ÿ Tombo Aviation Inc. (United States) owns aircraft leased to foreign and domestic airline companies amounting to ¥4 billion as book value. For information on oil and gas producing activities, see “Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. A portion of the land, buildings and equipment owned by us is subject to mortgages or other liens. As of March 31, 2006, the aggregate amount of such mortgages or other liens was ¥67 billion. We know of no material defect in our title to neither of any of the properties nor of any material adverse claim with respect to them, either pending or contemplated. We consider our offices and other facilities to be well maintained and believe that our plant capacity is adequate for our current requirements. For the information on plans to construct, expand or improve facilities, in particular those related to mineral resource projects and oil and gas projects, see relevant descriptions in “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company—Capital Expenditures,” “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment” and “Energy Segment” of “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Mining Activities” below in this section. We do not believe there are any material environmental issues that would affect the utilization of our assets. 56 Mining Activities Information regarding our mining activities is provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture or Investee(1) Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(2) Location Type ofMineralResources(3) Fe Basis(%) Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J(4) Robe Valley, north of the town of Pannawonica Pisolite 57.2 Railway and port in Cape Lambert (owned by Robe River Iron Associates and operated by Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd.) Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia Open pit Supplied through the integrated Hamersley and Robe power network operated by Pilbara Iron West Angelas(4) Approximately 100km west of the town of Newman Marra Mamba 62.2 Same as above Same as above Open pit Same as above Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mt. Whaleback Near the town of Newman, 426 km south of Port Headland Brockman Marra Mamba 63.262.3 Railway (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) and port in Port Headland (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) Mineral lease granted in 1967 under the Iron Ore (Mount Newman) Agreement Act 1964 scheduled to expire in 2009 with rights for successive renewals for 21 years Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek 92 km north of Newman, 310 km south of Port Headland Channel Iron Deposit 57.9 Rail spur (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) connected to the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mount Newmani Joint Venture) and port inn Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) Mining lease granted in 1991 under the Iron Ore (Marillana Creek) Agreement Act 1991 scheduled to expire in 2012 with the right to extend for additional 42 years Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap 57 Name of Mines(2) Location Type of Mineral Resources(3) Fe Basis (%) Means of Access to the Property Title/Lease Type of Mine Power Source Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 210 km east of Port Headland Nimingarra 60.3 Railway (owned and operated by Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture) and port in Port Headland (owned and operated by Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Multiple mineral leases under the Iron Ore (Mount Goldsworthy) Agreement Act 1964 and the Iron Ore (Goldsworthy— Nimingarra) Agreement Act 1972. The last one expires in 2014, with rights of renewal over these leases for successive 21-year periods. Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap Area C 120 km northwest of Newman, 37 km southwest of Yandi MarraMamba 62.0 Rail spur (owned by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) connecting to the Yandi spur line (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) and then onto the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) and port in Port Hedland (owned and operated by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Same as above (The mining lease expires in 2007 and has a right of renewal for further period of 21 years.) Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited (51%) Goa and Karnataka, India Codli Goa, India Fines/Lumps 58.0to62.0 Barge and port in Mormugao Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Sonshi Goa, India Fines/Lumps 58.0to62.0 Barge and port in Mormugao Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Chitradurga Karnataka, India Fines/Lumps 63.5to64.0 Railway, truck and shipping facility at Mormugao and Chennai Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Hospet Karnataka, India Fines/Lumps 63.5to64.0 Railway, truck and shipping facility at Mormugao and Chennai Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state (1) The term “Investee” refers only to Sesa Goa Limited. (2) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (3) “Pisolite”, “Marra Mamba”, “Brockman”, “Channel Iron Deposit” and “Nimingarra” refer to the types of iron ore that are found in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. (4) The percentage figures of “Fe Basis” of Mesa J and West Angelas represent the figures corresponding to mines, excluding the figures corresponding to stockpile components. 58 COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest(2) Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(3) Location Type ofResources Means of Access to the Property Title/Lease Type of Mine Power Source BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) (20%) Queensland, Australia Riverside In the Bowen Basin, 150 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal Railway (Queensland Rail) and port in Mackay Leases granted by State and renewable subject to State’s discretion Open pit State ownedgrid South Walker Creek In the Bowen Basin, 100 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Same as above Same as above Open pit State ownedgrid Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla 4km west of Muswellbrook in the Upper Hunter Valley Thermal coal Railway and port at Newcastle Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel In the Bowen Basin, 200 km west of Rockhampton Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State ownedgrid Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) In the Bowen Basin 184 km south-west of Gladstone Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek In the Bowen Basin, 200 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State ownedgrid (1) “BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.” indicates the name of the company established by BHP Billiton plc and Mitsui. (2) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. is our associated company in which Mitsui has 20% interest. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. is our subsidiary which owns interests in Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Dawson Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture. (3) “Name of mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. 59 A brief history and the present condition of each of the above-mentioned mines, including the current state of development, if applicable, are provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J The development of the Robe River project began in 1962(*) near Pannawonica. The Robe River project was commissioned and the first shipment was made in 1972. Iron ore reserves at the Mesa J production Base provide the cornerstone of Pannawonica’s sinter fines and lump output. Development of Mesa J began in 1992, and all mine administration, workshops, warehousing and other support facilities were integrated there in 1994. The mine produces Rove River fines and lump, which are pisolitic iron ore products. Process Plant 1 was commissioned in 1999 and Process Plant 2 in 2001. The plant processes clay-contaminated pisolite, sub-grade material which was once discarded, to reduce contaminants and retain on-specification ore. Total material hauled at Mesa J is between 65 and 75 million tonnes per year. From this production base, the joint venture produces approximately 32 million tonnes of iron ore each year. West Angelas The development of West Angelas began in 1998. Mining of ore commenced in March 2002. The West Angelas deposits contain Marra Mamba type iron ore with higher iron content than Robe River’s Mesa J mine. The West Angelas operation is comprised of an open pit mine, a crushing and screening ore processing plant producing lump and sinter fines iron ore, as well as stockpiling, reclaiming and train-loading facilities. Further expansion of the West Angelas mine was completed ahead of schedule in October 2005. This $105 million project took the mine’s production capacity to 25 million tonnes per year. Robe River Iron Associates uses a dedicated rail system, operated by Pilbara Iron, to transport ore from its mines to the company’s deepwater port facilities at Cape Lambert. The US$200 million rail expansion project to duplicate almost 100 kilometers of track and associated interconnection and infrastructure to increase the capacity of the Pilbara Iron main line is progressing well, with the southern section completed in 2005 and the northern section on schedule completed in mid-2006. (*) The Robe River project was originally started by Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company, an iron and steel producer in the United States. Since then, there were major changes in ownership before Rio Tinto took a 53% stake in Robe River Iron Associates in 2000. Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mount Whaleback The joint venture began production in 1969 at the Mount Whaleback ore body. Today, production continues to be sourced from the major Mount Whaleback ore body and is complemented by production from other ore bodies, namely Orebody 25, 29 and 30 and Jimblebar, which we are involved in through the Wheelarra arrangement with BHP Iron Ore (Jimblebar) Pty Ltd, Itochu Minerals & Energy Australia Pty Ltd, and 4 Chinese steel companies. At current price assumptions and production rates, reserves from Mt Whaleback are expected to contribute to the Mount Newman Joint Venture for at least 20 years. The facilities at Mount Whaleback include primary and secondary crushing plants with a nominal capacity of 35 million tonnes of product per year, a heavy media beneficiation plant with an annual capacity of 8 million tonnes and a train-loading facility. An additional primary and secondary crushing plant is present at Orebody 25 with a nominal capacity of eight million tonnes of product per year. The three joint ventures, namely, Mt. Newman joint venture, Yandi joint venture and Goldsworthy joint venture have been planning for staged expansions of supply capacity. As a step, in October 2005 they approved an expansion plan to add 20 million tonnes per annum to their capacity, upgrading combined capacity to 129 million tonnes per annum by 2008. The capital expenditure for the expansion work will total A$2.2 billion. Mitsui will bear approximately A$150 million. The expansion will focus mainly on Mining Area C mine and encompass expansions of rail systems and the loading port, which is meant to bring improved efficiency in operations and reduce overall operating costs. 60 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek Development of the ore body began in 1991 with a capacity of 10 million tonnes per annum and the project’s first shipment of iron ore was in March 1992. Capacity was progressively expanded between 1994 and 2003 and the current capacity is 42 million tonnes per annum. Two processing plants (OHP1 and OHP2) and a primary crusher and overland conveyor (Iowa) are used to crush and screen the Yandi ore and deliver it to one of two train loading facilities. At the current production rate, it is expected that the reserves will be sufficient for at least 20 years. Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Mount Goldsworthy was commissioned in 1966 in the North Area. The original Goldsworthy mine was closed in 1982 and mining operations ceased at Shay Bay in 1993. Since then, mining has continued from the adjacent Nimingarra mine and Yarrie mine, 30 kilometers to the south-east. Two primary crushers exist, one at Yarrie and the other at Nimingarra. The ore is crushed and then railed to Finucane Island. Area C In October 2003, the joint venture opened the new Area C mine located 120 kilometers north-west of Newman, which produces a Marra Mamba ore deposit, which is sold under the trademark MAC. Initial mining has commenced at the C Deposit under the POSMAC arrangement, to which BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd, POS-Ore Pty Ltd, Itochu Minerals & Energy Australia Pty Ltd and we are parties. Under this arrangement, POSCO has committed to purchase 3 million tonnes per annum. All production from the Mount Goldsworthy North (Yarrie and Nimingarra deposits) is transported on a separate railway to Port Hedland. Ore from Area C is transported via a 39 kilometer new section of railway to the Yandi mine which then connects to the main Newman to Port Hedland railway. From there, the venture ships the ore through the Nelson Point and Finucane Island facilities. Ore is produced from Goldsworthy North area at a nominal capacity of 8 million tonnes of product per year as of the end of March 2006. The ore currently being produced at Area C is from C Deposit, which is an open-pit mine. The ore processing plant at Area C has a nominal capacity of 23 million tonnes of product per year. E Deposit will also contribute to Area C products commencing in 2005-2006 and other Area C deposits (F, A and D Deposits) commencing in 2008-2009. At current price assumptions and production rates, reserves from Area C will continue to support Area C products for at least 20 years. Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited (51%) Goa and Karnataka, India Codli Sonshi Sesa Goa Limited commenced operations in 1954 in North Goa, India. Sesa Goa’s main mining operations are at the Codli and Sonshi mines. Goan ore tends to be relatively high in alumina content, and most Goan ore is beneficiated to raise the iron content. We acquired a 51% interest in Sesa Goa in 1996. Chitradurga Hospet The main operation in Karnataka is at Chitradurga mine. A second mine is located at Hospet. These mines are equidistant from the part of Mormugao and Chennai and ore can be shipped from either port. COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Riverside Reserves from Riverside were depleted in March 2005. South Walker Creek South Walker Creek became operational in 1998. It produces pulverized coal injection fuel and minor quantities of by- product energy coal. South Walker Creek has a production capacity of four million tonnes per year. Exploration has increased the reserve base in the past year. BHP Mitsui Coal holds undeveloped leases in the Bowen Basin (specifically, the areas of Wards Well, Lancewood, Kemmis-Walker, Bee Creek and Nebo West) and is developing Poitrel. 61 Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla Development consent was granted in 1996 and production commenced in 1999. Coal & Allied, Rio Tinto’s subsidiary in Australia, acquired its interest in Bengalla in 2001. Its coal preparation plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash thermal coal for export. Production in 2005 was 6.0 million tonnes of thermal coal. Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel The Kestrel Coal mine, previously known as Gordonstone Mine commenced operation in 1992. Coal is extracted by underground mining. The mine has two longwall units that are operated alternately to minimize downtime and ensure seamless production and reliability. The Kestrel Preparation Plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash coking coal and high energy thermal coal. Production in 2005 was 3.7 million tonnes saleable high quality coking coal and export thermal coal. Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) The Moura Mine commenced operation in 1961. Since 1994, all production at Moura has been from its surface operation. Production tonnage has been increasing steadily throughout the years. After a few changes of ownership, Anglo Coal acquired a 51% share in 2002. In September 2003, the adjacent Theodore deposit was developed which further expanded its capacity. Anglo Coal Australia and Mitsui Coal Holdings intend to recapitalize their existing operations at the Moura mine and to establish two additional operations on adjacent tenures. The new and expanded operations will be known as the Dawson Complex. Moura Joint Venture has already changed its name to Dawson Joint Venture. The joint venture’s capital expenditure is estimated in excess of Australian dollar 1 billion and will include a new coal preparation plant, additional mining equipment, a coal conveying system for transporting coal, rail load out facilities and administration buildings. The additional coal will be made available for the market in 2007, and consequently, annual production capacity will increase from an existing 7 million tonnes to 12.7 million tonnes of metallurgical and thermal coals. German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek Open pit mining commenced in 1981. Underground mining in the Central Colliery area started in 1984, while underground mining in the Southern Colliery area began in 1988. Grasstree is a new underground mine being developed within our existing German Creek operations lease area. This mine will produce hard coking coal for our export markets. The mine construction commenced in 2001, underground development work is now underway and it will commence production from the latter half of 2006. In addition, the joint venture has started the development of Lake Lindsay mine, a new open cut mine adjacent to German Creek mine, to increase the aggregate annual production from 6 to 10 million tonnes per annum and to extend the total joint venture’s mine life by about 11 years. 62 Production Tonnage IRON ORE Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. In Thousands of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’s SubsidiaryorAssociated Company Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Pannawonica 30,129 9,943 31,023 10,238 30,260 9,986 West Angelas 21,149 6,979 19,561 6,455 14,181 4,680 Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Mt. Whaleback 36,021 2,521 34,992 2,449 36,332 2,543 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Marillana Creek 40,335 2,823 40,899 2,863 40,548 2,838 Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 7,089 496 5,268 369 7,006 490 Area C 20,471 1,433 16,845 1,179 3,736 262 Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa 3,998 2,039 2,983 1,521 2,941 1,500 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka 1,578 805 2,063 1,052 1,556 794 TOTAL 160,770 27,039 153,634 26,126 136,560 23,093 63 COAL Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. In Thousands of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia Riverside 2,384 477 3,323 665 2,641 528 South Walker Creek 3,273 655 3,658 732 3,927 785 Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New South Wales, Australia 5965 596 5,312 531 6,203 620 Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 3,720 744 3,282 656 3,322 664 Dawson Joint Venture (formerly “Moura Joint Venture”) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 6,200 3,038 7,023 3,441 5,964 2,922 German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 5,086 1,526 5,782 1,735 5,422 1,627 TOTAL 26,628 7,036 28,380 7,760 27,479 7,146 Reserve Tonnage IRON ORE Reserves of iron ore classified according to operator are presented in the tables below. As used below, “marketable reserve” refers to tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses, and “recoverable reserve” refers to tonnage after accounting for extraction losses. Operator: Rio Tinto Ltd.(1)(2) Reserves as disclosed by Rio Tinto Ltd. consist of proved and probable marketable reserves. In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary orAssociated Company Location TotalMarketableReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalMarketableReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalMarketableReserve Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Pannawonica(3)(4) 303 100 172 57 200 66 West Angelas(3) 394 130 418 138 440 145 (1) Iron ore reserves are shown as recoverable reserves of marketable product after accounting for all mining and processing losses. Mill recoveries are not available. (2) Reserves of Robe River Iron Associates indicate reserves as of the end of December 2005, 2004 and 2003. (3) Stockpile components of reserves are included. (4) Pannawonica reserves have increased following revision and updating of geological models and mine designs, leading to the inclusion of reserves for the Mesa A deposit. 64 Operator: BHP Billiton Ltd.(1)(2)(3)(4) Reserve amounts of Mt. Newman, Yandi and Mt. Goldsworthy consist of proved and probable recoverable reserves. In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended June 30, 2005 2004 2003 Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’sShare Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu IronPty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Mt. Whaleback 836 59 955 67 1,026 72 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron OreDevelopmentPty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Marillana Creek 860 60 901 63 641 45 Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron OreDevelopmentPty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 14 1 13 1 21 2 Area C 474 33 499 35 204 14 (1) Mining dilution and mining recovery (in general around 95%) has been taken into account in the estimation of reserves. (2) No third party audits have been conducted specifically for the purposes of this disclosure. (3) Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are 100% except for Mt Newman Joint Venture of which metallurgical recovery is 92 to 100%. (4) Reserves provided in the table above indicate reserves as of the end of June 2005, 2004 and 2003. Operator: Sesa Goa Ltd.(1)(2) Reserve amounts of Sesa Goa consist of proved and probable recoverable reserves. In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’s Share Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa 57 29 55 28 53 27 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka 28 14 30 15 20 10 (1) Iron ore reserves are shown as recoverable reserves before accounting for all mining and processing losses. For the year ended March 31, 2006, average rates of mill recovery for marketable products for Codli and Sonshi, and for Chitradurga and Hospet were both 70%. (2) Reserves of Sesa Goa Ltd. indicate reserves as of the end of March 2006, 2005 and 2004. 65 COAL In the table below, coal reserves are shown as marketable reserves, which are tonnage after accounting for extraction and processing and preparation losses. In Millions of Tonnes Mitsui’s Subsidiary or AssociatedCompany Year Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Operator Location TotalReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalReserve Mitsui’s Share BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) BHP Billiton Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia Riverside(2) — — 3 1 5 1 South Walker Creek 45 9 92 18 96 19 Bengalla Joint Venture(3) Rio Tinto Ltd. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New South Wales, Australia 155 16 161 16 166 17 Kestrel Joint Venture(3) Rio Tinto Ltd. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 116 23 120 24 123 25 Dawson Joint Venture(3) (formerly Moura Joint Venture) Anglo American Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 298 146 208 102 132 65 German Creek Joint Venture(3) (including Lake Lindsay Mine) Anglo American Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 177 53 78 23 90 27 TOTAL 791 247 662 184 612 154 (1) Reserves of BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. indicates reserves as of the end of June 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 2006 reserves means reserves as of the end of June 2005. (2) Reserves from Riverside were depleted in March 2005. (3) Reserves of Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Dawson Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture indicate reserves as of the end of December 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 2006 reserves mean reserves as of the end of December 2005. We hold a 15% profit share in Valepar S.A., which held a 34% profit share of the common stock and preferred stock of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”) as of December 31, 2005. Accordingly, 5.1% (34% x 15%) of CVRD’s production and reserve amounts are indirectly attributable to us. The following table provides iron ore production and reserve amounts for CVRD, and Mitsui’s share of the production and reserve amounts of CVRD. Production Tonnage (for the year ended December 31) Millions of Tonnes 2005 2004 2003 Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share 233.9 11.9 211.3 10.8 188.3 9.6 Proven and Probable Reserves (as of December 31) Millions of Tonnes 2005 2004 2003 Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share 7,981.8 407.7 6,869.1 350.3 4,926.20 251.6 66 Oil and Gas Producing Activities The following table shows crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas production from our reserves for the three fiscal years indicated: Production Information Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1) Year Ended March 31, Middle East Oceania Others Worldwide Middle East Oceania Others Worldwide 2006 3 6 5 14 6 59 39 104 2005 3 6 5 14 9 49 34 92 2004 2 8 5 15 — 45 29 74 The following tables show proved reserves and proved developed reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas as of the ending date of three fiscal years indicated: Proved Reserve Information: Proved Reserves Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1) Year Ended March 31, Middle East Oceania Others Worldwide Middle East Oceania Others Worldwide At March 31, 2006 23 94 104 221 40 881 1,789 2,710 At March 31, 2005 24 78 92 194 75 840 1,393 2,308 At March 31, 2004 23 49 127 199 84 873 965 1,922 Proved Developed Reserves(2) Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1) Year Ended March 31, Middle East Oceania Others Worldwide Middle East Oceania Others Worldwide At March 31, 2006 18 20 25 63 39 319 67 425 At March 31, 2005 24 20 18 62 75 356 82 513 At March 31, 2004 23 21 19 63 84 330 69 483 (1) 1 barrel of crude oil = 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas (2) The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves is approximately 28% as of March 31, 2006 and relatively low. The expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves are estimated to be ¥515 billion in total as of March 31, 2006. Undeveloped reserves are largely attributable to an associated company in Russia and an associated company in Australia. Production of crude oil in 2007 and LNG in 2008 are expected, for the associated company in Russia. Production of crude oil and LNG has already commenced at the existing facilities at the Australian company. The drilling of additional development wells will be performed over the project life according to the project drilling program. Information on our oil and gas producing activities is shown in the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. And also see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results by Operating Segment—Energy Segment.” Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments We are a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. There are no written comments which have been provided by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission 67 regarding our periodic reports under that Act not less than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and which remain unresolved as of the date of the filing of this Form 20-F with the Commission and which we believe are material. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements, that appear elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. As used in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, “Mitsui” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Bussan Kabushiki Kaisha), and “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to indicate Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. In the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the “Company” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd., and the “companies” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Note” throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects relate to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. Throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, we describe the domicile of our subsidiaries and associated companies in parentheses following names of those companies. For example, Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. (Australia) means that the company’s name is Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. and that it is domiciled in Australia. Operations of a subsidiary that either have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale have been accounted for as discontinued operations under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). This means that income statement and cash flow information are reclassified for all years to separate the discontinued operations from our continuing operations. This presentation is required by U.S. GAAP and facilitates historical and future trend analysis of our continuing operations. Key Performance Measures under Management’s Discussion Although our operating results and financial condition are influenced by various factors, management believes that as of the end of the fiscal year under review the following indicators can be usefully employed to discuss trends in our performance and financial condition. Gross profit, operating income* and equity in earnings of associated companies We undertake worldwide business activities, involving diversified risk-return profiles, ranging from intermediary services as agent to development and production of mineral resources and energy. In this context, changes in the amounts of gross profit, operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies by operating segment reflect the overall progress of our business, and greatly affect the amount of net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income. For further information, refer to the table of “Operating Segment Information” and subsequent discussions in “Operating Results by Operating Segment” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. * Operating Income Operating income is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income is comprised of our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses, (c) provision for doubtful receivables and (d) government grant for transfer of substitutional portion of the Employee Pension Fund (“EPF”), as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. 68 Trends in the price of and supply-demand for mineral resources and energy Our operating results are influenced by conditions of various commodity markets. In recent years, our operating results have been influenced by supply-demand balance and price fluctuations for mineral resources and energy that have been driven by expanding demand from emerging countries, particularly China, and the importance of our mineral resources and energy operations in our overall operating results has increased. For further information regarding trends and prospects in this field, refer to the sections relating to the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and the Energy Segment in “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Investment plans and financial leverage According to our Medium-term Management Outlook announced in May 2006, we intend to invest a total of ¥800 billion during the two fiscal years ending March 2007 and 2008, in order to build strategic business portfolios in the four business areas of Mineral Resources and Energy Area; Global Marketing Networks Area, including steel products and chemicals; Infrastructure Area, including power generation; and Consumer Services Area, including outsourcing services and content businesses. Mitsui is monitoring and managing our financial leverage with a view of securing an efficient return on equity as well as maintaining and improving credit ratings and financial soundness in order to secure the capital resources required for these investments and to refinance our interest bearing debt. For further discussion on these investments and related financial policies, refer to “B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. Results of Operations Summary of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2006 Operating Environment Principal developments in the economic environment that influenced our results of operations during the year ended March 31, 2006 included the following: Ÿ The global economy continued its steady expansion driven by the growth in the United States, as well as emerging countries, particularly China. The expansion again brought higher consumption, housing investment and capital investment. Emerging countries especially continued strong economic growth led by increasing personal consumption from a growing middle-income class and by robust infrastructure demand. Ÿ These factors contributed to a substantial increase in global trade and spurred the rising trend in commodity prices such as crude oil, iron ore, coal and non-ferrous metals. Ÿ The Japanese economy entered a period of self-sustaining growth. Capital investment increased reflecting expansion of corporate earnings while improved employment and wages supported a favorable trend in personal consumption. In addition, export volume increased supported by an expansion of the global economy and the weak yen. Ÿ In the United States, the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) continued its policy of raising interest rates, which resulted in a gradual rise in interest rates worldwide. In March 2006, the Bank of Japan terminated its quantitative easing policy, which it had followed for the prior five years. Summary of Operating Results, Financial Condition and Cash Flows Ÿ Operating results — For the year ended March 31, 2006, we recorded net income of ¥202.4 billion, an increase of ¥81.3 billion, or 67.1%, from ¥121.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. — Most operating segments except for the Foods & Retail Segment recorded improved operating results, which benefited from a favorable economic environment. 69 — Gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies increased by ¥107.7 billion, or 15.2%; and ¥29.9 billion, or 46.5%, respectively, reflecting favorable commodity prices including mineral resources and energy. On the other hand, Mitalco Inc. (United States) and MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) recorded significant one-time impairment losses on long-lived assets. In addition, interest expenses increased principally from the investment in the Sakhalin II project. Ÿ Financial condition Total assets as of March 31, 2006 reached ¥8.6 trillion mainly due to investments in the energy and mineral resources businesses, the infrastructure businesses and the foods and retail businesses; increases in trade receivables and inventories; and the increases in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities. As a result of a public offering and increased retained earnings, our shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2006 reached ¥1.7 trillion. Ÿ Cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥146.4 billion. Net cash used in investing activities was ¥347.3 billion, resulting primarily from investments in energy and mineral resources businesses as well as infrastructure businesses. Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Fluctuation on Operating Results Due to the increase in gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies discussed above, net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 from overseas subsidiaries and associated companies reached ¥174.8 billion, significantly higher than ¥117.9 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2005. The impact of any appreciation of the yen against the currencies used by these companies as functional currency in their reporting—principally U.S. dollars, Australian dollars and Euros—is becoming even more significant. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the U.S. dollar continued to appreciate against the yen and the Euro, reflecting the increasing disparity in interest rates over Japan and Europe. The average U.S. dollar—yen exchange rate during the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥113.93 = U.S.$1, representing yen depreciation of ¥6.33, or 5.9%, compared to the average rate during the year ended March 31, 2005 of ¥107.60 = U.S.$1. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on net income for the year ending March 2007 will largely depend on the net income denominated in local currencies of overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. Based on net income in the business plans of these companies covering the year ending March 2007, yen appreciation by ¥1 against 1 U.S. dollar would have the net effect of reducing net income by approximately ¥1.6 billion. Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2006 as Compared to the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Revenues In accordance with U.S. GAAP, revenues are reported based on the gross amount billed to a customer or on the net amount retained (that is, the amount billed to a customer less the amount paid to a supplier). Revenues are reported based on gross amounts for transactions where we have the related risks and rewards of ownership such as transactions where we are a primary obligor in the arrangement and/or assume general inventory risk without any significant mitigation of our risk level. Revenues are reported based on net amounts where we assume a low degree of related risks and rewards, effectively acting as an agent for the applicable products or services. A typical example of reporting revenues based on net amounts is a transaction where we receive a commission or fee at a fixed rate based on transaction volume or amount. We classified our revenues into sales of products, sales of services and other sales with the corresponding costs of revenues. 70 The table below provides these three categories of revenues by products in “PRODUCT INFORMATION”* in Note 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION.” Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 Change Sales of Products Sales of Services Other Sales Total Sales of Products Sales of Services Other Sales Total Sales of Products Sales of Services Other Sales Total Iron and Steel ¥ 454.7 ¥ 68.8 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 523.7 ¥ 351.2 ¥ 55.7 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 407.1 ¥ 103.5 ¥ 13.1 ¥ 0.0 ¥ 116.6 Non-Ferrous Metals 77.7 9.2 15.2 102.1 137.0 8.4 16.0 161.4 (59.3 ) 0.8 (0.8 ) (59.3 ) Machinery 219.1 97.6 51.3 368.0 163.4 63.3 38.2 264.9 55.7 34.3 13.1 103.1 Electronics & Information 77.5 87.4 0.0 164.9 74.9 69.8 0.0 144.7 2.6 17.6 0.0 20.2 Chemicals 785.9 93.3 7.5 886.7 642.7 79.8 6.6 729.1 143.2 13.5 0.9 157.6 Energy 1,331.8 7.7 21.0 1,360.5 1,009.3 14.0 11.8 1,035.1 322.5 (6.3 ) 9.2 325.4 Foods 377.8 47.2 (0.4 ) 424.6 423.7 50.1 (0.2 ) 473.6 (45.9 ) (2.9 ) (0.2 ) (49.0 ) Textiles 24.5 16.8 1.1 42.4 22.1 19.8 1.1 43.0 2.4 (3.0 ) 0.0 (0.6 ) General Merchandise 69.8 9.0 0.0 78.8 86.0 10.2 (0.1 ) 96.1 (16.2 ) (1.2 ) 0.1 (17.3 ) Property and Service Business 60.8 75.3 27.7 163.8 53.8 63.0 22.8 139.6 7.0 12.3 4.9 24.2 Consolidated Total ¥ 3,479.6 ¥ 512.3 ¥ 123.6 ¥ 4,115.5 ¥ 2,964.1 ¥ 434.1 ¥ 96.4 ¥ 3,494.6 ¥ 515.5 ¥ 78.2 ¥ 27.2 ¥ 620.9 Sales of Products Sales of products include the sale of various products as a principal in the transactions, the manufacture and sale of a wide variety of products such as metals, chemicals, foods and machinery, the development, production and sale of natural resources such as iron ore, coal, oil and gas, and the development and sale of real estate. For the year ended March 31, 2006, revenues from the sales of products were ¥3,479.6 billion, an increase of ¥515.5 billion, or 17.4%, from ¥2,964.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors by product were as follows: Ÿ Revenues from Energy were ¥1,331.8 billion, an increase of ¥322.5 billion from the ¥1,009.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Revenues from sales of crude oil and oil products increased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) by ¥137.9 billion, reflecting higher oil prices. Revenues from domestic sale of oil products also increased at Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) by a combined total of ¥79.6 billion. Regarding price trends of oil and gas for the year ended March 31, 2006, refer to the discussion under “Energy Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Ÿ Revenues from Chemicals were ¥785.9 billion, an increase of ¥143.2 billion from the ¥642.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The principal reasons include increases in Mitsui’s sales of synthetic fiber intermediates, methanol, ammonia and basic petrochemicals, due to higher prices for these petrochemical products reflecting higher crude oil prices. Ÿ Revenues from Iron and Steel were ¥454.7 billion, an increase of ¥103.5 billion from the ¥351.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) recorded an increase of ¥27.6 billion and ¥10.0 billion, respectively, due to the rise in * Revenues reported in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” are classified by similarity of products as required by U.S. GAAP, and are not intended to represent classification by operating segment. As an example, revenues of “Chemicals” in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” include not only those reported in the Chemical Segment but also those reported in other operating segments such as the Americas Segment for sales of chemical-related products or services. To differentiate between classification by product and classification by operating segment, classification by product is italicized in this “Revenues” and “Gross profit classified by category of revenues” in the next “Gross Profit.” 71 iron ore prices. Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States) recorded an increase of ¥14.5 billion, reflecting a favorable steel tubular products market. Regarding price trends of iron ore and coal for the year ended March 31, 2006, refer to the discussion under “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Sales of Services Sales of services include the revenues from trading margins and commissions related to various trading transactions in which we act as a principal or an agent. Specifically, we charge a commission for the performance of various services such as logistics and warehouse services, information and communication services and technical support. For some back-to-back sales and purchase transactions of products, we act as a principal and record the net amount of sale and purchase prices as revenues. We also facilitate arrangement of the contracts between manufacturers and customers and deliveries of the products between suppliers and customers. For the year ended March 31, 2006, revenues from the sales of services were ¥512.3 billion, an increase of ¥78.2 billion from ¥434.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors by products were as follows: Ÿ Revenues from Iron and Steel and Chemicals increased by ¥13.1 billion and ¥13.5 billion, respectively. Favorable market conditions and increases in transaction volume resulted in the overall increase both at Mitsui and subsidiaries. Ÿ Revenues from Machinery were ¥97.6 billion, an increase of ¥34.3 billion from the ¥63.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, primarily attributable to the increases at overseas automobile-related subsidiaries through their logistics and distributorship services. Ÿ Revenues from Electronics & Information were ¥87.4 billion, an increase of ¥17.6 billion from the ¥69.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, principally because revenues from sales of information and communication services increased due to a full year contribution of NextCom K.K. (Japan) which became a subsidiary from the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005. Telepark Corp. (Japan) also contributed reflecting the expanded cell phone sales intermediary business. Other Sales Other sales principally include the revenues from derivative commodity instruments and derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes, the revenues from leasing activities of real estate, rolling stock, ocean transport vessels, aircraft and machinery equipment and the revenues from external consumer financing. For the year ended March 31, 2006, revenues from other sales were ¥123.6 billion, an increase of ¥27.2 billion from ¥96.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, which was primarily attributable to the following factors: Ÿ Leasing revenues were ¥65.3 billion, an increase of ¥9.9 billion from the ¥55.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 due to the contribution of KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD (Japan), which became a subsidiary from the year ended March 31, 2006, and Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. (United States), a leasing company of rolling stock. Ÿ Derivative trading revenues were ¥39.7 billion, an increase of ¥7.7 billion from the ¥32.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The principal reasons for this increase were strong energy derivatives trading at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong, China). Ÿ In addition, business expansion of the motorcycle retail finance at P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) contributed to an increase of revenues from other sales. 72 Gross Profit Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit was ¥816.6 billion, an increase of ¥107.7 billion, or 15.2%, from ¥708.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The Gross Profit ratio (“GP ratio”), or ratio of gross profit divided by revenues, for the year ended March 31, 2006 was 19.8%, a decrease of 0.5 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. Changes in gross profit and GP ratio classified by category of revenues are set forth below: Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 Change Gross Profit GP Ratio Gross Profit GP Ratio Gross Profit GP Ratio Gross Profit from Sales of Products ¥ 368.4 10.6 % ¥ 293.9 9.9 % ¥ 74.5 0.7 % Gross Profit from Sales of Services 381.8 74.5 % 365.3 84.2 % 16.5 (9.7 )% Gross Profit from Other Sales 66.4 53.7 % 49.7 51.6 % 16.7 2.1 % Total ¥ 816.6 19.8 % ¥ 708.9 20.3 % ¥ 107.7 (0.5 )% For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit from sales of products was ¥368.4 billion, an increase of ¥74.5 billion from ¥293.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors in this category classified by product are as follows: Ÿ Gross profit from Energy was ¥90.0 billion, an increase of ¥38.0 billion from the ¥52.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), engaged in production of crude oil in Oman, and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded increases in gross profit, reflecting higher oil prices. Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) also recorded an increase in gross profit from sales of crude oil and oil products. Ÿ Gross profit from Iron and Steel was ¥114.0 billion, an increase of ¥35.5 billion from the ¥78.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded increases in gross profit due to rising iron ore and coal prices. Ÿ Gross profit from Chemicals was ¥51.5 billion, a slight increase of ¥3.7 billion from the year ended March 31, 2005, while the relevant revenues from sales of Chemicals saw a significant increase. Mitsui’s sales of petrochemicals and P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia), an ammonia producing company, contributed to increases in gross profit while Novus International, Inc. (United States) recorded a decrease in gross profit due to higher raw material costs. The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2006 was 10.6%, an improvement of 0.7 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. This 0.7 point improvement was because the growth in revenues at our mineral resources and energy development and production subsidiaries reflecting the surge in sales prices outpaced the increase in their costs of revenues. As for the transactions in commodity type products such as oil products and petrochemicals, higher prices do not necessarily result in increases in gross profit. However, sales of crude oil and oil products at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) in Energy and Mitsui’s sales of basic petrochemicals in Chemicals recorded increase in gross profit derived from price fluctuations in those products. For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit from sales of services was ¥381.8 billion, an increase of ¥16.5 billion from ¥365.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors in this category classified by product were as follows: Ÿ Gross profit from Iron and Steel; and Chemicals increased by ¥13.0 billion and ¥9.7 billion, respectively, reflecting increases in revenues from sales of services. 73 Ÿ Increases in revenues from sales of services of Machinery and Electronics & Information were largely offset by increases in the related costs of those revenues. Those transactions for which gross billed amounts are reported as revenue included logistics services in automobile businesses and network configuration, operation and maintenance services at NextCom K.K. (Japan). The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2006 was 74.5%, a decrease of 9.7 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. This decrease was mainly due to a relative increase in transactions where the gross billed amounts were reported as revenues and GP ratios were less than 100% such as the above-mentioned logistics services in automobile businesses and NextCom K.K. (Japan), compared to the transactions such as intermediary services where the net amount of sales and purchase prices in back-to-back transactions were reported as revenues with GP ratios of 100%. For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit from other sales was ¥66.4 billion, an increase of ¥16.7 billion from the ¥49.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major reasons were the same as described in “Revenues—Other sales” above. The GP ratio from other sales for the year ended March 31, 2006 was 53.7%, an increase of 2.1 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment By operating segment, major factors for the increase in gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 are discussed as below: Ÿ In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials & Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) recorded significant increases, as iron ore prices for the year ended March 31, 2006 rose by 71.5% on a pure ore content basis compared to the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting strong demand from Asia, particularly China. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) also recorded a significant increase, as the contract prices for metallurgical coal and thermal coal for the year ended March 31, 2006 rose. Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal rose by approximately 120%. Ÿ In the Chemical Segment, overall market prices of petrochemical products stayed high, reflecting the high crude oil price, and Mitsui’s petrochemicals trading continuously benefited from favorable market conditions following the previous year. Due to higher ammonia prices, PT Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia) reported an increase in gross profit. In addition, we recorded increases in gross profit in trading of plastics, electronic materials and crystalline liquid for IT related industries and inorganic raw materials such as salt and sulfur, reflecting increasing demand of those materials mainly in Asia. Ÿ In the Energy Segment, rising crude oil prices resulted in significant increases in gross profit of overseas subsidiaries engaged in the development and production of oil and gas, such as Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) operating in Oman and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. (Australia). Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) recorded increases in gross profit for oil products trading, reflecting the strong demand in Asia and higher crude oil prices. Ÿ In the Americas Segment, an oil products trading subsidiary Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) recorded a significant increase in gross profit, and a steel pipe sales subsidiary Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States) also recorded an increase. In addition, there was an increase by ¥1.2 billion due to a full-year contribution from CornerStone Research & Development Inc. (United States) which became a subsidiary from the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005. Gross profit rose ¥14.0 billion for subsidiaries acquired or established from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005 to the end of the year ended March 31, 2006, compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. 74 Those subsidiaries include Road Machinery, LLC (United States) which became a subsidiary in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) which became a subsidiary in the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2006, NextCom K.K. (Japan) which became a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, and CornerStone Research & Development Inc. (United States) as mentioned above. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥550.8 billion, an increase of ¥41.2 billion, or 8.1%, from ¥509.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. In the same manner as with gross profit we saw that selling, general and administrative expenses rose ¥12.6 billion at subsidiaries acquired or established from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005 to the end of the year ended March 31, 2006. The main reasons for the increase of selling, general and administrative expenses are classified as below: Ÿ Personnel expenses were ¥276.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, an increase of ¥25.2 billion from ¥250.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. In overseas subsidiaries, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) and Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) reported increases of ¥3.6 billion and ¥3.0 billion, respectively, because of increases in performance linked bonuses to traders corresponding to increases in gross profit from their trading activities. In domestic subsidiaries, MITSUI FOODS, CO., LTD. (Japan) recorded an increase of ¥1.9 billion in connection with the establishment of new distribution bases. There were also increases from the above-mentioned newly acquired domestic subsidiaries such as Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) and NextCom K.K. (Japan). Mitsui reported an increase of ¥4.5 billion principally due to increases in bonuses to employees. Ÿ Communication and information expenses were ¥42.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, an increase of ¥3.9 billion from ¥38.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This increase resulted from the introduction of a new enterprise resource planning system in November 2004 where maintenance and depreciation expenses were recognized for the full year ended March 31, 2006. Provision for Doubtful Receivables Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2006 was minimal, less than ¥0.1 billion, an improvement from ¥8.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. In both years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, the provision for doubtful receivables consisted mainly of individually small provisions for a number of customers. Improvement in the year ended March 31, 2006 was partly attributable to the collection of debts which had been written off as uncollectible in the past. The major provisions for doubtful receivables in the year ended March 31, 2005 included a provision for a machinery-related domestic customer. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥38.3 billion, an increase of ¥2.8 billion, or 7.9%, from ¥35.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Interest expense was ¥59.9 billion, an increase of ¥16.5 billion, or 38.0%, from ¥43.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income was ¥21.6 billion, an increase of ¥13.7 billion, or 173.4%, from ¥7.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. A breakdown of the principal changes for the year ended March 31, 2006 is as follows: Ÿ At Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. (Netherlands), interest expenses increased by ¥6.7 billion due to an increase in interest bearing debt which was used to fund the increasing investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and an increase in U.S. dollar interest rates. Ÿ Mitsui recorded an increase of ¥3.0 billion in interest expenses, reflecting increases in interest bearing debt associated with increases in investments. 75 Ÿ Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. (United States) recorded an increase of ¥1.9 billion in interest expense, reflecting an increase in U.S. dollar interest rates. Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2006 for the Japanese yen and U.S. dollar, the major currencies in which we have borrowings, are as follows: Ÿ The average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) remained 0.07%, roughly unchanged from the 0.05% during the year ended March 31, 2005, as the Bank of Japan maintained its very low interest rate policy. The average yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.44% for the year ended March 31, 2006, slightly declining from 1.52% during the year ended March 31, 2005. Meanwhile, the yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds rose to 1.78% as of March 31, 2006 on the back of the termination of its quantitative easing policy in March 2006. Ÿ The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2006 was 4.12%, up from the average of 2.13% during the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the FRB’s policy of gradually raising the Federal Funds target rate to 4.75% in the period from June 2004 to March 2006. Regarding progress of our investment plans and financial policies, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Dividend Income Dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥30.7 billion, an increase of ¥6.1 billion, or 24.8%, from ¥24.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Total dividends from LNG projects in the Middle East, namely Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman, were ¥13.4 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.6 billion from the ¥12.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. There was a dividend from an investment company related to gains on sales of interests in telecommunication companies in Africa and increases in dividends from various domestic listed companies. Gains on Sales of Securities—Net The net realized gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥37.9 billion, an increase of ¥3.1 billion, or 8.9% from ¥34.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The following is a breakdown of main points related to net gains on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2006. Ÿ In the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment and the Americas Segment, we recorded a ¥5.5 billion gain on the sale of shares in Metro PCS, Inc. in the United States. We also reported a ¥3.3 billion gain from the exchange of shares in POWEREDCOM, Inc. for KDDI CORPORATION in Japan and a ¥2.0 billion gain on the sale of shares in P.T. Excelcomindo Pratama, Tbk in Indonesia. Ÿ In the Foods & Retail Segment, we reported a ¥4.2 billion gain from the exchange of shares of Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. in Japan for newly issued shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. in Japan, in connection with the establishment of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Ÿ We recorded a ¥2.8 billion gain on the sale of Iraqi Government Bonds which were acquired in exchange for commercial debt following the relevant international debt relief agreement. The following is a breakdown of the main points related to net gains on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ In the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment, we reported a ¥7.2 billion gain on the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K., a Japanese cell-phone carrier, in 76 response to a tender offer, and a ¥4.1 billion gain in Telepark Corp. (Japan), a subsidiary engaged in sales of mobile devices and fixed telecommunication lines, following its initial public offering on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Also in December 2004, in connection with the merger of a former associated company NextCom K.K. (Japan), a software development and marketing subsidiary BSI Co., Ltd., and a data telecommunications equipment marketing subsidiary ADAM NET Ltd., Mitsui was allotted shares in NextCom K.K. (Japan) in exchange for shares in two subsidiaries and recorded a ¥3.7 billion gain from the exchange of shares of those two subsidiaries. Ÿ In the Chemical Segment and the Other Overseas Areas Segment, we sold shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited (Thailand), a maker of high density polyethylene, and recorded a gain of ¥3.9 billion. Gain on Issuance of Stock by a Subsidiary As mentioned above in gains on sales of securities—net, Telepark Corp. (Japan) registered and issued 8,000 shares of common stock in an initial public offering on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange in April 2004. As a result of the public offering, our ownership interest in Telepark Corp. (Japan) decreased and we recognized a gain of ¥1.7 billion on this issuance as a separate line item in the Statements of Consolidated Income, under gain on issuance of stock by a subsidiary, in addition to a ¥4.1 billion gain on securities as discussed above. For further information, see Note 19, “ISSUANCE OF STOCK BY SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES.” Loss on Write-Down of Securities For the year ended March 31, 2006, the loss on write-down of securities was ¥10.6 billion, a decrease of ¥5.9 billion or 35.8%, from ¥16.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, the Japanese stock markets experienced repeated minor adjustments within a narrow range between a high of ¥12,163.89 and a low of ¥10,505.05 in the Nikkei Stock Average, due to surging crude oil prices, concern over worldwide inflation, appreciation of the yen and a slowdown in the United States economy while underpinned by hopes for recoveries of domestic and overseas economies and an expansion in corporate earnings. For the year ended March 31, 2006, the Japanese stock markets saw an upturn following the recovery of the Japanese economy and expanding corporate earnings with the Nikkei Stock Average at ¥17,059.66 as of March 31, 2006, compared to ¥11,668.95 as of March 31, 2005. Reflecting these developments in the stock market, the write-down of marketable securities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was small at ¥1.8 billion, a slight increase over ¥0.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. With respect to non-marketable securities, individual write-down losses were insignificant for the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2005, considering a deterioration in financial condition due to sluggish advertising revenues, we recorded losses on shares of satellite broadcaster BS-i, INCORPORATED (in Japan, not the same company as BSI Co., Ltd., listed under Gains on Sales of Securities—Net) and BS Japan Corporation in Japan of ¥1.9 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. MBK Australia Resorts Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reported a write-down of ¥1.7 billion based on the estimated sale price for its investment in the Mirage Resorts business in Australia. Gain on Disposal or Sales of Property and Equipment—Net Gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥6.0 billion, a decrease of ¥0.5 billion, or 7.7%, from a ¥6.5 billion gain for the year ended March 31, 2005. In the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui recorded a ¥5.6 billion gain on the sale of Mitsui’s company-owned welfare 77 facilities and a ¥1.3 billion gain on the sale of its corporate residences and dormitories. In the year ended March 31, 2005, in addition to a ¥3.2 billion gain from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories, there was a ¥1.8 billion gain from the sale of warehouses for lease by a logistics-related subsidiary, Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States). Properties sold in the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 had been acquired before the significant land price increase in Japan in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets The impairment loss on long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥36.1 billion, an increase of ¥15.5 billion or 75.2%, from ¥20.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2006 are as follows: Ÿ In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, we reported an ¥11.8 billion impairment loss on property and equipment owned by an aluminum smelting subsidiary, Mitalco Inc. (United States), reflecting the rising trend of electricity costs. Ÿ In the Foods & Retail Segment, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) recorded a ¥6.0 billion impairment loss on land and facilities which would be idle as a result of reorganization of distribution bases. Ÿ Mitsui and domestic subsidiaries recorded a total of ¥2.8 billion impairment losses on land for development and land for lease. Ÿ In the Americas Segment, NutriScience Technologies, Inc. (United States), a pet food flavor manufacturing company, reported a ¥1.6 billion impairment loss on plant facilities. The main elements for the year ended March 31, 2005 were as follows: Ÿ In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, we reported a ¥6.5 billion impairment loss on plant facilities at Mitalco Inc. (United States), reflecting the rising trend of electricity costs. Ÿ We recorded a ¥3.3 billion impairment loss on land for development purposes and a loss of ¥1.3 billion on land for lease, both held in Japan by Mitsui. Ÿ In the Energy Segment, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded an impairment loss of ¥2.3 billion mainly on gas stations. For more information on impairment losses on long-lived assets, see Note 10, “IMPAIRMENT LOSS OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS,” and on our reevaluation and restructuring of subsidiaries and associated companies, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Compensation and Other Charges Related to DPF Incident In November 2004, Mitsui discovered that false data had been produced and submitted to authorities for diesel particulate filters (“DPF”s) manufactured by Mitsui’s subsidiary, PUREarth Incorporated (Japan), and sold by Mitsui. These filters were subsidized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and seven other prefectural and municipal governments, as well as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of the Environment, and related industry associations. Mitsui had sold approximately 21,500 units of the product. Mitsui has carried out a three-part user response plan involving: (1) the free replacement of DPFs, (2) the reimbursement of the amount paid for purchasing Mitsui’s DPFs in exchange for their redemption and (3) a support program for the purchase of alternative vehicles, as well as redemption of DPFs. As a result of considerable efforts, we have redeemed more than 99% of the DPFs as of June 2006. In addition, Mitsui has completed full compensation of relevant subsidies. For the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui recorded ¥36.0 billion as compensation and other charges related to DPF incident in the Statements of Consolidated Income, consisting of a user response charge of approximately 78 ¥28.0 billion and subsidy compensation of approximately ¥8.0 billion. The user response charge was estimated based on expected costs in each user response plan, considering the requirement of each respective user as at March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui recorded an additional user response charge of ¥9.0 billion, re-estimating expected costs in each user response plan reflecting changes in the requirement of each respective user. For more information, see Note 22, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” Other Expense—Net For the year ended March 31, 2006, other expense—net was ¥9.9 billion, an increase of ¥1.9 billion, or 23.8%, from ¥8.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The main elements of other expenses—net for the year ended March 31, 2006 were as follows: Ÿ Mitalco Inc. (United States) recorded losses including a ¥2.8 billion loss on impairment of goodwill considering deterioration in the terms of the power purchase contract during the course of renewal negotiations. Ÿ Oil and gas development and production subsidiaries including Mitsui E&P Australia Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded ¥2.2 billion exploration expenses reflecting an expansion in exploration activities. Ÿ NutriScience Technologies, Inc. (United States) recorded ¥1.4 billion in restructuring-related charges. The main elements of other expense—net for the year ended March 31, 2005 were as follows: Ÿ Oil and gas development and production subsidiaries, including Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded ¥2.5 billion exploration expenses. Ÿ We recorded ¥2.0 billion restructuring-related charges, mainly representing costs related to the termination of an indemnity agreement which had been made in connection with the sale of a ceramic building materials and fiberboard business at Mitsui Wood Systems, Inc. (Japan) in October 2001. For more information on other expense—net, see Note 20, “OTHER EXPENSE—NET,” and on our restructuring activities, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Income Taxes For the year ended March 31, 2006, income taxes were ¥124.7 billion, an increase of ¥22.9 billion, or 22.5%, from ¥101.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The effective tax rate was 49.3%, a decrease of 10.9 points from 60.2% for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was mainly due to establishing a valuation allowance in a large amount for the year ended March 31, 2005 which was provided on deferred tax assets on the impairment loss of certain of Mitsui’s investments recorded in the past years, as a result of a change in a policy to sell certain investments. This factor represented a 10.6 point decline in effective tax rate in the year ended March 31, 2006. For further information, see Note 21, “INCOME TAXES.” Mitsui was under an audit by the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau with regard to transfer price taxation in connection with the North West Shelf LNG Project in Western Australia for the period of six fiscal years from the year ended March 31, 2000 to the year ended March 31, 2005. On June 30, 2006, Mitsui received a notice of tax assessment from the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau for the one year ended March 31, 2000. 79 According to the notice of tax assessment, the taxable income was corrected by ¥4.9 billion and the additional tax liabilities for the Corporation Tax, Enterprise Tax and Inhabitant Tax, including penalties and interests, are ¥2.4 billion. See Note 30, “UNAUDITED SUBSEQUENT EVENT.” These additional taxes and charges were reflected into the operating results for the first quarter of the year ending March 31, 2007. Following receipt of notice of tax assessment and payment of the relevant taxes and charges, Mitsui filed an appeal with the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau. Mitsui is currently preparing a request for a mutual agreement procedure pursuant to the provision in the tax treaty between Japan and Australia. While we are entirely unconvinced by the basis of tax assessment for this matter, we can not definitely predict the probability or amounts of any tax assessment for the remaining five fiscal years. Minority Interests in Earnings of Subsidiaries For the year ended March 31, 2006, minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries were ¥21.5 billion, an increase of ¥3.9 billion, or 22.2%, from ¥17.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors are provided below. Ÿ In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, Sesa Goa Limited (India) (with a minority interest of 49%) recorded a minority interest of ¥7.1 billion, an increase from ¥5.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, on the back of rises in iron ore prices. Ÿ In the Chemical Segment, P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia) (with a minority interest of 45%) recorded a minority interest of ¥2.5 billion, an increase from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, on the back of higher ammonia prices. Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2006, equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) was ¥94.2 billion, a significant increase of ¥29.9 billion, or 46.5%, from ¥64.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Among others, the Energy Segment and the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment recorded increases over their steady earnings for the year ended March 31, 2005, driven by rising prices and increasing transaction volume of energy and mineral resources. Ÿ In the Energy Segment, earnings increased at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty, Ltd. (Australia) which is involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in West Australia, due to rising oil prices and increased production from the start-up of the fourth LNG production train in August 2004. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) which is chiefly engaged in the production of gas and crude oil in offshore Thailand, also recorded an increase to ¥5.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 from ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to the rises in oil prices. Also, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings on rising crude oil prices. Ÿ In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, earnings of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), a holding company of the Brazilian iron ore and mineral resources company Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”), and Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia), an iron ore mining company, increased to ¥14.6 billion and ¥9.0 billion, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2006, from ¥6.4 billion and ¥4.8 billion, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ In the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, a full-year contribution of IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom), which became an associated company (equity method investee) from the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, resulted in an increase in earnings. 80 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations—Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2006, income (loss) from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) was income of ¥1.2 billion, a ¥6.0 billion decrease from income of ¥7.2 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ The primary component of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2006 was Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), a crude oil trading subsidiary reported in the Energy Segment and the Europe Segment. While Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. had been trading physical crude oil as well as future oil and oil derivatives, its expanding activity under booming oil prices exposed us to larger risks, such as market risk, and would require us to invest additional operating resources. As a result of an overall review of the business model of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. and our business portfolio, we decided to sell all the shares of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. to a new owner. We sold all shares during the year ended March 31, 2006. The income from discontinued operation of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. was minimal for the year ended March 31, 2006 and ¥6.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ The primary component of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2005 is Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. (Japan), a subsidiary reported in the All Other Segment. Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. had been engaged in the operation of a membership golf club in Japan, which had reported consecutive losses since the opening of the golf club because both the number of customers and the average sale per customer had declined. In these business conditions, as it was very unlikely that Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. would be able to improve its earnings and pay off its debts in the future, Mitsui disposed of other than by sales the operation during the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, the income from discontinued operation of Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. was ¥0.7 billion, partially reversing losses in previous years. For additional information about our discontinued operations, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.” Summary of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Operating Environment The global economy continued the steady improvement that began in the middle of the year ended March 31, 2004. Principal developments in the economic environment that influenced our results of operations during the year ended March 31, 2005 included the following: Ÿ The global economy expanded steadily, driven by growth in the United States as well as emerging countries in Asia, particularly China, and other regions. Contributing factors included higher consumption and housing investment resulting from historically low interest rates as well as acceleration of demand for motor vehicles and firm infrastructure developments in emerging economies. Ÿ These factors contributed to a substantial increase in global trade, supported by very strong demand from Asia, particularly China, and spurred the rising trend in commodity prices such as crude oil, iron ore, coal and non-ferrous metals since the previous fiscal year. Ÿ The Japanese economy continued to recover in the first half of the year under review, underpinned by strong exports to high-growth areas of Asia, and higher capital expenditure as corporate earnings improved in Japan. In the second half of the fiscal year, however, economic recovery slowed down especially in the manufacturing sector in response to inventory adjustments in the home electronic equipment and IT-related markets as well as concerns about oil price rise. Ÿ The Bank of Japan continued its quantitative easing policy, and short-term interest rates remained very low. In the United States, meanwhile, the FRB began progressively raising interest rates beginning in June 2004 in order to restrain inflationary expectations. 81 Summary of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2005, we recorded net income of ¥121.1 billion, an increase of ¥52.7 billion, or 77.0%, from ¥68.4 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004. As outlined below, gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies made significant contributions, while the increase in net other income and expenses was relatively small. Ÿ Gross profit increased by ¥97.9 billion, or 16.0%, to ¥708.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared with ¥611.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Overseas subsidiaries in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment generated higher gross profit due to price rises and increased shipments of iron ore and coal while gross profit grew in the Energy Segment supported by higher crude oil prices. In addition, market transactions in areas such as commodity derivatives and oil trading performed well. Ÿ Net other income and expenses increased ¥22.3 billion, or 4.3%, to ¥539.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared to ¥517.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. — Compensation and other charges related to DPF incident of ¥36.0 billion was recorded for user response plans including free product replacement and compensation for relevant subsidy providers relating to DPFs, which is discussed in “Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2005—Compensation and Other Charges Related to DPF incident” below. — Selling, general and administrative expenses increased ¥20.2 billion in the year ended March 31, 2005, largely because there was no government grant for the transfer of the substitutional portion of the EPF, compared to ¥17.2 billion recorded in the year ended March 31, 2004. — With regard to loss on write-down of securities and other expense—net, the figures recorded in these categories for the year under review reflect the absence of large one-time expenses such as those recorded in the year ended March 31, 2004 of ¥21.7 billion for the write-down of securities relating to investment in the Japanese telecommunications carrier POWERDCOM, Inc. and ¥13.7 billion for the settlement of an antitrust lawsuit filed against a feed ingredient manufacturing subsidiary Bioproducts, Inc. (United States). Ÿ Equity in earnings of associated companies rose by ¥24.2 billion, or 60.3%, to ¥64.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared with ¥40.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. As was the case with gross profit, this reflected the strong performance of associated companies in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and the Energy Segment that benefited from the rise in commodity prices. Due to the increase in gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies outlined above, net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 from overseas subsidiaries and associated companies reached ¥117.9 billion, significantly higher than ¥53.5 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004. During the year ended March 31, 2005, the U.S. dollar continued to weaken against the yen, against a background of worsening current account and federal deficits and higher oil prices. The average U.S. dollar-yen exchange rate during the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥107.60 = U.S.$1, representing yen appreciation of ¥5.16, or 4.6%, over the average rate during the year ended March 31, 2004 of ¥112.76 = U.S.$1. 82 Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 as Compared to the Year Ended March 31, 2004 Revenues Sales of Products During the year ended March 31, 2005, sales of products were ¥2,964.1 billion, an increase of ¥485.6 billion, or 19.6%, from ¥2,478.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The major reasons classified by products are as follows: Ÿ Revenues from sales of Chemicals rose ¥208.1 billion principally because of increases in Mitsui’s sales of petrochemical products, reflecting higher prices for petroleum products due to higher crude oil prices, and increases in volume driven by the strong demand in China and other Asian countries. Ÿ Revenues from sales of Energy increased by ¥86.3 billion. The average crude oil price (basis of Japan Crude Cocktail) during the year ended March 31, 2005 was U.S.$36 per barrel, compared to U.S.$29 for the year ended March 31, 2004, driven by strong demand from China and uncertainty in supply from the Middle East and other areas. In this environment, revenues from sales of crude oil and oil products increased at Westport Petroleum Inc. (United States) and revenues increased domestically as oil product sales companies, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. (Japan) were able to transfer higher crude oil cost in their wholesale and retail pricing. Ÿ Revenues from sales of Iron and Steel increased ¥85.4 billion. In the year ended March 31, 2005, with long-term contract prices for iron ore 18.6% higher than in the year ended March 31, 2004, subsidiaries in mineral resources business such as Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) achieved higher revenues. Also, supported by a strong market for steel products in North America, China and elsewhere in Asia, Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States), engaged in oil pipe sales, recorded higher revenues. Sales of Services Sales of services include the revenues from trading margins and commissions related to various trading transactions in which we act as a principal or an agent. Specifically, we charge a commission for the performance of various services such as logistic and warehouse services, information and communication services and technical support. For some back-to-back sales and purchase transactions of products, we act as a principal and record the net amount of sales and purchase prices as revenues. We also facilitate conclusion of the contracts between manufacturers and customers and deliveries of the products between suppliers and customers. For the year ended March 31, 2005, sales of services were ¥434.1 billion, an increase of ¥10.8 billion, or 2.6%, from ¥423.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Principal reasons for this increase included higher revenues from information and communications services accompanying the acquisition of former associated company NextCom K.K. (Japan) during the year ended March 31, 2005, and strong performance in cell phone sales at Telepark Corp. (Japan). Other Sales Other sales principally include the revenues from derivative commodity instruments and derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes, the revenues from leasing activities of real estate, aircraft, ocean transport vessels, rolling stock and equipment and the revenues from external consumer financing. For the year ended March 31, 2005, other sales were ¥96.4 billion, an increase of ¥27.7 billion, or 40.3%, from ¥68.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, which was primarily attributable to: Ÿ Derivative trading revenues were ¥32.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥13.6 billion from ¥18.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The principal reason for this increase was strong energy derivatives trading at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) in the context of extremely high volatility in the crude oil market; and 83 Ÿ Leasing revenues were ¥55.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥13.2 billion from ¥42.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Gross Profit Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues For the year ended March 31, 2005, gross profit was ¥708.9 billion, an increase of ¥97.9 billion, or 16.0%, from ¥611.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The GP ratio for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 20.3%, a decrease of 0.3 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Changes in gross profit and GP ratio classified by category of revenues are set forth below: Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross Profit GP Ratio Gross Profit GP Ratio Gross Profit GP Ratio Gross Profit from Sales of Products ¥ 293.9 9.9 % ¥ 195.2 7.9 % ¥ 98.7 2.0 % Gross Profit from Sales of Services 365.3 84.2 % 382.2 90.3 % (16.9 ) (6.1 )% Gross Profit from Other Sales 49.7 51.6 % 33.6 48.9 % 16.1 2.7 % Total ¥ 708.9 20.3 % ¥ 611.0 20.6 % ¥ 97.9 (0.3 )% The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 9.9%, an increase of 2.0 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was mainly due to the rate of increase in revenue at our natural resources development subsidiaries outpacing the rate of increase in costs of revenues, due to the surge in prices for natural resources. In particular, Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), both of which are engaged in the development and production of iron ore, saw significant increases in gross profit driven by rising prices of iron ore, as did Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) which is engaged in the development and production of metallurgical coal and thermal coal. In the product of energy, gross profit increased at Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) which is engaged in development and production of crude oil in Oman due to a major rise in crude oil prices. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 84.2%, a decrease of 6.1 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. This decrease was mainly due to a relative increase in transactions where the total billed amounts were reported as revenues, compared to transactions where the net amount of sales and purchase prices were reported as revenues with GP ratios of 100%. Specifically, NextCom K.K. (Japan), formerly an associated company, became a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, which resulted in an increase in the transactions for which gross billed amounts are reported as revenue in network configuration, operation and maintenance services. Also at Mitsui, an increase in such transactions was recorded in the logistic services business. Moreover, at Mitsui and many of its subsidiaries, transactions reported based on net amounts, where we assume a low degree of related risks and rewards declined relatively. The GP ratio in other sales for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 51.6%, an increase of 2.7 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was mainly due to a major increase in revenues from derivative commodity instruments held for trading purpose reported in net amount, principally an increase in revenues from energy derivative transactions at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) and commodities derivative and foreign exchange transactions at Mitsui, generally driven by the extremely high volatility in the crude oil markets. 84 Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment For the year ended March 31, 2005, the growth in gross profit was attributable to the operating segments as set forth below: Ÿ The Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment recorded significant increases, as the market for metal raw materials rose on strong demand from Asia, particularly China, along with an increase in transaction volume. For the year ended March 31, 2005, iron ore prices under long term contracts rose 18.6%. Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded major increases. And Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia), which is involved in the development of metallurgical coal and thermal coal, also increased gross profit. Ÿ In the Energy Segment, Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) generated significant profit increases as a result of focusing on crude oil trading after reporting losses on petroleum product trading in the year ended March 31, 2004. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), which is engaged in crude oil production in Oman, and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia), our crude oil and condensate focused subsidiary, saw increased gross profit reflecting rising oil prices. • In the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) generated increases in energy derivative trading reflecting the extremely high volatility in the crude oil market. Mitsui’s commodities derivative and foreign exchange transactions also produced good results. Ÿ In the Iron and Steel Products Segment, Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. (Singapore) and Mitsui recorded increases, as the market for steel products rose on strong demand from Asia, particularly in China. Steel products operations for the year ended March 31, 2005 generally maintained similar levels of transaction volume to the year ended March 31, 2004, amid price rises and tight demand. Ÿ In the Foods & Retail Segment, Mitsui’s commodity trading including grain and raw sugar contributed to the increase in gross profit. Moreover, as Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) became a subsidiary from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2005—the first year of a full-year contribution—rose ¥5.1 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. The Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment was firm on the sale of large-scale commercial facilities and residential subdivisions by MBK Real Estate Ltd. (United States), along with NextCom K.K. (Japan) which became a subsidiary from the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ In the Americas Segment, there were broad expansions in gross profit at steel product subsidiaries including Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc. (United States) driven by active demand and firm market prices. Portac, Inc. (United States), our lumber and lumber products subsidiary, also saw increased gross profit on surging lumber prices. Gross profit rose ¥19.9 billion for subsidiaries acquired or established from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004 to the end of the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Those subsidiaries include NextCom K.K. (Japan), formerly an associated company which became a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, and Mitsui Norin Co. Ltd. (Japan) as mentioned above. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥509.6 billion, an increase of ¥20.2 billion, or 4.1%, from ¥489.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main reasons for this change are listed below: Ÿ Personnel expenses were ¥250.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, a decrease of ¥7.2 billion from ¥258.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Personnel expenses at Mitsui improved significantly because of a ¥19.2 billion reduction in amortization of unrecognized net actuarial loss, and 85 operating results for the year ended March 31, 2005 were not impacted by a ¥10.5 billion settlement loss recorded during the year ended March 31, 2004 in relation to the completion of the transfer to the Japanese government of the substitutional portion of the Mitsui’s EPF. Meanwhile, there was a considerable increase in personnel expenses mainly at overseas subsidiaries. Especially, personnel expenses at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), on the back of major increases in gross profit from commodities trading, rose ¥4.6 billion due to large increases in performance linked bonuses to traders. Ÿ Communication and information expenses were ¥38.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥5.1 billion over ¥33.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase resulted from the introduction of a new enterprise resource planning system and implementation of a total overhaul of office automation equipment in Mitsui. Ÿ Selling, general and administrative expenses other than personnel and communication and information expenses were ¥174.8 billion in the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥22.0 billion from ¥152.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. There was an increased expense of ¥7.4 billion at domestic subsidiaries, mainly due to the ¥3.0 billion increases at the above-mentioned Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan). Telepark Corp. (Japan) also recorded an increase of ¥1.9 billion reflecting the expanded cell phone business. Overseas subsidiaries recorded an increase of ¥7.9 billion, including ¥1.0 billion at P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia), reflecting an expansion in business activities. There was also an increased expense of ¥6.4 billion including office administration costs and various stamp duties. In the same manner as gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses rose ¥14.6 billion at subsidiaries acquired or established from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004 to the end of the year ended March 31, 2005. Provision for Doubtful Receivables Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥8.8 billion, a reduction of ¥1.1 billion, or 11.1%, from ¥9.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. In both years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, provision for doubtful receivables consisted mainly of individually small provisions for a number of customers. Of those, the major provisions for doubtful receivables in the year ended March 31, 2005 included a ¥0.9 billion provision for a machinery-related domestic customer, while overseas there was a ¥0.8 billion provision for an overseas customer of Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom). The major provisions for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2004 included provisions against overseas customers for machinery related transactions, and provisions for domestic and overseas customers in the steel products business. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥35.5 billion, an increase of ¥5.5 billion, or 18.3%, from the ¥30.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Interest expenses were ¥43.4 billion, an increase of ¥7.8 billion, or 21.9%, from ¥35.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income was ¥7.9 billion, an increase of ¥2.3 billion, or 41.1%, from ¥5.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. A breakdown of the principal changes for the year ended March 31, 2005 is as follows: Ÿ At Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. (Netherlands), investments increased to Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), and interest expenses rose ¥1.8 billion on the resultant increase in borrowings; and Ÿ Interest expenses at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. (United States) rose ¥1.7 billion reflecting a rise in U.S. dollar interest rates. 86 Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2005 for the Japanese yen and U.S. dollar, the major currencies in which we have borrowings, are as follows: Ÿ The average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month LIBOR remained 0.05%, roughly unchanged from the 0.06% during the year ended March 31, 2004, as the Bank of Japan maintained its existing very low interest rate policy. The average interest rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.52%, rising from the 1.16% during the year ended March 31, 2004, as yields slipped gradually in line with the emergence of perceptions of a slowing in the business cycle, after a rise to 1.9% in June 2004 on the back of an improvement in global business sentiment; and Ÿ The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2005 was 2.13%, up from the 1.16% during the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting the gradual rise in the Federal Funds target rate to 3.0% by the FRB in the period between June 2004 and May 2005, even as the FRB maintained its easing stance. Dividend Income Our dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥24.6 billion, an increase of ¥6.2 billion, or 33.7%, from ¥18.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Dividends from LNG projects in the Middle East (Abu Dhabi, Oman and Qatar) were ¥12.8 billion, a ¥4.7 billion increase from the ¥8.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting their strong performance due to higher oil prices. Government Grant for Transfer of Substitutional Portion of EPF On March 12, 2004, Mitsui completed the transfer of the substitutional portion of EPF, which is a defined benefit pension program established under the Welfare Pension Insurance Law, to the Japanese government. As a result, in the year ended March 31, 2004 a government grant for transfer of the substitutional portion of EPF of ¥17.2 billion was recorded. The grant represents the difference between the accumulated benefit obligations settled with regard to the substitutional portion and the related government-specified portion of the plan assets that were transferred. For information concerning the accounting for the transfer of the substitutional portion of EPF, see Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES.” Gain on Sales of Securities—Net The net realized gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥34.8 billion, an increase of ¥7.3 billion, or 26.5% from ¥27.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The following is a breakdown of main points related to net gains on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ In the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment, we reported a ¥7.2 billion gain on the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K., a Japanese cell-phone carrier, in response to a tender offer, and a ¥4.1 billion gain in Telepark Corp. (Japan), a subsidiary engaged in sales of mobile devices and fixed telecommunication lines, following its initial public offering on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Also in December 2004, in connection with the merger of a former associated company NextCom K.K., a software development and marketing subsidiary BSI Co., Ltd., and a data telecommunications equipment marketing subsidiary ADAM NET Ltd., Mitsui was allotted shares in NextCom K.K. (Japan) in exchange for shares in two subsidiaries and recorded a ¥3.7 billion gain from the exchange of shares of those two subsidiaries. Ÿ In the Chemical Segment and the Other Overseas Areas Segment, we sold shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited (Thailand), a maker of high density polyethylene, and recorded a gain of ¥3.9 billion. 87 In the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a gain of ¥6.7 billion from the sale of shares of SKY Perfect Communications Inc. in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment, a gain of ¥4.4 billion from the sale of Caemi Mineraçã o e Metalurgia S.A. in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, and a gain of ¥1.0 billion from the sale of MODEC Inc. in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. Gain on Issuance of Stock by a Subsidiary This was reported for the year ended March 31, 2005 only. For information, see “Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2006.” Loss on Write-Down of Securities For the year ended March 31, 2005, the loss on write-down of securities was ¥16.5 billion, a decrease of ¥14.5 billion, or 46.8%, from the ¥31.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Stock prices in Japan started to rebound around May 2003 as the Japanese government’s decision to inject funds into certain banks reduced concerns about the stability of the financial system. Stocks continued to recover towards the end of March 2004 supported by improvements in corporate profits and gradual economic recovery. For the year ended March 31, 2005, within a narrow range between a high of ¥12,163.89 and a low of ¥10,505.05 in the Nikkei Stock Average, the Japanese stock markets experienced repeated minor adjustments due to surging crude oil prices, concern over worldwide inflation, appreciation of the yen and a slowdown in the United States economy. However, the stock markets were underpinned by hopes for recoveries of domestic and overseas economies and an expansion in corporate profits. The Nikkei Stock Average closed at ¥11,668.95, ¥11,715.39, and ¥7,972.71 on March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Reflecting these developments in the stock market, the write-down of marketable securities for the year ended March 31, 2005 reduced slightly to ¥0.6 billion from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. With respect to non-marketable securities, considering a deterioration in financial condition due to sluggish advertising revenue, we recorded losses on shares of satellite broadcaster BS-i, INCORPORATED (not the same company as BSI Co., Ltd., listed under Gains on Sales of Securities—Net) and BS Japan Corporation of ¥1.9 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. MBK Australia Resorts Pty, Ltd. (Australia) reported a write-down of ¥1.7 billion based on the estimated sale price for its investment in the Mirage Resorts business in Australia. There were also other instances of small losses. For the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a ¥21.7 billion loss on shares in POWEREDCOM, Inc, a Japanese telecommunications company, in consideration of the deterioration in its financial position, reflecting the operating loss caused by fierce price competition along with expansion of the Internet and the decrease in revenues from fixed-line business. Setting aside the ¥1.5 billion loss on shares in Mitsui Denman (Ireland) Co., Ltd., write-downs of other non-marketable securities were not significant. Gain on Disposal or Sales of Property and Equipment—Net For the year ended March 31, 2005, gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net was ¥6.5 billion, an increase of ¥2.4 billion, or 58.5%, over ¥4.1 billion in the year ended March 31, 2004. In addition to a ¥3.2 billion gain from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories, there was a ¥1.8 billion gain from the sale of warehouses for lease by a logistics-related subsidiary, Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States). For the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a ¥5.7 billion gain from the sale of our corporate residences and dormitories. Properties sold in the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 had been acquired long before the significant land price increase in Japan in the late 1980s and early 1990s. We also recorded small losses on the sale of aircraft and gas stations for the year ended March 31, 2004. 88 Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets The impairment loss on long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥20.6 billion, a ¥0.4 billion, or 2.0% decrease from ¥20.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2005 were as follows: Ÿ In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, we reported a ¥6.5 billion impairment loss on plant facilities at an aluminum smelting subsidiary, Mitalco Inc. (United States), reflecting the rising trend of electricity costs. Ÿ We recorded a ¥3.3 billion impairment loss on land for development purposes and a loss of ¥1.3 billion on land for lease, both held in Japan by Mitsui. Ÿ In the Energy Segment, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded an impairment loss of ¥2.3 billion mainly on gas stations. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2004 were as follows: Ÿ Impairment losses on Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories of ¥8.0 billion were recorded due to a decline in land prices in Japan. The corporate residences and dormitories on which we recorded impairment losses during the year ended March 31, 2004 had been acquired mainly in the early 1990s. Ÿ In the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, there were impairment losses of ¥4.3 billion that resulted from the exit from and disposal of certain business at NBI Corporation (formerly Toyo Valve Co., Ltd.) and Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. Ÿ In the Energy Segment, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported ¥1.7 billion in impairment losses in connection with the restructuring of its gas stations. For more information on impairment losses on long-lived assets, see Note 10, “IMPAIRMENT LOSS OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS,” and on our reevaluation and restructuring of subsidiaries and associated companies, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Compensation and Other Charges Related to DPF Incident For the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui recorded ¥36.0 billion as compensation and other charges related to DPF incident in the Statements of Consolidated Income, consisting of a user response charge of ¥28.0 billion and subsidy compensation of ¥8.0 billion. The user response charge was estimated based on expected costs in each user response plan, which reflects the requirement of each respective user. The subsidy compensation was recorded based on the amounts claimed by subsidy providers. For more information, see Note 22, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” Other Expense—Net For the year ended March 31, 2005, other expense—net was ¥8.0 billion, a significant decrease of ¥20.7 billion, or 72.1%, from ¥28.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main elements of other expense—net for the year ended March 31, 2005 were as follows. Ÿ Oil and gas development and production subsidiaries, including Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded ¥2.5 billion exploration expenses. Ÿ We recorded ¥2.0 billion restructuring-related charges, mainly representing costs related to the termination of an indemnity agreement which had been made in connection with the sale of a ceramic building materials and fiberboard business at Mitsui Wood Systems, Inc. (Japan) in October 2001. 89 Other expense—net for the year ended March 31, 2004 mainly consisted of the following elements. Ÿ We recorded litigation charges of ¥13.7 billion related to the settlement of an antitrust lawsuit filed against our subsidiary, Bioproducts, Inc. (United States), which manufactures and sells feed ingredient. Ÿ We recorded ¥6.3 billion restructuring-related charges, of which main elements included a combined ¥3.7 billion for Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. (Japan) and NBI Corporation (Japan) in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. For more information on other expense—net, see Note 20, “OTHER EXPENSE—NET,” and on our restructuring activities, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Income Taxes For the year ended March 31, 2005, income taxes amounted to ¥101.8 billion, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before minority interests and equity in earnings, and recorded a major rise of ¥55.1 billion, or 118.0%, from ¥46.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The effective tax rate was 60.2%, an increase of 10.2 points from 50.0% for the year ended March 31, 2004. This was mainly due to the impact of: Ÿ increases in valuation allowance provided on deferred tax assets (an increase of 6.5 points over the year ended March 31, 2004), due mainly to the increase in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets on the impairment loss of certain of Mitsui’s investments recorded in the past years as a result of a change in a policy to sell certain investments; and Ÿ increases in the effect of taxation on dividends (an increase of 6.2 points from the year ended March 31, 2004). For further information, see Note 21, “INCOME TAXES.” Minority Interests in Earnings of Subsidiaries Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥17.6 billion, an increase of ¥10.2 billion, or 137.8%, from ¥7.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Our major minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥5.0 billion in Sesa Goa Limited (India) (with a minority interest of 49%) and ¥2.9 billion in Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) (with a minority interest of 38.1%) that owns an interest in a Chilean copper mine joint venture, Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile). Our major minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2004 were ¥1.5 billion in Sesa Goa Limited and ¥0.7 billion in Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Increases for the year ended March 31, 2005 were primarily attributable to the strong performances of the above-mentioned two subsidiaries on the back of rises in prices of mineral resources. Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2005, equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) posted a gain of ¥64.3 billion, a significant increase of ¥24.2 billion, or 60.3%, from ¥40.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Ÿ Since the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), a holding company of the Brazilian iron ore and mineral resources company, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”), have been included. In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, earnings of Valepar S.A. and Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) increased to ¥6.4 billion and ¥7.8 billion, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared to ¥2.5 billion and ¥1.9 billion, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2004. 90 Ÿ In the Energy Segment, earnings increased significantly at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty Ltd. (Australia) which is involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in West Australia, due to rising oil prices and increased production on the back of facility expansion. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) which is chiefly engaged in the production of gas and crude oil in offshore Thailand, also recorded an increase to ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, mainly due to rises in oil prices. Also, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings on rising crude oil prices and an increase in production volume. Ÿ In the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia) posted earnings of ¥2.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, continuing the firm performance seen for the year ended March 31, 2004. Automobile sales associated companies overseas continued to show solid performance for the year ended March 31, 2005. There was also a new contribution of ¥1.1 billion from United Auto Group Inc. (United States), an automobile dealer which became an associated company during the year ended March 31, 2005. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations—Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2005, income (loss) from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) was income of ¥7.2 billion, a ¥15.9 billion improvement from the loss of ¥8.7 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004. The primary components of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2005 are as follows: Ÿ Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. (Japan), a subsidiary reported in the All Other Segment, had been engaged in the operation of a membership golf club in Japan, which had reported consecutive losses since the opening of the golf club because both the number of customers and the average sale per customer had declined. In these business conditions, as it was very unlikely that Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. would be able to improve its earnings and pay off its debts in the future, Mitsui disposed of other than by sales the operation during the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, the income from discontinued operation of Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. was ¥0.7 billion, partially reversing losses in previous years. A breakdown of operations discontinued for the year ended March 31, 2004 was as follows: • Takeoka Golf Club, a domestic subsidiary in the All Other Segment, which had been engaged in the operation of a public golf club in Japan, suffered from a declining number of visitors due to keen competition with other golf clubs adjacent to the golf club and was disposed of by sale during the year ended March 31, 2004. The business was disposed of and we recorded ¥3.5 billion in losses—net (after income tax effect). We also posted a loss from disposal of Global Octanes Corporation (United States) and other two subsidiaries, which had managed Global Octanes Texas Limited Partnership, and had been engaged in the manufacture and sale of Methyl Tertiary-Butyl Ether (“MTBE”), as its partners, but had dissolved the partnership and disposed of the operations during the year ended March 31, 2004. For additional information about our discontinued operations, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.” Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle (After Income Tax Effect) On April 1, 2003, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” SFAS No. 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the related cost by increasing the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. We recognized the cumulative effect of the initial application of SFAS No. 143 as a separate line item in the Statements of Consolidated Income under “Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle (After Income Tax Effect)” amounting to ¥2.3 billion 91 including our share of amounts attributable to associated companies. This represents the difference between the net amount that was recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets upon the retroactive application of SFAS No. 143 as of April 1, 2003 and the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at that date prior to the application of SFAS No. 143. The asset retirement obligations are principally related to the costs of dismantling and removing mining facilities and gas production facilities owned by subsidiaries and associated companies in Australia, which are engaged in mining operations or oil and gas producing activities. For additional information about the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, see Note 11, “ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS.” Operating Results by Operating Segment The business units of Mitsui’s Head Office, which are organized based on “products and services,” plan overall and worldwide strategies for their products and services and conduct their worldwide operations. The business units also collaborate with overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries in planning and executing their strategies for products and regions. The overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries are separate operating units, which are delegated responsibility for the business of their regions as the centers of each particular regional strategy and operate diversified businesses together with their subsidiaries and associated companies in collaboration with the business units. Therefore, our operating segments consist of product-focused operating segments comprised of the business units of the Head Office and region-focused operating segments comprised of overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries. Our operating segments have been aggregated based on the nature of the products and other criteria into eight product-focused reportable operating segments and four region-focused reportable operating segments, totaling twelve reportable operating segments. As we focus on mineral resources and energy projects as core areas of investment, “Iron & Steel Products” and “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals” have been promoting business more independently than before; therefore, these operating segments, which had been aggregated in former “Metal Products & Minerals,” are now presented as separate product-focused reportable segments, starting from the year ended March 31, 2006. Also, identifying consumer service businesses as a growing and strengthening business area, we have been combining business experience and expertise of Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit which had been included in former “Machinery, Electronics & Information” and business units which had been included in former “Consumer Products & Services,” in order to promote a broad range of business opportunities in the emerging markets such as media/information, outsourcing, retail support and medical/health/seniors, and to develop consumer-oriented service businesses as a new source of core earnings. Accordingly, with regard to the business units which had been included in former “Consumer Products & Services,” Lifestyle Business Unit and Consumer Service Business Unit, which aim to provide highly value-added products and services to consumers, as well as distribution and intermediary services, by converging products, services and information-technology function, are aggregated with Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit and disclosed as “Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication.” “Foods & Retail,” which aims to meet diversifying needs of retailers with comprehensive services while investing and participating in managing of retailers, is presented as a separated product-focused reportable segment. Machinery Business Unit and Infrastructure Projects Business Unit, which had been included in former “Machinery, Electronics & Information,” are presented as “Machinery & Infrastructure Projects.” In order to develop new business opportunities emerging with the development of network economies based around China, ASEAN and India, we introduced an Asian Regional Managing Directorship system. Broad authority and responsibility to manage our businesses throughout Asia excluding Japan is delegated to the Regional Managing Director, Asia starting from the year ended March 31, 2006. Based on this change, business 92 in Asia other than Japan, which had been included in “Other Overseas Areas”, is presented as a separate region-focused reportable operating segment. The operating segment information for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 has been restated to conform to the current year presentation. Further, starting from the year ended March 31, 2005, equity in earnings of associated companies has been disclosed, since this item was newly included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. In this section, for the convenience of readers to compare equity in earnings of associated companies by operating segment for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the breakdowns for the year ended March 31, 2004 are additionally provided. Our operating segment information for gross profit, operating income (loss), equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies and net income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows: Operating Segment Information Gross Profit Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change(2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 54.4 ¥ 47.3 ¥ 34.7 ¥ 7.1 ¥ 12.6 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 110.8 74.2 42.3 36.6 31.9 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 90.6 82.9 80.3 7.7 2.6 Chemical 97.8 87.1 91.1 10.7 (4.0 ) Energy 84.7 72.6 54.6 12.1 18.0 Foods & Retail 79.9 85.3 73.7 (5.4 ) 11.6 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 128.4 121.7 110.6 6.7 11.1 Logistics & Financial Markets 51.4 46.7 32.3 4.7 14.4 Americas 61.6 49.9 40.7 11.7 9.2 Europe 22.4 20.6 20.0 1.8 0.6 Asia 27.4 21.8 19.9 5.6 1.9 Other Overseas Areas 4.9 4.0 4.2 0.9 (0.2 ) Total 814.3 714.1 604.4 100.2 109.7 All Other 7.1 12.4 10.4 (5.3 ) 2.0 Adjustments and Eliminations (4.8 ) (17.6 ) (3.8 ) 12.8 (13.8 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 816.6 ¥ 708.9 ¥ 611.0 ¥ 107.7 ¥ 97.9 93 Operating Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2006–2005) Change(2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 26.5 ¥ 16.3 ¥ 6.9 ¥ 10.2 ¥ 9.4 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 87.2 51.9 21.8 35.3 30.1 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 21.7 21.6 22.1 0.1 (0.5 ) Chemical 34.0 24.6 31.4 9.4 (6.8 ) Energy 52.0 35.4 21.7 16.6 13.7 Foods & Retail 9.1 17.8 13.4 (8.7 ) 4.4 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 25.0 24.0 17.2 1.0 6.8 Logistics & Financial Markets 17.6 18.5 10.4 (0.9 ) 8.1 Americas 21.7 14.7 8.5 7.0 6.2 Europe 4.1 2.4 3.0 1.7 (0.6 ) Asia 10.7 7.8 5.7 2.9 2.1 Other Overseas Areas 1.0 0.4 0.9 0.6 (0.5 ) Total 310.6 235.4 163.0 75.2 72.4 All Other (3.0 ) (0.5 ) (1.9 ) (2.5 ) 1.4 Adjustments and Eliminations (41.8 ) (44.4 ) (32.1 ) 2.6 (12.3 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 265.8 ¥ 190.5 ¥ 129.0 ¥ 75.3 ¥ 61.5 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2006–2005) Change(2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 3.0 ¥ 1.7 ¥ 0.8 ¥ 1.3 ¥ 0.9 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 28.7 20.7 7.8 8.0 12.9 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 14.6 10.0 5.1 4.6 4.9 Chemical 3.2 2.5 (1.2 ) 0.7 3.7 Energy 33.8 24.5 14.5 9.3 10.0 Foods & Retail 3.5 2.2 3.3 1.3 (1.1 ) Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information,Electronics & Telecommunication 3.5 (0.3 ) 5.5 3.8 (5.8 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 4.0 2.5 0.2 1.5 2.3 Americas 2.1 1.6 (2.5 ) 0.5 4.1 Europe (0.2 ) 0.1 0.2 (0.3 ) (0.1 ) Asia 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.0 (0.1 ) Other Overseas Areas 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total 96.9 66.0 34.1 30.9 31.9 All Other 0.3 0.4 (0.1 ) (0.1 ) 0.5 Adjustments and Eliminations (3.0 ) (2.1 ) 6.1 (0.9 ) (8.2 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 94.2 ¥ 64.3 ¥ 40.1 ¥ 29.9 ¥ 24.2 94 Net Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2006–2005) Change(2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 19.3 ¥ 11.6 ¥ 5.5 ¥ 7.7 ¥ 6.1 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 54.7 35.4 18.7 19.3 16.7 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 30.6 20.9 11.0 9.7 9.9 Chemical 12.1 (6.8 ) 11.4 18.9 (18.2 ) Energy 40.9 42.8 24.4 (1.9 ) 18.4 Foods & Retail (3.2 ) 10.6 10.6 (13.8 ) 0.0 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 17.5 11.8 3.2 5.7 8.6 Logistics & Financial Markets 13.4 11.8 4.8 1.6 7.0 Americas 12.6 12.3 0.2 0.3 12.1 Europe 4.9 2.9 0.7 2.0 2.2 Asia 9.3 8.0 6.3 1.3 1.7 Other Overseas Areas 14.3 5.8 4.1 8.5 1.7 Total 226.4 167.1 100.9 59.3 66.2 All Other 11.2 4.4 1.9 6.8 2.5 Adjustments and Eliminations (35.2 ) (50.4 ) (34.4 ) 15.2 (16.0 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 202.4 ¥ 121.1 ¥ 68.4 ¥ 81.3 ¥ 52.7 Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income (loss) reflects our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses, (c) provision for doubtful receivables and (d) government grant for transfer of substitutional portion of EPF, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. Iron & Steel Products Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2006–2005) Change(2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 54.4 ¥ 47.3 ¥ 34.7 ¥ 7.1 ¥ 12.6 Operating Income 26.5 16.3 6.9 10.2 9.4 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 3.0 1.7 0.8 1.3 0.9 Net Income 19.3 11.6 5.5 7.7 6.1 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Iron & Steel Products Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥54.4 billion, an increase of ¥7.1 billion from ¥47.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2006, worldwide demand for steel products in general continued to stay firm. Transactions in steel tubular products such as oil pipes executed under tight supply-demand conditions reflecting higher oil prices; and high-end steel plates for shipbuilding and automobiles contributed to the increase in gross profit, especially at Mitsui, although we saw weakening market conditions mainly in commodity type steel products arising from excessive supply from China towards the second half of the year ended March 31, 2006. 95 Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥26.5 billion, an increase of ¥10.2 billion from ¥16.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the above-mentioned increase in gross profit and decrease in the provision for doubtful receivables. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.3 billion from ¥1.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, due to contributions by domestic companies. Reflecting the above, net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥19.3 billion, a ¥7.7 billion increase from ¥11.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Iron & Steel Products Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥47.3 billion, an increase of ¥12.6 billion from ¥34.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Profit margins expanded due to the steady transaction volume mainly in the domestic market and Asia, amid tightening supply-demand balance for various steel products. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥16.3 billion, an increase of ¥9.4 billion from ¥6.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Reflecting improvement in operating income, net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥11.6 billion, a ¥6.1 billion increase from ¥5.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2006–2005) Change(2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 110.8 ¥ 74.2 ¥ 42.3 ¥ 36.6 ¥ 31.9 Operating Income 87.2 51.9 21.8 35.3 30.1 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 28.7 20.7 7.8 8.0 12.9 Net Income 54.7 35.4 18.7 19.3 16.7 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥110.8 billion, a significant increase of ¥36.6 billion from ¥74.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The main elements of the increase were as follows: Ÿ In May 2006, the International Iron and Steel Institute reported that global crude steel output for 2006 (calendar year) maintained a high level of 1,132 million metric tons, following 1,067 million metric tons for 2005 when it reached the level of 1,000 million metric tons for the first time ever. Reflecting a tightening supply-demand balance in Asia, especially in China, Australian iron ore prices under long-term contracts for the year ended March 31, 2006 rose by 71.5% on a pure ore content basis compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. This resulted in major increases in gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) of ¥17.9 billion, ¥3.0 billion and ¥5.6 billion, respectively, over the year ended March 31, 2005. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis) increased slightly to 21.7 million tons and 2.5 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2006 compared to 21.1 million tons and 2.4 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ Similarly, prices for metallurgical coal and thermal coal for the year ended March 31, 2006 rose sharply. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded a ¥13.8 billion increase in gross profit over the year 96 ended March 31, 2005, in spite of a decline in output volume and increased production cost from surging fuel and material costs. Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal rose to U.S.$125 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2006 compared to U.S.$57 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2005. Shipments by Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. decreased to 5.9 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2006 compared to 6.8 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2005 due to a delay in stripping work caused by a labor and material shortage. Consistent with the increase in gross profit, operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥87.2 billion, an increase of ¥35.3 billion from ¥51.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥28.7 billion, an increase of ¥8.0 billion from ¥20.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors were as follows: Ÿ Mitsui owns 18.24% of the outstanding voting shares of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), the holding company of the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”), a Brazilian iron ore and mineral resources company. Reflecting improved operating results of CVRD, driven by rising mineral resources prices, our equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥14.6 billion, a ¥8.2 billion increase compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. An iron ore mining company Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded earnings of ¥9.0 billion, an improvement by ¥4.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ Equity in earnings of a copper mine joint venture, Companhia Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) was ¥3.7 billion, a ¥4.1 billion decline compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. In the year ended March 31, 2006, the investee declared dividends, so we recognized the tax effect on its retained earnings for the additional Chilean tax charged to dividend recipients. This change outweighed the positive effect on its operations from rising copper price. Average copper prices over the year as listed on the London Metals Exchange (“LME”) rose to U.S.$3,684 per ton/ FOB for 2005 (calendar year) from U.S.$2,868 per ton/ FOB for 2004 (calendar year). Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥54.7 billion, a ¥19.3 billion increase from ¥35.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This significant increase resulted from the improvement in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. On the other hand, considering the deterioration in the terms of the power purchase contract during the course of renewal negotiations, an aluminum smelting subsidiary Mitalco Inc. (United States) recorded an ¥11.8 billion impairment loss on plant facilities and other expenses including impairment on goodwill of ¥2.8 billion. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥74.2 billion, a substantial increase of ¥31.9 billion from ¥42.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors contributing to this result were as follows: Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2005, iron ore prices under long-term contracts rose by 18.6% over the year ended March 31, 2004, resulting in major increases in gross profit at Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia). Sesa Goa Limited in particular contributed a ¥12.2 billion increase compared to the year ended March 31, 2004, supported by the expansion of sales to China. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis) increased to 21.1 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to 18.3 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2004 on the back of expanded production at the West Angelas mine which came on line in March 2002. Ÿ Due to the price rise for long-term contracts for thermal coal and metallurgical coal for the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded a ¥5.3 billion increase in gross 97 profit compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Representative prices for Australian metallurgical coal rose to U.S.$57 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to U.S.$47 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2004. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥51.9 billion, a ¥30.1 billion increase from ¥21.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased, but this was significantly outweighed by the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥20.7 billion, an increase of ¥12.9 billion from ¥7.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors contributing to this result were as follows: Ÿ In the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, we sold our shares in Caemi Mineraçã o e Metalurgia S.A. to CVRD at the same time as acquiring 18.24% of the outstanding voting shares in Valepar S.A. (Brazil), the holding company of CVRD. Our equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥6.4 billion, a ¥3.9 billion increase compared to the year ended March 31, 2004, also reflecting the positive impact of higher mineral resource prices on its financial performance. Ÿ Our equity in earnings in the copper mine joint venture, Companhia Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile), for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥7.8 billion, an increase of ¥5.9 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Average copper prices over the year as listed on the LME rose to U.S.$2,868 per ton/ FOB for 2004 (calendar year) from U.S.$1,780 per ton/ FOB for 2003 (calendar year). Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥35.4 billion, a significant increase of ¥16.7 billion from ¥18.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting increased operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, despite the following negative factors: Ÿ The year ended March 31, 2005 saw reduced gains on sales of securities, reflecting the absence of the ¥4.4 billion gain recorded from the sale of shares in Caemi Mineraçã o e Metalurgia S.A. for the year ended March 31, 2004. Ÿ We recorded ¥6.5 billion in impairment losses on plant facilities at an aluminum smelting subsidiary, Mitalco Inc. (United States) for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the rising trend of electricity costs. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Iron & Steel Raw Materials, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance The iron ore and coal (metallurgical coal) production joint venture businesses in Australia and other regions in which we participate with major overseas mineral resources companies enter into supply contracts with Japanese steel makers and major clients in other countries. Based on these contracts, sales prices are reviewed and renegotiated each fiscal year. For the year ending March 31, 2007, the annual prices of iron ore and coal are as follows. (Unit prices for iron ore and coal from each mine in production also reflect the difference of respective grades and types.) Ÿ For the year ending March 31, 2007, the annual prices of iron ore concluded by major mining houses and worldwide major users rose by 19% compared to the year ended March 31, 2006 on a pure ore content basis. The price level reflected limited production capacities in Australia and Brazil and tightened market supply and demand balance in the face of active global demand for iron and steel raw materials mainly from China. Ÿ Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal declined to around U.S.$110 per ton/ FOB for the year ending March 31, 2007, approximately 10% down from the year ended March 31, 2006. 98 Fluctuations in iron ore and coal prices directly affect revenues from the equity-based production at our iron ore and coal subsidiaries and associated companies. For the year ending March 31, 2007, the estimated impact on net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income arising from changes in iron ore and coal prices is as follows: Ÿ Estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in iron ore price: Approximately ¥2.7 billion. Ÿ Estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in coal price: Approximately ¥0.5 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2006, the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies in shipments amounted to approximately 40 million tons of iron ore and approximately 7 million tons of coal. The above-mentioned effect is calculated based on the assumptions of an estimated increase in production in line with our holdings after the year ended March 31, 2006, and a specific range of foreign exchange rates for yen, the U.S. dollar and other related currencies. Efforts are being undertaken at each mine to expand production and shipments, but production costs are increasing amid a global trend of rising material and equipment costs, and utility costs are also trending upwards. In natural resource producing countries such as Australia, there is a general trend toward currency appreciation in line with any firming in the markets for export products, resulting in cost pressure for our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in our Equity Production In order to respond to tightening supply-demand balance, major iron ore and coal producers are investing to increase production capacity. As of March 31, 2006, noteworthy developments in iron and steel raw materials projects in which we hold stakes are as follows: (Unless otherwise noted, production amounts represent a 100% basis.) Ÿ With respect to iron ore mining joint ventures with the BHP Billiton group, we are expanding to raise the combined iron ore production capacity to 118 million tons per annum from 110 million tons by the year ending March 31, 2007. In addition, the joint ventures have further agreed to an expansion plan to increase annual production capacity to 129 million tons by the year ending March 2008. Ÿ With respect to coal mining joint ventures promoted with the Anglo American group, expansion work of the Dawson complex is ongoing to boost annual coal production from the present capacity of 7 million tons per annum to 12.7 million tons by the year ending March 31, 2009. Furthermore, development of the Lake Lindsay mine at the German Creek complex is under way to bring this new mine to production with additional capacity of approximately 4 million tons per annum. Iron and steel raw material mining projects worldwide including those we are involved in are also expanding production capacity which we expect will be reflected in global production capacity in the years beyond 2007. However, we have yet to come up with the outlook for supply and demand or iron and steel raw materials prices for the period beyond 2007. As there are too many uncertainties including demand from China and other emerging countries, it is impossible for our management to draw up definitive forecasts on supply-demand balance and prices at this point in time. Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 90.6 ¥ 82.9 ¥ 80.3 ¥ 7.7 ¥ 2.6 Operating Income 21.7 21.6 22.1 0.1 (0.5 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 14.6 10.0 5.1 4.6 4.9 Net Income 30.6 20.9 11.0 9.7 9.9 99 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥90.6 billion, an increase of ¥7.7 billion from ¥82.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Gross profit increased at a motorcycle retail finance subsidiary P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia), and at overseas automotive related operations particularly in the Americas. There were also contributions from a newly acquired construction machinery sales subsidiary Road Machinery, LLC (United States). Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥21.7 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.1 billion from ¥21.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, because the increase in gross profit was largely offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses at the above-mentioned subsidiaries that showed growth in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥14.6 billion, an increase of ¥4.6 billion from ¥10.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to the contribution of IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom), which is engaged in overseas power generation businesses, and strong performance in ship and marine project related businesses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥30.6 billion, an increase of ¥9.7 billion from ¥20.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, due to the above-mentioned improvements in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥82.9 billion, an increase of ¥2.6 billion from ¥80.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main components of the changes in gross profit were as below: Ÿ Business expansion of P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia), a motorcycle retail finance company, resulted in growth of ¥1.7 billion. In general, overseas subsidiaries in the automotive related businesses recorded increased gross profit. Ÿ In the year ended March 31, 2004, there was a significant contribution from plant and transportation projects such as a power station and railway project in Malaysia, and an oil refinery in Russia. In the year ended March 31, 2005 execution of such large contracts declined and gross profit decreased slightly. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥21.6 billion, a ¥0.5 billion decrease from the ¥22.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The increase in gross profit was more than offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses including personnel expenses for overseas subsidiaries in the automotive related businesses. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥10.0 billion, an increase of ¥4.9 billion from ¥5.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia) continued to be buoyant, recording a figure of ¥2.9 billion. In addition to the favorable performance of overseas automotive associated companies, the United Auto Group, Inc. (United States), a company which newly became an associated company made a new contribution of ¥1.1 billion. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥20.9 billion, a ¥9.9 billion increase from ¥11.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. During the year ended March 31, 2004, we reorganized the business of NBI Corporation (Japan), formerly known as Toyo Valve Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. (Japan), which led to impairment losses on property and equipment of ¥4.3 billion and other expense—net of ¥3.7 billion, both one-time expenses. 100 Chemical Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 97.8 ¥ 87.1 ¥ 91.1 ¥ 10.7 ¥ (4.0 ) Operating Income 34.0 24.6 31.4 9.4 (6.8 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 3.2 2.5 (1.2 ) 0.7 3.7 Net Income (Loss) 12.1 (6.8 ) 11.4 18.9 (18.2 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Chemical Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥97.8 billion, an increase of ¥10.7 billion from ¥87.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors were as follows: Ÿ During the year ended March 31, 2006, overall market prices for petrochemical products stayed high, reflecting the high crude oil price. As was the case last year, Mitsui’s petrochemicals trading continued to benefit from favorable market conditions. Following rising natural gas price in the United States which recorded a historical high in December 2005, transactions in ammonia and methanol, both derivatives of natural gas, made steady improvements. An ammonia producing subsidiary PT Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia) reported increases in gross profit. On the other hand, during the year ended March 31, 2005, there were one-time unrealized losses on certain long-term petrochemical purchase commitments as a result of rising purchase prices that were linked to natural gas prices. Ÿ During the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit declined at a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary Novus International, Inc. (United States) due to rising raw material costs and lower output caused by the hurricanes which hit the United States. Ÿ Mitsui increased gross profit from the trading of plastics, electronic materials and crystalline liquid for IT related industries and inorganic raw materials such as salt and sulfur reflecting increasing demand in Asia. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥34.0 billion, an increase of ¥9.4 billion from ¥24.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 mainly due to the increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.2 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.7 billion from ¥2.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to the contribution of the methanol manufacturing associated company International Methanol Company (Saudi Arabia), following its commencement of commercial operations. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥12.1 billion, an improvement of ¥18.9 billion compared to a ¥6.8 billion net loss for the year ended March 31, 2005. In addition to the above-mentioned improvement in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, the major factors were as follows: Ÿ In November 2004, Mitsui discovered that false data had been produced and submitted to authorities for diesel particulate filters (“DPF”s) manufactured by its subsidiary PUREarth Incorporated (Japan) and sold by Mitsui. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government and other bodies provided subsidies to the purchasers of these DPFs. Mitsui established a user response plan including the free replacement of DPFs and full compensation of relevant subsidies, which resulted in a ¥36.0 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2005 for compensation and other charges related to the DPF incident. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui recorded ¥9.0 billion additional user response charges. As of end of June 2006 more than 99% of the DPFs had been redeemed. 101 Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2005, we sold our shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited, a manufacturer of high-density polyethylene in Thailand, which had been jointly owned by the Chemical Segment and the Other Overseas Areas Segment. Of the ¥3.9 billion gain realized in the sale, this segment’s share came to ¥2.5 billion. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Chemical Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥87.1 billion, a decline of ¥4.0 billion from ¥91.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Although gross profit from petrochemical products was boosted by rising prices reflecting increasing crude oil prices and strong demand in Asia, especially in China, these gains were outweighed by unrealized losses on certain long-term petrochemical purchase commitments based on rising purchase prices that were linked to natural gas price, and increased raw material cost at a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary Novus International, Inc. (United States). Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥24.6 billion, a ¥6.8 billion decrease from the ¥31.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. In addition to the above-mentioned declines in gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses including personnel expenses also rose. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.5 billion, improved by ¥3.7 billion compared with the losses for the year ended March 31, 2004 of ¥1.2 billion. This segment withdrew from the manufacture and sale of gasoline additives in which it had been engaged together with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. for the year ended March 31, 2004. This segment recorded a net loss of ¥6.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, a significant decline of ¥18.2 billion compared with ¥11.4 billion net income for the year ended March 31, 2004. In addition to the above-mentioned changes in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, the following factors were also responsible for the losses: Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui recorded a ¥36.0 billion loss as compensation and other charges related to DPF incident, as described in Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, above. Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2004, this segment recorded a loss of ¥2.8 billion (after income tax effect) which was the segment’s share for the settlement of antitrust lawsuits involving Bioproducts, Inc. (United States), a subsidiary that produced choline chloride, a feed ingredient and was jointly owned by this segment with its 20% equity interest and Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2005, this segment realized a ¥2.5 billion gain on the sale of shares of Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited as described in Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 above. Energy Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2006–2005) Change(2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 84.7 ¥ 72.6 ¥ 54.6 ¥ 12.1 ¥ 18.0 Operating Income 52.0 35.4 21.7 16.6 13.7 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 33.8 24.5 14.5 9.3 10.0 Net Income 40.9 42.8 24.4 (1.9 ) 18.4 102 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, crude oil prices continued to rise reflecting increased demand along with the expansion of the global economy; geopolitical uncertainty surrounding supply from the Middle East and other oil producing regions; and an influx of speculative money into the futures markets. The average price of crude oil bound for Japan, Japan Crude Cocktail (“JCC”), during the year ended March 31, 2006 rose significantly to U.S.$55.80 per barrel from U.S.$38.77 per barrel during the year ended March 31, 2005. Average JCC for calendar year 2005 was U.S.$51.11 compared to U.S.$36.37 for calendar year 2004. We observe that the JCC price trend is generally reflected in the net income of our overseas oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies in this segment within a 0 to 6 month time lag. Considering these time lags, Mitsui periodically calculates the weighted average JCC price applied to operating results of those oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies for internal reviewing purposes. Such weighted average JCC prices for internal reviewing purposes for the year ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 were U.S.$50 per barrel and U.S.$36 per barrel, respectively. Gross profit in the Energy Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥84.7 billion, an increase of ¥12.1 billion from ¥72.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 mainly due to the following factors: Ÿ Among overseas subsidiaries engaged in the development, production and sale of oil and gas, Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), which produces oil and gas in Oman, increased gross profit by ¥10.9 billion, reflecting the rise in oil prices. In addition, Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. (Australia), which sells crude oil and condensate, recorded an increase of ¥6.9 billion. Ÿ Mitsui sold all of the shares in Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) during the year ended March 31, 2006. This resulted in a ¥12.3 billion decrease in gross profit compared to the year ended March 31, 2005, as Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. recorded an outstanding performance in crude oil trading for the year ended March 31, 2005. On the other hand, Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) recorded increases in gross profit for oil products trading of ¥2.7 billion and ¥1.9 billion, respectively, reflecting the strong demand in Asia and higher crude oil prices. Ÿ As for domestic petroleum products and gas wholesale and retail subsidiaries, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), recorded decreases in gross profit of ¥2.0 billion in total because of rising costs caused by the higher crude oil prices. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥52.0 billion, an increase of ¥16.6 billion from ¥35.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. In addition, for the year ended March 31, 2006, there was a collection of an account receivable which had been previously written off, for more than previously estimated as collectible. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥33.8 billion, an increase by ¥9.3 billion from ¥24.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors were as below: Ÿ Earnings increased significantly at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in Western Australia, due to rising oil prices and increased production on the back of start-up of the fourth LNG production train in August 2004. Ÿ Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan), chiefly engaged in the production of gas and crude oil in offshore Thailand, also recorded an increase in earnings to ¥5.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 from ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to rising crude oil prices. Ÿ Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings due to the rising crude oil price. 103 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥40.9 billion, a decrease by ¥1.9 billion from ¥42.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Besides increases in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, dividend income from our three LNG projects in the Middle East remained at a continuously high level of ¥13.4 billion, a ¥0.6 billion increase over the year ended March 31, 2005. However, these positive factors were more than offset by the following factors: Ÿ This segment significantly increased repatriation of undistributed earnings from overseas subsidiaries and associated companies compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. The increased dividends received from those overseas companies resulted in a large increase in income tax expenses at Mitsui. Ÿ Interest expenses at Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. (Netherlands) increased by ¥6.7 billion due to the rise in U.S. dollar interest rates and the increase in interest bearing debt to finance the investment in the Sakhalin II project. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 During the year ended March 31, 2005, the price of crude oil rose considerably, driven by increasing demand, particularly from China, and spurred by the instability in supply from the Middle East and other regions. A flood of speculative money into the futures market drove up the price of West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) to an all-time high up to March 2005 at U.S.$57.60 per barrel. JCC soared from U.S.$29.43 per barrel during the year ended March 31, 2004 to U.S.$38.77 per barrel during the year ended March 31, 2005 (the average in calendar 2004 was U.S.$36.37 per barrel). Gross profit in the Energy Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥72.6 billion, an increase of ¥18.0 billion from ¥54.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors were as below: Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2004 Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) recorded a loss in petroleum products trading, from which it withdrew. For the year ended March 31, 2005 Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. concentrated on crude oil trading and its gross profit improved by ¥13.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004. Ÿ Among overseas subsidiaries engaged in the development, production and sale of oil and gas, Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), which develops and produces oil and gas in Oman, increased gross profit by ¥3.3 billion, reflecting the rise in oil prices and an increase in sales volume. In addition, Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. (Australia), which sells crude oil and condensate, recorded an increase of ¥1.7 billion. Ÿ Domestic petroleum product sales showed strong performance, successfully passing higher oil prices on in their wholesale and retail pricing. Combined gross profits of three of our domestic sales subsidiaries—Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd., Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (which was separated out from Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. in December 2004) and Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd.—increased by ¥4.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥35.4 billion, a ¥13.7 billion increase from ¥21.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This growth reflected the above-mentioned increase in gross profit, but was partially offset by a ¥3.8 billion increase in selling, general and administrative expenses at Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. arising from higher trader bonuses. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥24.5 billion, an increase of ¥10.0 billion from ¥14.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Ÿ Earnings increased significantly at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty, Ltd. (Australia), involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in West Australia, due to rising oil prices and increased production on the back of expanded facilities. 104 Ÿ Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan), chiefly engaged in the production of gas and crude oil in offshore Thailand, also recorded an increase to ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, mainly driven by rising crude oil prices. Ÿ Also, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings on rising crude oil prices and an increase in production volume. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥42.8 billion, a significant increase of ¥18.4 billion from ¥24.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase resulted from the above-mentioned improvement in both operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. In addition, dividend income from our three LNG projects in the Middle East, namely, in Abu Dhabi, Oman and Qatar totaled ¥12.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥4.7 billion over ¥8.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting their strong performance from rising oil prices. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Energy, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance A survey conducted by the International Energy Agency (May 2006) indicated that world crude oil demand in 2005 was 83.6 million barrels per day, with an estimated demand for 2006 of 84.8 million barrels per day. As of June 2006, general observations on short-term supply-demand balance of crude oil by agencies and corporations in this industry suggest that: Ÿ Robust global economic growth will continue to support oil demand, however, considering strong expectations for increasing output by non-Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and spare capacity amongst OPEC countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, it will be less likely that spot crude oil supply-demand will be extremely tightened. Meantime, productions for certain grades of crude oil are not at satisfactory levels to meet demand, so we may see tight or surplus market conditions by respective grades. Ÿ High crude oil price has also been supported by factors such as growing geopolitical uncertainties over such countries as Iran, Nigeria and Iraq; and tightened supply-demand balance of oil products in the United States associated with changes in specifications. Furthermore, the oil market can be influenced by other accidental events such as hurricane damage and troubles at refineries. Our production of oil and gas for the year ended March 31, 2006 was about 32 million barrels (gas is converted to barrels of oil at the ratio of 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas to 1 barrel of crude oil), as presented in Table 4. Proved Reserve Quantity Information of Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited). The Enfield crude oil project which has a design production capacity at 100,000 barrels per day started production in July 2006, while LNG production of the Sakhalin II project will still be in the development stage during the year ending March 31, 2007. Considering contributions from the Enfield crude oil project, for the year ending March 31, 2007, a change of U.S.$1 per barrel in crude oil prices is expected to have an effect of ¥1.6 billion on net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income as a result of changes in revenues of our oil and gas related subsidiaries and associated companies. Similar to the discussion regarding iron and steel raw materials, actual results of operations are also influenced by production costs, trends in foreign exchange rates and other factors surrounding those subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production The middle- and long-term trends in supply, demand, and prices of crude oil are subject to far greater levels of uncertainty than trends in the short-term, and it is therefore impossible for management to make a definitive forecast. On the other hand, with respect to LNG, we are focusing on the changes in market structure that are currently taking place, and acting accordingly as follows: Ÿ In the past, the market has grown mainly with long-term purchase contracts by power and gas companies operating in Japan and the Far East. Expansion of incumbent projects and green field 105 projects coming on stream will increase the volume of supply to the market, while demand, which has traditionally centered around the Far East, will be joined by growing demand from Europe and the United States, while huge markets in China and India will emerge. Therefore, globalization both in terms of supply and demand is expected to progress. In addition, as the opportunity for supply and demand adjustments in these markets increases, LNG is expected to become a more marketable commodity. Ÿ Long-term purchase contracts with Japanese companies in many projects are expected to come due for renewal around 2010, and more flexible terms reflecting the above-mentioned supply-demand trends will be requested from the buyers. In evaluating the opportunities for the expansion of incumbent projects or participation in green field projects, we are putting an emphasis on securing stable supply as well as diversifying our source of supply to enhance flexibility. Assuming that we do not acquire any additional interests in oil and gas beyond those we held as of March 31, 2006, our equity based production capacity from 2009 onwards (by which time production of crude oil from our investments at the Enfield crude oil project and LNG at the Sakhalin II project will have come on stream) will increase to an annual equity-based production capacity of over 80 million barrels, from the above-mentioned 32 million barrels for the year ended March 31, 2006. The total required funds for the phase II development of the Sakhalin II Project is now estimated U.S.$20 billion, double the original budget of U.S.$10 billion, due to increased expenses related to changes in facility design and construction delays as well as the rising procurement costs of labor and materials. Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) has been making every effort to achieve the earliest possible start of LNG shipments, which is now scheduled in summer 2008, and to contain costs. Up to August 2006, we have seen the following developments: Ÿ The actual progress rate of the total project was about 76% as of end of June 2006. Ÿ Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. also continued to make progress in the sale of the remaining unsold volumes of LNG. In June 2006, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. committed to purchasing additional volume, taking overall sales of Sakhalin II LNG to 90% of designed production capacity. On September 18, the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation announced that it had made the decision to revoke its order issued in 2003 pertaining to the environmental approval of the Phase II Development of the Sakhalin II Project. While we can not definitely predict future development of this situation, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. will continue to work with the relevant authorities to resolve the issue. Foods & Retail Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 79.9 ¥ 85.3 ¥ 73.7 ¥ (5.4 ) ¥ 11.6 Operating Income 9.1 17.8 13.4 (8.7 ) 4.4 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 3.5 2.2 3.3 1.3 (1.1 ) Net Income (Loss) (3.2 ) 10.6 10.6 (13.8 ) 0.0 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Foods & Retail Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥79.9 billion, a ¥5.4 billion decrease from ¥85.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors for this decline, in spite of the contribution from a newly acquired subsidiary Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) were as follows: Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit decreased at Mitsui in the beverage businesses, compared to the year ended March 31, 2005 when those businesses showed strong performance due to a summer heat wave in 2004. Transactions also decreased in marine products and cheese businesses. Ÿ Gross profit of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) decreased by ¥2.0 billion due to a decline in sales of catechin, a substance in tea. 106 Ÿ Gross profit of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) decreased by ¥1.7 billion, principally attributable to the termination of business relations with The Daiei, Inc, a Japanese national retailer. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥9.1 billion, a decrease of ¥8.7 billion from ¥17.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. In addition to the above-mentioned decrease in gross profit, this was due to an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of the acquisition of Hokushuren Company Limited and an increase in personnel expenses at MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. in connection with the establishment of new distribution bases. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.5 billion, a ¥1.3 billion increase from ¥2.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was primarily due to the contribution from Ventura Foods LLC (United States), a processed oil foods manufacturer, reflecting improvement in raw material costs. This segment recorded net loss of ¥3.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, a ¥13.8 billion decline from ¥10.6 billion net income for the year ended March 31, 2005. This downturn was attributable to the above-mentioned decrease in operating income. In addition, this segment recorded the following: Ÿ MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD recorded ¥6.0 billion impairment losses on land and distribution facilities which would become idle as a result of the reorganization of distribution bases, and established valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets. Ÿ We recorded a ¥4.2 billion gain from the exchange of shares of Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. and Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd., for newly issued shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., one of Japan’s diversified retailers. In April 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui reached an agreement with KOKUBU & CO., LTD., a Japanese food wholesaler, in principle to form a business alliance. It includes KOKUBU’s support and guidance for the management and operations of MITSUI FOODS in order to reinforce the business functions of MITSUI FOODS and improve efficiency in its distribution logistics. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Foods & Retail Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥85.3 billion, an increase of ¥11.6 billion from the ¥73.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors contributing to this growth were as follows: Ÿ With the acquisition of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2005 increased by ¥5.1 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004 reflecting its full year contribution. Ÿ Mitsui’s profit margin on commodity trading in corn, soybeans, raw sugar and other agricultural commodities increased, following rises in the prices for those commodities. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥17.8 billion, a ¥4.4 billion increase over ¥13.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. An increase of ¥4.0 billion in selling, general and administrative expenses at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. following its acquisition partly offset the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.2 billion, a decrease of ¥1.1 billion from ¥3.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Ventura Foods LLC (United States) recorded a decline of ¥1.1 billion due to falling sales prices as a result of increased competition in the first half of the year ended March 31, 2005. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥10.6 billion, the same level as the year ended March 31, 2004, as the increase in operating income was partly offset by the decline in equity in earnings of associated companies. 107 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 128.4 ¥ 121.7 ¥ 110.6 ¥ 6.7 ¥ 11.1 Operating Income 25.0 24.0 17.2 1.0 6.8 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 3.5 (0.3 ) 5.5 3.8 (5.8 ) Net Income 17.5 11.8 3.2 5.7 8.6 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥128.4 billion, a ¥6.7 billion increase from ¥121.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors for this increase were as follows: Ÿ In IT related business fields, gross profit rose at Telepark Corp. (Japan). There were also contributions from NextCom K.K. (Japan) which became a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005. Ÿ In lifestyle business fields, gross profit decreased due to withdrawal from cement businesses and overall poor performance in textile businesses. Ÿ In consumer service business fields, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) recorded a decline due to decreased sales of houses built for sale. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥25.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.0 billion from ¥24.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The above-mentioned improvement in gross profit was partly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables at Mitsui Bussan Forestry Co., Ltd. (Japan). Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.5 billion, a ¥3.8 billion improvement from ¥0.3 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2005. A television shopping service company QVC JAPAN, INC. (Japan) and a food catering service company AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan) contributed to this improvement, while there were losses at telecommunication related associated companies in Colombia due to provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2005. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥17.5 billion, a ¥5.7 billion increase from ¥11.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 principally due to the improvement in the above-mentioned operating income and equity in earnings. Other major factors were as follows: Ÿ Gains on sales of securities decreased ¥3.4 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2006, there were gains on sales of shares in Metro PCS, Inc. in the United States, KDDI CORPORATION in Japan and PT Excelcomindo Pratama, Tbk in Indonesia amounting to ¥3.5 billion, ¥3.3 billion and ¥2.0 billion, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2005, there were gains on sales of shares in Vodafone K.K. and our subsidiary Telepark Corp. (Japan) amounting to ¥7.2 billion and ¥4.1 billion, respectively, as well as a ¥3.7 billion gain associated with the merger of NextCom K.K. Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2005, considering a deterioration in financial condition due to sluggish advertising revenue at satellite broadcasters BS-i, INCORPORATED and BS Japan Corporation, this segment recorded losses on write-downs of these shares of ¥1.9 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui received ¥2.0 billion dividend from an investment company related to gains on the sales of interests in telecommunication companies in Africa. 108 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥121.7 billion, an increase of ¥11.1 billion from ¥110.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors contributing to this growth were as follows: Ÿ Growth in cell phone agency sales by Telepark Corp. led to an increase in gross profit of ¥3.6 billion. NextCom K.K. (Japan), an associated company in the year ended March 31, 2004, was merged with two of Mitsui’s subsidiaries to become a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, resulting in gross profit growth of ¥4.0 billion. Ÿ There was a ¥4.5 billion increase at MBK Real Estate Ltd. (United States) resulting from sales of large commercial facilities and residential properties. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥24.0 billion, a ¥6.8 billion increase over ¥17.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Increases in selling, general and administrative expenses including personnel expenses at NextCom K.K. and Telepark Corp. partly offset the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. For the year ended March 31, 2005, this segment recorded equity in losses of associated companies of ¥0.3 billion, a decline of ¥5.8 billion from ¥5.5 billion earnings for the year ended March 31, 2004. The major reason of this decline was losses at telecommunication related associated companies in Colombia from provisions for doubtful receivables. In addition, there were several miscellaneous one-time gains for the year ended March 31, 2004 such as gain on disposal of fixed assets at domestic associated companies. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥11.8 billion, an ¥8.6 billion increase from ¥3.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Major factors were as follows: Ÿ For the year ended March 31, 2004 there was a ¥21.7 billion impairment loss on Mitsui’s investment in a telecommunications carrier POWEREDCOM, Inc. (currently KDDI CORPORATION) in consideration of the deterioration in its financial position. Losses on write-downs of securities for the year ended March 31, 2005 are described in Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 above. Ÿ This segment recorded ¥6.7 billion gain on the sale of shares in SKY Perfect Communications Inc. for the year ended March 31, 2004. The gains on sales of shares for the year ended March 31, 2005 are described in Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 above. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 51.4 ¥ 46.7 ¥ 32.3 ¥ 4.7 ¥ 14.4 Operating Income 17.6 18.5 10.4 (0.9 ) 8.1 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 4.0 2.5 0.2 1.5 2.3 Net Income 13.4 11.8 4.8 1.6 7.0 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥51.4 billion, an increase of ¥4.7 billion from ¥46.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) showed continuously strong performance in energy derivative trading and reported an increase over the year ended March 31, 2005. 109 Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥17.6 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥18.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting an increase in personnel expenses at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥4.0 billion, a ¥1.5 billion increase from ¥2.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥13.4 billion, an increase of ¥1.6 billion from ¥11.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥46.7 billion, an increase of ¥14.4 billion from ¥32.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) increased gross profit by ¥11.0 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004 in energy derivative trading on the back of extremely high volatility in the crude oil market. Moreover, Mitsui’s transactions in commodities derivatives in energy and non-ferrous metals and foreign exchange contracts produced good results. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥18.5 billion, an ¥8.1 billion increase from ¥10.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The increase in bonuses paid to traders at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. caused selling, general and administrative expenses to rise by ¥4.6 billion, partly offsetting the above-mentioned growth in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.5 billion, an increase of ¥2.3 billion from ¥0.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Mitsui Leasing & Development Ltd. (Japan) recorded an increase in its machinery and ship leasing business, reflecting the booming global shipping industry. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥11.8 billion, an increase of ¥7.0 billion from ¥4.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, which was attributable to the increase in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. Americas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 61.6 ¥ 49.9 ¥ 40.7 ¥ 11.7 ¥ 9.2 Operating Income 21.7 14.7 8.5 7.0 6.2 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 2.1 1.6 (2.5 ) 0.5 4.1 Net Income 12.6 12.3 0.2 0.3 12.1 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Americas Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥61.6 billion, an increase of ¥11.7 billion from ¥49.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. An oil products trading subsidiary Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) recorded a significant increase of ¥13.2 billion and a steel pipe sales subsidiary Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States) recorded a ¥1.7 billion increase. In addition, there was a contribution of ¥1.2 billion from CornerStone Research & Development Inc. (United States) which was acquired during the year ended March 31, 2005. However, gross profit decreased by ¥1.9 billion at Portac, Inc. (United States), which produces lumber and lumber products, due to a decline in the prices of its products. 110 Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥21.7 billion, a ¥7.0 billion increase from ¥14.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the increase in gross profit, which was partly offset by higher trader bonuses at Westport Petroleum, Inc. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥12.6 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.3 billion from ¥12.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The increase in operating income was offset by the following factors: Ÿ Interest expenses at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and its subsidiaries increased by ¥3.0 billion resulting from a rise in U.S. dollar interest rates. Ÿ Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. has a minority interest in Mitalco Inc. and shared the net losses of this subsidiary for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2006 with the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Americas Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥49.9 billion, an increase of ¥9.2 billion from the ¥40.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Steel product subsidiaries enjoyed favorable business conditions, namely, steep price rises in the steel product market reflecting the strong growth of the United States economy. Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States) recorded a ¥3.5 billion rise in gross profit. In addition, Portac, Inc. (United States), a subsidiary that manufactures lumber and lumber products, increased gross profit by ¥1.6 billion due to the surge in lumber prices. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥14.7 billion, a ¥6.2 billion increase from ¥8.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Selling, general and administrative expenses rose at Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc. (United States) and other subsidiaries, partly offsetting the growth in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥1.6 billion, an improvement of ¥4.1 billion from the loss of ¥2.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. There was a recovery from the impact of losses on the operations in the manufacture and sale of gasoline additives, which were disposed of during the year ended March 31, 2004. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥12.3 billion, an increase of ¥12.1 billion from the ¥0.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was due to increases in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. In addition, as described in the Chemical Segment section, this segment no longer had to bear its share of a ¥13.7 billion charge recorded as other expense for the year ended March 31, 2004, arising from the settlement of an antitrust lawsuit filed against Bioproducts, Inc. (United States) which manufactures and sells feed ingredients. Europe Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 22.4 ¥ 20.6 ¥ 20.0 ¥ 1.8 ¥ 0.6 Operating Income 4.1 2.4 3.0 1.7 (0.6 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies (0.2 ) 0.1 0.2 (0.3 ) (0.1 ) Net Income 4.9 2.9 0.7 2.0 2.2 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Europe Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥22.4 billion, an increase of ¥1.8 billion from ¥20.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, which was mainly attributable to the growth in the steel pipes and organic chemicals businesses. 111 Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥4.1 billion, a ¥1.7 billion increase from ¥2.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the increase in gross profit. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥4.9 billion, a ¥2.0 billion increase from ¥2.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This segment had a minority interest in Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), which was sold during the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase in operating income was partly offset by the absence of the contribution from Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Europe Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥20.6 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.6 billion from ¥20.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Gross profit of our trading subsidiaries in Europe generally stayed at about the same level as the year ended March 31, 2004. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.4 billion, a ¥0.6 billion decrease from ¥3.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, chiefly personnel expenses and office expenses, outweighed the nominal growth in gross profit. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.9 billion, an increase of ¥2.2 billion from ¥0.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This was attributable to an improvement in net income of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. Asia Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 27.4 ¥ 21.8 ¥ 19.9 ¥ 5.6 ¥ 1.9 Operating Income 10.7 7.8 5.7 2.9 2.1 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.0 (0.1 ) Net Income 9.3 8.0 6.3 1.3 1.7 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit in the Asia Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥27.4 billion, a ¥5.6 billion increase from ¥21.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was attributable to the good performance in the chemical businesses at the Singapore branch; and in the steel products and chemical businesses at Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. and the other trading subsidiaries in China. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥10.7 billion, a ¥2.9 billion increase from ¥7.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The increase in gross profit was partly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses mainly at trading subsidiaries in China and a provision for doubtful receivables at a trading subsidiary in Thailand. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥9.3 billion, a ¥1.3 billion increase from ¥8.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Gross profit in the Asia Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥21.8 billion, an increase of ¥1.9 billion from ¥19.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This was due to continuing favorable conditions, chiefly in the fields of steel products and chemicals at trading subsidiaries and overseas offices in Asia. 112 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥8.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.7 billion from ¥6.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was due to the increase in operating income. In addition, this segment also recorded a ¥1.4 billion gain on the sale of the segment’s shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited, a manufacturer of high-density polyethylene in Thailand for the year ended March 31, 2005. Other Overseas Areas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 4.9 ¥ 4.0 ¥ 4.2 ¥ 0.9 ¥ (0.2 ) Operating Income 1.0 0.4 0.9 0.6 (0.5 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 Net Income 14.3 5.8 4.1 8.5 1.7 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥14.3 billion, an ¥8.5 billion increase from ¥5.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was due to contributions to the segment from its interests in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia), which showed strong growth in net income for the year ended March 31, 2006, as described in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥5.8 billion, an increase of ¥1.7 billion from ¥4.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was due to improvement in the minority share owned by Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. (Australia) in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) which showed strong growth in net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 as described in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment. All Other Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2006–2005) Change (2005–2004) 2006 2005 2004 Gross Profit ¥ 7.1 ¥ 12.4 ¥ 10.4 ¥ (5.3 ) ¥ 2.0 Operating Loss (3.0 ) (0.5 ) (1.9 ) (2.5 ) 1.4 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 0.3 0.4 (0.1 ) (0.1 ) 0.5 Net Income 11.2 4.4 1.9 6.8 2.5 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 The activities of this segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit in the All Other Segment for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥7.1 billion, a ¥5.3 billion decrease from ¥12.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major reason for this decline was the sale of a domestic public golf club business. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.0 billion, a ¥2.5 billion increase from the ¥0.5 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was primarily attributable to the above-mentioned decline in gross profit, but was partly offset by a decline in selling, general and administrative expenses. 113 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥11.2 billion, a ¥6.8 billion increase from ¥4.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, primarily attributable to the sales of Mitsui’s corporate welfare facilities. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥4.4 billion, an increase of ¥2.5 billion from the ¥1.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. For the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a ¥5.8 billion impairment loss of long-lived assets that had occurred when Takeoka Golf Club sold its public golf club business. We recorded an impairment loss of ¥3.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 on the land held by Mitsui for domestic development projects due to the decline in land prices in Japan. Inflation Management believes that inflation did not have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting policies and estimates are considered to be critical if they are important to our financial condition and results of operations and involve estimates that require management’s subjective or significant judgment about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. For a summary of our significant accounting policies including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the estimates that are based on historical experiences and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these evaluations form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions. The following items require significant management judgments and estimates. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The amount of impairment losses of long-lived assets, other than goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets, for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and the balance of the long-lived assets, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, as of the end of March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Long-lived assets ¥ 1,019.9 ¥ 906.3 ¥ 882.8 Impairment loss 36.1 20.5 19.1 Impairment losses of long-lived assets had a material impact on our net income for recent years. These losses were mainly due to the declining profitability resulting from deterioration in the terms of the power purchase contract during the course of renewal negotiations and the reorganization of business structure and distribution bases owned by our subsidiaries. See “Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets” line-by-line explanation in “Results of Operations” for additional information. Our long-lived assets to be held and used or to be disposed of other than by sale are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not 114 be recoverable. This review is performed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the aggregate amount of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows (“impairment analysis”). If the carrying value of the asset is greater than the aggregate amount of undiscounted future cash flows, then the asset is considered impaired, and an impairment loss is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. The fair value of the asset is calculated as present value of the future cash flows that are expected from the asset. Cash flow projections used in our impairment analysis and fair value calculations are based on the business plan authorized by our management or, if this is not available, on the operating plan reflecting the most recent condition of the long–lived asset. In these plans, we assume, for example, that the most recent selling prices of the real estate in the surrounding areas will reasonably continue in the future, and estimate the sales prices of the products from facilities and equipment for the certain future period based on the average price for the equivalent length of period in the past or on the analysts’ reports. As for the discount rate used in fair value calculations, when expected variations of cash flows are not considered in the cash flow estimate, a discount rate, which includes the risk factor for the cash flow deviation, is used. Assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value are incorporated in the discount rate when such information is available. When such information is not available, an expected internal rate of return used for management purposes or a weighted average cost of capital of a company that owns the long–lived asset, whichever is higher, is also considered for the discounted cash flow calculation. Factors to be considered when estimating future cash flows and determining discount rates vary for each long-lived asset because of the difference in the nature of the assets and in operating circumstances, such as location, owner, operator, profitability and other factors. Management believes that the estimates of future cash flows and the determination of discount rates and fair value are reasonable; however, changes in estimates resulting in lower future cash flows and fair values due to unforeseen changes in business assumptions could negatively affect the valuations of those long-lived assets. Allowance for Doubtful Receivables Since we are a general trading company, trade receivables represent a large portion of our total assets, and therefore, the accounting estimates used to establish an allowance for doubtful receivables are critical. When we deem it is probable that we will be unable to collect amounts that are contractually due to us for certain large loan receivables, the specific loan is reviewed for impairment. Factors considered in assessing collectibility include length of period past due, financial condition of the debtor, requests for debt restructuring and filings for bankruptcy. An impairment loss for a specific loan deemed to be impaired, as specifically determined under SFAS No. 114, “Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 15,” is measured based on the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate or the fair value of collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The expected cash flows from assets and liabilities of the debtor and the fair value of collateral are determined mainly based on an evaluation of independent real estate appraisers, publicly available indications of the real estate price, market price of financial assets and liabilities, guarantors’ financial condition and other factors. The recoverable amounts are reviewed on a quarterly basis and if necessary, an additional allowance is established. See Note 7, “ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL RECEIVABLES,” for impaired loan amounts and the respective allowance amounts. In addition to the above, an allowance for doubtful receivables is recognized for probable losses inherent in receivables not specifically deemed to be impaired. The amount of allowance is the amount judged to be adequate based primarily on our credit loss experiences and an evaluation of potential losses on the receivables, considering various factors, including current economic condition and financial condition of the debtors. We 115 review the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful receivables by assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying value over the applicable collateral value. A receivable with an estimated collateral value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable default rate is determined by a customer’s credit rating that is assigned for each customer based on our financial analysis. The default rate of each credit rating is determined based on our historical experiences. Management believes that the estimates of the future cash flows, the fair value of collateral, the credit rating of customers and the corresponding default rate are reasonable; however, changes in estimates resulting in lower future cash flows and fair value of the collateral, due to unforeseen changes in business assumptions, or drastic increases in default rates based on negative changes in economic conditions could negatively affect the valuations of related receivables. Impairment of Investment Securities An impairment of investment securities is charged to earnings when a decline in fair value below cost is deemed to be other than temporary. The impairment of investment equity securities charged to earnings for recent fiscal years had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the cost of marketable and non-marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and the impairment loss for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Cost ImpairmentLoss Cost ImpairmentLoss Cost ImpairmentLoss Marketable equity securities ¥ 275.3 ¥ 1.8 ¥ 191.0 ¥ 0.6 ¥ 178.6 ¥ 1.1 Non-marketable equity securities 249.0 8.8 214.1 15.9 216.6 29.7 Total ¥ 524.3 ¥ 10.6 ¥ 405.1 ¥ 16.5 ¥ 395.2 ¥ 30.8 Management principally recognizes that a 50% or more decline in fair value of a security leads to the presumption that the security has an other than temporary impairment. If the decline is less than 50%, various additional factors, such as the extent to which the cost exceeds the market value, the duration of the market decline, our intent and ability to hold the investment until its market price recovery and the financial condition of the investee, are considered in concluding if the decline is temporary or not. As of March 31, 2006, there was no individual marketable security that had been in a continuous, unrealized loss position for one year or more. The aggregate amount of unrealized losses of marketable securities (approximately ten issuers) that have been in continuous unrealized loss positions for less than one year and had severity of decline of fair value below cost ranging from 1% to 7% was ¥0.3 billion. But, considering the combination of length of time that the fair values have been below cost, the extent of decline and the financial condition of the investees, we expect that their fair values will recover above their costs while we hold these investments. For non-marketable securities, fair value of an investment is generally estimated based on our equity in the net amount of the fair value of the investee’s assets and liabilities. In addition, where future business plans formally adopted by management of the entities are available and when deemed appropriate, a discounted future cash flow method is used to determine the fair value of the non-marketable equity securities. The discount rate reflects risk factors for the cash flow deviation from the future business plans and assumptions that market-place participants would use in their estimates of fair value when the information is available and appropriate. However, there are investments that are not evaluated for impairment because there has been no event or change in circumstances that indicates that a significant adverse effect on the fair value has occurred. See Note 5, “MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS,” for further discussion. 116 Management believes that the criteria for evaluating the significance of the decline in fair value are reasonable and that, as long as the economic condition continues to improve, the amount of impairment losses in investment securities will continue to decrease in the near future. However, changes in the securities market or the circumstances of each individual investment due to unforeseen changes in economic and business conditions could affect the valuation of the investment securities. Pension Benefit Costs Employee pension benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions, including discount, retirement, and mortality rates, which are based on current statistical data, as well as the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and other factors. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the difference between actual results and the assumptions is accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affects the recognized costs and the recorded obligations in future periods. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate; however, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our future pension costs and obligations. We determine the discount rates each year as of the measurement date, based on a review of interest rates associated with long-term Japanese government bonds or high-quality fixed-income corporate bonds. The discount rates determined on each measurement date are used to calculate the benefit obligation as of that date and the net periodic pension costs for the upcoming plan year. Mitsui determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets based on the weighted-average rate of return computed by using the expected long-term rate of return on each asset class which is derived from an extensive study conducted by investment advisors and actuaries on a periodic basis, and the target allocations for each asset class. The study includes a review of anticipated future performance with market analysis of individual asset classes, and also gives appropriate consideration to actual historical returns achieved by the plans. The subsidiaries determine the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets mainly based on the expectations for future returns by investment advisors and actuaries. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions for Mitsui’s pension plans: Billions of Yen Impact of Change inAssumption on NPPCfor the Year EndingMarch 31, 2007 Impact of Change inAssumption on PBOas ofMarch 31, 2006 50 basis point decrease in discount rate (0.1 ) 14.8 50 basis point increase in discount rate 0.3 (13.9 ) 50 basis point decrease in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 1.2 — 50 basis point increase in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (1.2 ) — See Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES,” for further discussion about the estimates and assumptions on PBO and NPPC. Tax Asset Valuation We classify subsidiaries and associated companies into the following five categories and evaluate realizability of deferred tax assets by each category. The valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets is established for the amount determined to be unrealizable. 117 First Category Companies, which constantly generate sufficient taxable income every year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of each fiscal year, and no significant change exists or is expected in the business environment. For this category, we view all deferred tax asset amounts as realizable. Second Category Companies with stable operating results in past years (approximately in the last three years), but that did not generate sufficient taxable income in the current year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of the fiscal year. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income in the future is determined to be realizable. Third Category Companies with unstable operating results in the past years, and that did not generate sufficient taxable income in the current year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of the fiscal year. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within a reasonable estimation period is determined to be realizable. Fourth Category Companies, which have significant amounts of tax loss carryforwards at the end of the fiscal year, have experienced the expiration of a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards in the past three years, or will fail to utilize a significant amount of tax loss carryforward up to the expiration date in the current period. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable with a high degree of certainty based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within the next fiscal year is determined to be realizable. If the tax loss carryforward results from a non-recurring and unusual event such as the significant restructuring of the business or a change in law or regulation, and the companies otherwise consistently generate taxable income, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within a reasonable estimation period is determined to be realizable. Fifth Category Companies, which have recorded a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards for each of the past three years and are expected to record a significant tax loss in the current year as well. For this category, no deferred tax assets are determined to be realizable. For Mitsui, the realizability of deferred tax assets is determined based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, including all currently available information regarding tax deductibility on future years and ability to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the loss carryforwards. Management believes it is more likely than not that all of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will be realized. However, the amount of realizable net deferred tax assets may change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are changed or if statutory tax rates or carryforward periods are changed. See Note 21, “INCOME TAXES,” for further discussion about the deferred tax assets and valuation allowance. New Accounting Standards Inventory Costs In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, “Inventory Costs—an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.” 118 SFAS No. 151 requires that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Share-Based Payment In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”). SFAS No. 123R requires the compensation cost from share-based payment transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. The amount of the compensation cost is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued or the liabilities incurred. In addition, the award of liability instruments will be remeasured at the end of each reporting period. The compensation cost is recognized over the requisite service period. In April 2005, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted a new rule which amended the effective dates for SFAS No. 123R. Under the new rule, SFAS No. 123R is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred during Production in the Mining Industry In March 2005, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue No. 04-6 (“EITF No. 04-6”), “Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred during Production in the Mining Industry.” EITF No. 04-6 requires that stripping costs incurred during the production stage of the mine be accounted for as variable production costs that should be considered a component of mineral inventory costs and are recognized as a component of costs of sales in the same period as the revenue from the sale of the inventory. EITF No. 04-6 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this consensus on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty In September 2005, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue No. 04-13 (“EITF No. 04-13”), “Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty.” EITF No. 04-13 requires that two or more inventory purchase and sales transactions with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another should be combined for purposes of applying Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions.” EITF No. 04-13 also requires that all nonmonetary exchanges of inventory within the same line of business other than those whereby an entity transfers finished goods inventory in exchange for the receipt of raw materials or work-in-process inventory should be recognized at the carrying amount of the inventory transferred. EITF No. 04-13 is effective for new arrangements entered into, and modifications or renewals of existing arrangements, beginning in the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after March 15, 2006. The effect of adoption of this consensus on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140.” 119 One of the amendments to SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140 is that SFAS No. 155 permits an entity to elect fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument in its entirety with changes in fair value recognized in earnings, in which the hybrid financial instrument contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a remeasurement event occurring after the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, “Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140.” SFAS No. 156 requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable, and permits an entity to choose either the amortization method or the fair value measurement method for subsequent measurement of each class of separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. SFAS No. 156 is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures are defined in the SEC regulations as financial measures that either exclude or include amounts that are not excluded from or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio We refer to “Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“Net DER”) in this Liquidity and Capital Resources and elsewhere in this annual report. Net DER is comprised of “net interest bearing debt” divided by shareholders’ equity. “Net interest bearing debt” is defined as adjusted interest bearing debt, defined below, less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits. Our interest bearing debt primarily consists of long-term debt. As discussed in “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives,” to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations in financial markets, currently we hold a relatively high level of cash and cash equivalents reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. Under this policy, Net DER is a useful internal measure for our management to review the balance between: Ÿ our capacity to meet debt repayments; and Ÿ leverage to improve return on equity in our capital structure. Management believes it is also helpful for the readers of this annual report. To calculate our adjusted interest bearing debt, the followings balances are excluded: Ÿ accounts payables, derivative liabilities and others; Ÿ capital lease obligations; and Ÿ SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment. 120 Elimination of the SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment is made because Japanese investors usually evaluate Net DER of other general trading companies in this manner. This calculation does not recognize the fact that cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may not be completely available for debt repayments because some amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may be required for operational needs including contractual obligations or capital expenditures. “Net interest bearing debt” and “Net DER” are presented in the table below. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2006 2005 Short-term debt ¥ 540.8 ¥ 615.4 Long-term debt 3,264.1 3,196.9 Less eliminating factors included in long-term debt: Accounts payables, derivative liabilities and others (253.3 ) (193.0 ) Capital lease obligations (24.6 ) (21.3 ) Less SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment 37.7 (58.2 ) Adjusted interest bearing debt 3,564.7 3,539.8 Less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits (734.1 ) (819.9 ) Net interest bearing debt ¥ 2,830.6 ¥ 2,719.9 Shareholders’ equity ¥ 1,677.9 ¥ 1,122.8 Net DER (times) 1.69 2.42 The most directly comparable GAAP measure is considered to be “Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“DER”). However, this ratio measures gross debt relative to equity, and does not measure changes in cash position. Adjusted DER (times) 2.12 3.15 (defined as adjusted interest bearing debt divided by shareholders’ equity) Free Cash Flow We define “free cash flow” as the sum of net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities. Management believes that such indicator is useful to investors, to measure available net cash for investment in strategic opportunities and/or debt repayment; or magnitude of reliance on borrowing to procure funds for strategic investments. The following table shows a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 146.4 ¥ 200.1 ¥ 100.1 Net cash used in investing activities (347.3 ) (224.0 ) (134.2 ) Free cash flow ¥ (200.9 ) ¥ (23.9 ) ¥ (34.1 ) Finance and Liquidity Management Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives Our basic funding policy is to secure stable sources of funds to maintain adequate liquidity and financing to satisfy capital requirements for our operations and to maintain the strength of our balance sheet. In order to 121 achieve our objectives, our principal strategy is to obtain long-term funds (those with maturities of around 10 years) from financial institutions, including insurance companies and banks, and through the issuance of corporate bonds. In addition, we utilize financing programs provided by government financing agencies for various projects to obtain long-term financing. Another strategy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations in financial markets. We hold cash and cash equivalents as liquidity sources, which consist mainly of highly-liquid and highly-rated short-term financial instruments and deposits. We aim to maintain the proper level of cash and cash equivalents, reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. In principle, wholly owned domestic subsidiaries do not individually raise their funds in financial markets or borrow from banks, but instead use a cash management service provided by Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. (Japan), our financing subsidiary. The same policy and practices have been extended to wholly owned overseas subsidiaries through our regional financing subsidiaries, which centralizes the fund raising function and promotes efficient use of funds. Approximately 81% of total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2006 (excluding SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment) was raised by Mitsui and the above-mentioned financing subsidiaries as in-house banking bases. Funding Sources We borrow funds based on our longstanding relations with financial institutions in Japan and overseas, borrow from government financing agencies, and also utilize project financing. In addition to these funding sources, Mitsui maintains a ¥200 billion debt shelf-registration and a ¥2,400 billion commercial paper program in Japan. Similarly, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V., Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. and Mitsui & Co., Ltd. have arranged a joint Euro medium-term note (“MTN”) program of U.S.$5 billion. Mitsui guarantees notes issued by these overseas subsidiaries. For raising short-term funds, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. has a U.S.$1.5 billion U.S. domestic commercial paper program, and we have made arrangements for commercial paper programs in some other overseas markets. Unused lines of credit, for short-term financing outside of Japan, aggregated ¥756.6 billion at March 31, 2006. Certain overseas subsidiaries compensate banks for these facilities in the form of commitment fees, which were not material in each of the past three years. Taking advantage of a favorable financial market environment, during the year ended March 31, 2006, we increased long-term funding by borrowing from financial institutions and issuing bonds in Japan and MTNs in overseas markets for debt retirement and for working capital requirements. There was one bond issue that raised ¥15.0 billion in total (with maturity of 12.5 years) under the shelf-registration in Japan during the year ended March 31, 2006. As a result, long-term debt accounted for approximately 85% of total debt as of March 31, 2006, which we regard as a satisfactory level from the viewpoint of our financial policies. In February 2006, Mitsui issued 130 million new shares of its common stock at an issuing price of ¥1,467.55 per share in an international offering in reliance on Regulation S and in a Japanese offering. In March 2006, Mitsui issued additional 9.75 million new shares of its common stock at the same issuing price through a third party allotment in connection with the execution of the over-allotment option in the Japanese offering. Mitsui received approximately ¥205.1 billion in aggregate cash proceeds (before deducting stock issuing expenses). Approximately 77% of the total of short-term and long-term debt as of March 31, 2006 was denominated in Japanese yen and the rest was primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We employ certain derivative financial instruments, which include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts, to manage financial exposures resulting from our financing activities. Currency swap agreements and foreign exchange forward contracts are used to manage risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The principal financial derivative instruments that are employed to manage interest rate risk exposure are interest rate swap agreements. A large part of such agreements are used for fair value hedging of fixed rate interest 122 bearing debt, including fixed interest rate borrowing, bonds and notes, converting into floating interest rates based on the three-month or six-month LIBOR. The interest rates on approximately 79% of Mitsui’s long-term debt, other than borrowings for certain projects, were floating after taking into account interest rate swap arrangements as of March 31, 2006. See Note 26, “DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES,” for further description of our risk management policies. Credit Ratings To facilitate access to funds from capital markets, Mitsui and certain of our overseas trading subsidiaries have obtained ratings for their commercial paper (short-term debt) and long-term senior unsecured debt (long-term debt) from Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (“R&I”), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Standard and Poor’s Services (“S&P”). The ratings as of June 2006 were as follows: R&I Moody’s S&P Short-term debt a-1+ P-1 A-1 Long-term debt AA- A2 A* * The credit rating by S&P on long-term debt was provided without our request. S&P in February 2006 raised our long-term credit rating to “A” from “A-” and short-term credit rating to “A-1” from “A-2.” S&P cited the following factors for the change in ratings: Ÿ increase in shareholders’ equity through accumulation of retained earnings as well as public offering; Ÿ improvement in profit base and asset quality through refinements in investment and withdrawal decisions for operations; and Ÿ enhancement of risk management system. Mitsui intends to maintain and improve its current credit ratings by enhancing its earnings and risk management. Credit ratings are an assessment by the rating agencies of the credit risks associated with us and are based on information provided by us and other sources that the rating agencies consider reliable. Lower ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. Credit ratings do not constitute a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to change or withdrawal by each of the rating agencies at any time. As rating agencies may have different criteria in evaluating the risk associated with a company, you should evaluate each rating independently of other ratings. Ratings may be changed without pre-notice at any time. Liquidity Management For the interest rate structure and the maturity profile of our outstanding debt, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT.” Cash and cash equivalents were ¥697.1 billion, ¥791.8 billion and ¥638.3 billion as of March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of March 31, 2006, net interest bearing debt (interest bearing debt less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits) was ¥2,830.6 billion, an increase of ¥110.7 billion from ¥2,719.9 billion as of March 31, 2005. However, the Net DER improved from 2.42 as of March 31, 2005 to 1.69 as of March 31, 2006, reflecting a significant increase in shareholders’ equity. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities remained comparable from 134.7% as of March 31, 2005 to 135.2% as of March 31, 2006. The increases in investments and other non-current assets are financed by the increases in long-term debt and shareholders’ equity including public offerings. 123 As of March 31, 2006, we had given guarantees for obligations of various third parties and associated companies. These guarantees are not expected to require substantial use of our capital resources. We have not had any material payment requirements resulting from these guarantees for the past three years. For details on guarantees issued by us, see Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” With the exception of project financing and non-recourse financing, it is our policy not to conclude agreements for important financial transactions with financial institutions that contain additional debt restriction clauses that may cause acceleration of our obligations, including debt incurrence restrictions, negative pledges, restrictions on dividend payments and various financial ratio limits, and there are no material financial covenants in the agreements undertaken. Assuming that our subsidiaries have sufficient distributable net assets or retained earnings as provided under the local laws of the relevant jurisdictions, there are no material contractual or legal restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. There are no material economic restrictions on payments of dividends, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries other than general withholding or other taxes calculated at the rates determined by the local tax laws of the relevant jurisdictions. We held ¥697.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2006 in comparison to ¥222.6 billion of outstanding debt with current maturities including commercial paper, MTNs and bonds. Of the cash and cash equivalents, approximately 57% was held by Mitsui and approximately 92% was denominated in Japanese yen. We believe that we maintain sufficient liquidity to satisfy our working capital and debt-service requirements for the foreseeable future through existing cash and cash equivalents and time deposits, the sales of certain assets in parallel with outside borrowings from financial institutions, as well as, the issuance of bonds and notes. We plan to contribute ¥22.7 billion to our defined-benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2007. This cash requirement will be managed under our funding policy mentioned above. Investment Plans and Financial Policies of the Medium-Term Management Outlook According to our Medium-term Management Outlook announced in May 2006, we plan to invest approximately ¥800 billion during the two years ending March 31, 2007 and 2008. The principal investments in this plan are described below. — Approximately ¥400 billion in Mineral Resources and Energy Area, — Approximately ¥50-100 billion in Global Marketing Networks Area, — Approximately ¥150-200 billion in Consumer Services Area, and — Approximately ¥150 billion in Infrastructure Area. Many of the projects in the investment plan involve bidding. The outcome of bidding will have an effect on our actual cash flows and financial condition for the year ending March 31, 2007. We will procure funding for these investments by fund raising (including project finance) from the private sector and government financing agencies and direct financing from capital markets, in addition, retained earnings are also a crucial source of funds. We forecast our level of interest bearing debt to increase by about ¥200 billion in the year ending March 31, 2007; however, this amount may vary, depending on the rate of progress of the investment plan. In formulating our investment plans we are paying careful attention to our level of financial leverage—including our ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets (“Shareholders’ Equity Ratio”) and our Net DER. As of March 31, 2006, our Shareholders’ Equity Ratio and our Net DER were 19.6% and 1.69 compared to 14.8% and 2.42 as of March 31, 2005, primarily due to the accumulation of retained earnings and the public offering. We believe that the favorable movement of these two indices clearly represents an enhancement in the stability of our fund raising capacity. Considering the investment plan outlined above, we are forecasting a Net DER of around 1.58 as of March 31, 2007. 124 Non-Exchange Traded Commodity Contracts at Fair Value We perform trading activities in commodities that are listed on the terminal (futures) markets. Our trading consists of derivative instruments traded in the commodity futures markets, as well as non-exchange traded commodity contracts including commodity derivatives. Non-exchange traded commodity contracts are recorded at fair value based on prices actively quoted in the terminal (futures) market for commodities such as precious metals. Some non-exchange traded commodity contracts, such as non-exchange traded derivatives of crude oil and oil products, are recorded at fair value based on the prices provided by other external sources. Their effect on earnings and financial position is immaterial. Transactions with Related Parties When conducting our business operations throughout the world, we form alliances with leading partner companies in Japan and overseas, including manufacturers and companies in the fields of natural resources, such as energy and ferrous materials. In addition to investing in, or providing loans to, associated companies where we are a minority shareholder, we conduct selling and purchasing transactions of various products on a recurring basis with such associated companies. Our principal associated companies include Valepar S.A. (18.2%), Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (47.3%), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (50.0%), IPM Eagle LLP (30.0%), Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (25.0%), Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (32.4%), and United Auto Group, Inc. (15.4%), among others. During the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our gross revenues from transactions with these associated companies amounted to ¥89.1 billion, ¥121.3 billion and ¥107.8 billion, respectively, and the values of goods and services purchased from such companies and reported as cost of revenues were ¥238.0 billion, ¥192.4 billion and ¥161.2 billion, respectively. Prices applied in transactions with associated companies are computed in the same way that such prices would be calculated in transactions with unrelated third parties. In addition, when associated companies are counterparties in transactions with us and we conduct such business under long-term procurement and/or sales contracts, in general, we conclude a corresponding sales contract with the purchasers (unrelated parties) of goods procured by us and/or with suppliers (unrelated parties) of the goods we sell to associated companies. In addition, we were the guarantor for ¥ 55.0 billion and ¥57.6 billion in funds borrowed and other financial obligations of associated companies as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regarding any other commitments related to transactions with associated companies, we do not normally assume risk in excess of our percentage of share ownership in such associated companies. Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Total assets as of March 31, 2006 were ¥8,573.6 billion, an increase of ¥980.2 billion from ¥7,593.4 billion as of March 31, 2005. Current assets as of March 31, 2006 were ¥4,746.8 billion, an increase of ¥326.1 billion from ¥4,420.7 billion as of March 31, 2005. Along with the higher market prices of commodities and increased business transactions, the following items increased: Ÿ Accounts receivables increased by ¥133.4 billion, mainly at Mitsui, especially in the segments of the Chemical, the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects and the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals; and at Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. Ÿ Inventories increased by ¥98.9 billion, mainly at Mitsui’s Logistics & Financial Markets Segment and Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States). 125 Ÿ Derivative assets increased by ¥167.1 billion because of mark-to-market gains of derivative transactions mainly at Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) and Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom). Total current liabilities as of March 31, 2006 were ¥3,510.9 billion, an increase of ¥229.1 billion from ¥3,281.8 billion as of March 31, 2005. The main factors were as follows: Ÿ Short-term debt decreased by ¥74.6 billion mainly at Mitsui. On the other hand, current maturities of long-term debt increased by ¥61.2 billion mainly at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. (United States) and Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. (Japan). Ÿ Accounts payables increased by ¥116.3 billion corresponding to the above-mentioned increase in accounts receivables mainly at Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. Similarly, derivative liabilities increased by ¥59.7 billion mainly at Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. and Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. As a result, working capital, or current assets minus current liabilities, as of March 31, 2006 was ¥1,235.9 billion, a ¥97.0 billion increase compared to ¥1,138.9 billion as of March 31, 2005. The sum of total investments and non-current receivables, property and equipment—at cost, intangible assets less accumulated amortization, deferred tax assets—non current and other assets totaled ¥3,826.7 billion as of March 31, 2006, a ¥654.0 billion increase compared to ¥3,172.7 billion as of March 31, 2005, mainly due to the following factors: Ÿ Within total investments and non-current receivables, investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2006 was ¥1,300.6 billion, a ¥327.4 billion increase compared to ¥973.2 billion as of March 31, 2005. This increase was mainly attributable to investments in mineral resources and energy related development projects and infrastructure projects, for example: — Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), a project implementing vehicle of the Sakhalin II project, for ¥102.4 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥18.9 billion) in the Energy Segment; — SUMIC Nickel Netherlands B.V. (Netherlands) participating in the Goro Nickel Project, for ¥7.8 billion in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment; — IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) in connection with acquisition of the Saltend power plant amounting to ¥13.7 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥0.6 billion) in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment: and — Thai Tap Water Supply Company Limited for ¥11.0 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. In addition to the above-mentioned increase, there were increases which do not involve cash outflow such as: — increases in equity in earnings (before tax effect) of ¥77.9 billion (net of dividends received from associated companies); — a ¥24.5 billion increase in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities including those related to the shares in INPEX CORPORATION (currently INPEX Holdings Inc.) owned by our associated company Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan); and — a ¥39.1 billion improvement in foreign exchange translation cumulative adjustments including ¥25.2 billion in connection with investment in Valepar S. A. (Brazil). 126 The following table shows the details of investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2006 and 2005 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, Change 2006 2005 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 22.8 ¥ 18.3 ¥ 4.5 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 221.8 153.5 68.3 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 290.4 216.1 74.3 Chemical 49.5 53.2 (3.7 ) Energy 483.5 328.5 155.0 Foods & Retail 54.8 49.7 5.1 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 93.9 70.4 23.5 Logistics & Financial Markets 26.0 17.4 8.6 Americas 9.7 10.0 (0.3 ) Europe 13.3 14.0 (0.7 ) Asia 3.9 4.4 (0.5 ) Other Overseas Areas 20.0 12.9 7.1 Total 1,289.6 948.4 341.2 All Other 9.3 2.4 6.9 Adjustments and Eliminations 1.7 22.4 (20.7 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 1,300.6 ¥ 973.2 ¥ 327.4 Ÿ Other investments as of March 31, 2006 were ¥935.7 billion, a ¥275.5 billion increase compared to ¥660.2 billion as of March 31, 2005. The increase was mainly due to acquisition of shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. for ¥75.6 billion, participation in the Equatorial Guinea LNG project amounting to ¥15.9 billion and acquisition of shares in Tokyo Broadcasting System, Inc. for ¥6.0 billion. Also, there were net improvements in unrealized holding gains/losses on available-for-sale securities totaling approximately ¥173.9 billion including ¥21.4 billion from Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. shares. Ÿ Property leased to others—at cost, less accumulated depreciation as of March 31, 2006, was ¥218.6 billion, a ¥35.4 billion increase compared to ¥183.2 billion as of March 31, 2005. Major factors were the acquisition of office buildings in the United Kingdom for ¥23.0 billion by MBK Real Estate Europe Limited (United Kingdom) and the acquisition of rolling stock for ¥14.5 billion by Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. (United States). Ÿ Property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2006 was ¥746.2 billion, an ¥83.5 billion increase compared to ¥662.7 billion as of March 31, 2005. This was principally due to increases in machinery and equipment at the Enfield oil project in Western Australia of ¥29.5 billion (including the effect from foreign exchange translation by ¥7.7 billion), equipment for iron ore and coal mining property and equipment in Australia of ¥30.6 billion, and a ¥28.9 billion increase in land and buildings of KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD. (Japan) as it became a subsidiary during the year ended March 31, 2006. 127 The following table shows the details of property leased to others—at cost and property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2006 and 2005 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, Change 2006 2005 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 23.4 ¥ 22.0 ¥ 1.4 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 147.0 126.2 20.8 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 102.5 88.8 13.7 Chemical 60.7 57.5 3.2 Energy 180.3 139.6 40.7 Foods & Retail 68.5 65.0 3.5 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 94.6 66.4 28.2 Logistics & Financial Markets 58.6 29.9 28.7 Americas 48.1 40.3 7.8 Europe 11.8 12.3 (0.5 ) Asia 5.3 5.5 (0.2 ) Other Overseas Areas 1.1 1.0 0.1 Total 801.9 654.5 147.4 All Other 23.2 39.4 (16.2 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 139.7 152.0 (12.3 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 964.8 ¥ 845.9 ¥ 118.9 Long-term debt, less current maturities as of March 31, 2006 was ¥2,910.9 billion, an increase by ¥6.0 billion compared to ¥2,904.9 billion as of March 31, 2005. This was primarily because of increases in borrowings from financial institutions, which corresponded to funding for the above-mentioned investments and acquisitions of property and equipment. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2006 was ¥1,677.9 billion, an increase of ¥555.1 billion compared to ¥1,122.8 billion as of March 31, 2005, primarily due to a ¥204.3 billion increase in common stock and capital surplus as a result of the issuance of common stock by Mitsui, the accumulation of retained earnings of ¥170.8 billion, an increase in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities of ¥115.9 billion and net improvement in foreign currency translation adjustments as a result of U.S. dollar and Brazilian Real appreciation against Japanese Yen of ¥59.5 billion. Cash Flows Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 146.4 ¥ 200.1 ¥ 100.1 Net cash used in investing activities (347.3 ) (224.0 ) (134.2 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 92.3 171.3 (12.2 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 13.9 6.1 (10.2 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (94.7 ) 153.5 (56.5 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 791.8 638.3 694.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥ 697.1 ¥ 791.8 ¥ 638.3 128 Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2006 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥146.4 billion. Major components were: Ÿ Operating income which increased steadily in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, the Energy Segment and other segments; Ÿ Dividends received totaling ¥96.7 billion from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies, as well as our investments in third parties; Ÿ Payments of ¥81.5 billion for corporate income taxes; and Ÿ Payments of ¥27.5 billion for compensation and other charges related to DPF incident. In addition, during the year ended March 31, 2006, the changes in current assets and liabilities, especially a significant increase in trade receivables gave a negative impact of ¥141.0 billion on cash flows. Refer to the relevant discussion in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity.” Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by ¥53.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. The reasons for this decrease were as follows: Ÿ Changes in current assets and liabilities which increased by ¥107.4 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2005; and Ÿ Operating income which increased by ¥75.3 billion in total, mainly attributable to a ¥35.3 billion increase in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and a ¥16.5 billion increase in the Energy Segment. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 totaled ¥347.3 billion. The principal details are as follows: Ÿ A total of ¥175.8 billion was paid for investments in and advances to associated companies, and proceeds of ¥37.6 billion from sales of investments in and collection of advances to associated companies was received, which resulted in net cash outflow of ¥138.2 billion. The major factors are as below: — Investment in preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) for ¥83.5 billion* in the Energy Segment; — Investment in IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) in connection with acquisition of the Saltend power plant for ¥13.1 billion* in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and — Investment in Thai Tap Water Supply Co. Ltd. (Thailand) for ¥10.9 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. Ÿ A total of ¥247.1 billion was paid for acquisition of property leased to others and property and equipment, and proceeds of ¥74.0 billion from sales of property leased to others and property and equipment was provided, which resulted in net cash outflow of ¥173.1 billion. The major factors are as below: — Payments of ¥35.8 billion for the acquisition of facilities for the development of iron ore and coal mines in Australia in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment; 129 * Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated into yen, based on the average foreign exchange rates throughout the fiscal year, and therefore differ from the amounts appearing in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity,” which were translated at the current rate as of March 31, 2006. — Payment of ¥23.0 billion for the acquisition of office buildings in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment; — Payment of ¥21.8 billion* for the acquisition of property and equipment for the Enfield crude oil project in Western Australia in the Energy Segment; — Payments of ¥62.2 billion to purchase rolling stock and aircraft for lease, and proceeds of ¥44.0 billion from the sales of rolling stock and aircraft for lease in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and — Proceeds of ¥6.4 billion from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate welfare facilities. Ÿ A total of ¥190.3 billion was used for the acquisition of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities and other investments, and proceeds of ¥139.2 billion from sales of securities was received, which resulted in net cash outflow of ¥51.1 billion. Cash outflow and inflow in connection with debt securities includes payment of ¥53.5 billion for acquisition and proceeds of ¥56.2 billion from sales and redemption for the purpose of corporate fund management. Major cash outflows in connection with acquisition of financial assets are: — Acquisition of shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. for ¥50.0 billion in the Foods & Retail Segment; and — Investment in the Equatorial Guinea LNG project for ¥16.0 billion in the Energy Segment. The following table shows the details of “Investments in and advances to associated companies” and “Additions to property leased to others and property and equipment” for the year ended March 31, 2006 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2006 Investments inand Advances toAssociatedCompanies Additions toProperty Leased toOthers and Propertyand Equipment Iron & Steel Products ¥ 0.8 ¥ 2.6 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 7.9 39.5 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 43.3 84.3 Chemical 0.5 10.8 Energy 89.1 39.4 Foods & Retail 0.7 10.3 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 22.5 37.4 Logistics & Financial Markets 4.9 2.9 Americas 4.4 9.7 Europe 0.1 1.4 Asia 0.4 0.5 Other Overseas Areas 0.0 0.4 Total 174.6 239.2 All Other 1.2 1.8 Adjustments and Eliminations 0.0 6.1 Consolidated Total ¥ 175.8 ¥ 247.1 Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 increased by ¥123.3 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors in investing cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2005 included an investment of ¥80.7 billion in the preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. 130 (Bermuda), ¥64.4 billion for the acquisition of mineral rights and property and equipment in the Enfield crude oil project in Western Australia and an investment of ¥62.2 billion in IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom), as well as an inflow of ¥14.5 billion from the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥92.3 billion. Major factors were as below: Ÿ Mitsui raised ¥203.8 billion (net of stock issuance costs before taxes) from the public offering of 130 million shares in February 2006 and the third party allotment of 9.75 million shares in March 2006. Ÿ Net cash flow in short-term debt decreased by ¥89.4 billion due to repayments of notes on MTN programs and commercial papers issued by Mitsui and overseas trading subsidiaries. Net of proceeds from and repayment of long-term debt was ¥10.4 billion. Mitsui increased long-term borrowings in response to the above-mentioned investing activities, while domestic and overseas financial subsidiaries repaid long-term borrowings. Ÿ Dividend paid by Mitsui totaled ¥31.6 billion. Net cash flow provided from financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 decreased by ¥79.0 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, there were higher levels of long-term funds procured through borrowing from financial institutions and the issuance of bonds. Refer to Funding Sources above, for details of our fund procurement for the year ended March 31, 2006. Cash and Cash Equivalents as of March 31, 2006 In addition to the increase of ¥13.9 billion due to changes in exchange rates, the balance of our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2006 was ¥697.1 billion, a decrease by ¥94.7 billion compared to ¥791.8 as of March 31, 2005. Cash Flows under the Medium-Term Management Outlook Reflecting our active investment program, free cash flows, which we define as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities, recorded a deficit of ¥200.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Management expects that our free cash flow will continue to be negative until the year ending March 31, 2008 and will turn to positive from the year ending March 31, 2009, mainly due to the following reasons: Ÿ Mitsui intends to execute investments of approximately ¥800 billion in total during the two years ending March 31, 2007 and 2008, which include approximately ¥400 billion investments in mineral resources and energy related development projects. Most of these development projects require lead time before starting to generate cash flow, though it is expected that continuously strong demand in the mineral resources and energy markets will support our operating results during those periods. Ÿ It is expected that the start of commercial operation of two major energy projects, the Enfield crude oil project (during the year ending March 31, 2007) and the Sakhalin II LNG project (during the year ending March 31, 2009), as well as the completion of expansion projects in iron ore and coal mines in Australia, will contribute to significant improvement in free cash flow. Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥200.1 billion, which was primarily attributable to: Ÿ Operating income which increased steadily in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, Energy Segment, and other segments; 131 Ÿ Dividends received totaling ¥53.6 billion from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd.(Australia), Valepar S.A.(Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies, as well as our investments in third parties; Ÿ Total payments, in relation to contributions to our defined benefit pension plan and payments under unfunded severance indemnities plans amounting to ¥30.9 billion; Ÿ A one-time payment of ¥8.1 billion for compensation and other charges related to DPF incident; and Ÿ Payments of ¥56.9 billion for corporate income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by ¥100 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared with the year ended March 31, 2004. The reasons for this increase were: Ÿ Operating income which increased by ¥71.2 billion in total, by operating segment mainly attributable to a ¥39.4 billion increase in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and ¥13.8 billion in the Energy Segment; and Ÿ Dividends received from associated companies as well as investees other than subsidiaries and associated companies. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 totaled ¥224.0 billion. Of this amount, ¥133.3 billion was used in relation to investments and loans (investing activities not related to property leased to others and property and equipment). The details are as follows: Ÿ A total of ¥190.4 billion was paid for investments in and advances to associated companies. This included an ¥80.7 billion* investment in preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and an investment of ¥62.2 billion* in IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) that purchased Edison Mission Energy’s overseas power plants generation business portfolio. Deduction of a ¥52.7 billion proceeds from sales of investments in and collection of advances to associated companies resulted in a net cash outflow of ¥137.7 billion. Ÿ A total of ¥68.5 billion was used on the acquisition of debt securities for fund management purposes, mainly from Mitsui and its financing subsidiaries, and ¥59.8 billion was obtained as proceeds from maturities of such debt securities. While ¥14.5 billion was provided by the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K. (Japan), ¥8.9 billion was used in the purchase of shares in CornerStone Research & Development Inc. (United States). Ÿ A total of ¥90.7 billion was paid for fixed assets, which includes property leased to others and property and equipment. The main items are listed below. — Payments of ¥64.4 billion* for the acquisition of mineral rights and other fixed assets in the Enfield crude oil project in Western Australia; — Payments of ¥17.2 billion for the acquisition of facilities for the development of iron ore and coal mines; — Payments of ¥16.0 billion to purchase rolling stock and ocean transport vessels for lease, and proceeds of ¥17.0 billion from the sale of aircraft, rolling stock and ocean transport vessels for lease; — Proceeds of ¥10.8 billion from the sale of our office building in the United Kingdom; and — Proceeds of ¥12.8 billion from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories. 132 * Cash flows in foreign currencies were translated into yen, based on the average foreign exchange rates throughout the fiscal year, and therefore differ from the amounts appearing in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity,” which were translated by the exchange rate as of March 31, 2005. Cash flows used in investing activities increased by ¥89.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared with the year ended March 31, 2004. Typical cash outflows and inflows for the year ended March 31, 2004 included an investment of ¥97.1 to acquire shares in Valepar S.A. (Brazil), an investment of ¥56.7 billion in the preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), and proceeds of ¥49.8 billion from the sale of shares in Caemi Mineraçã o e Metalurgia S.A. (Brazil). Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥171.3 billion, which was primarily attributable to: Ÿ An increase in long and short-term debt of ¥183.8 billion mainly consisting of the increased long-term borrowings and issuance of long-term bonds by Mitsui, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. and other trading subsidiaries. Of this amount, ¥141.2 billion was procured by Mitsui; Ÿ In response to increasing demand for funds for our investments and acquisition of fixed assets, we increased our level of long-term fund procurement, taking advantage of a favorable financial market environment. As a result, our long-term debt increased by ¥120.7 billion, and bonds increased by ¥55.0 billion; and Ÿ Other cash flows from financing activities included ¥2.6 billion proceeds from the issuance of stock in Telepark Corp. (Japan), and payments of ¥14.2 billion for cash dividends. Cash flows from financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 increased by ¥183.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004. The main sources, as described above, were increases in levels of long-term fund procurement through our borrowing from financial institutions and the issuance of bonds. Refer to “Funding Sources” above for details of our fund procurement for the year ended March 31, 2005. Cash and Cash Equivalents as of March 31, 2005 In addition to the increase of ¥6.1 billion due to changes in exchange rates, the balance of our cash and cash equivalents increased by ¥153.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 to ¥791.8 billion as of March 31, 2005. C. Research & Development For the year ended March 31, 2006, research and development (“R&D”) expenses for the various R&D activities underway totaled ¥5.1 billion, which included ¥3.4 billion in the Chemical Segment related to nanotechnology, biotechnology and life science and ¥0.9 billion in the Foods & Retail Segment. In the nanotechnology field, a key research area in the Chemical Segment, we have been developing and promoting the commercialization of ethanol separation technology by using zeolite membranes, which will dramatically improve the energy efficiency of biomass ethanol production. Biomass ethanol is a renewable energy source, and as such it is being utilized all over the world as an additive for automobile gasoline and fuel for power generation, as a means of addressing the issue of global warming. By realizing improved energy efficiency in the production of biomass ethanol through the use of zeolite membranes, it is expected to contribute to reduce CO2 emissions and improve the global environment. Carbon nanotubes are expected to be developed for a variety of advanced applications in the future, and we are continuing to cooperate with industry and academia to conduct development research into these applications, providing the produced carbon nanotubes for many partner university laboratories and companies as we strive together to commercialize this technology. Along with this work, we are also carrying out research on related safety issues. 133 In addition, with the primary objective of expanding demand for methionine, a feed supplement subsidiary, Novus International Inc. (United States) has been working to develop new applications and manufacturing processes, and has also been conducting R&D in feed analysis services and new products by using a broad array of techniques. These R&D efforts are producing tangible results, such as improvements in the market’s view of its products, the startup of a new plant for intermediates, and the debut of new products in the area of organic acids and organic minerals. In food related activities in the Foods & Retail Segment, our subsidiary, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) is primarily focused on the commercialization of its research into the health benefits, application and material development of tea catechin and black-tea polyphenol, substances that have high sterilization and anti-viral properties. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. is pursuing research and development of these as drug substances in the pharmaceutical field, and has submitted to the Food and Drug Agency of the United States (“FDA”) the Drug Master File of a drug substance (named “Polyphenon E”) which has a catechin purity level of 95%. This has been formally examined and tested and represents the first time that a natural plant derivative has been accepted as a drug substance. Also, with regard to Mitsui Norin’s dermatological disease drug which has Polyphenon E as its base compound, a new drug application has been filed with the FDA by the German company it will be supplied to. Moreover, along with joint research with universities and research institutions inside and outside of Japan seeking to uncover the bioactive properties of tea, the company is using genetic engineering methods to establish microbe identification technology and methods for analyzing foreign substances and offensive odors, and making maximum efforts to strengthen the quality guarantee of liquid/powder products. For the year ended March 31, 2005, R&D expenses were ¥5.6 billion including ¥3.9 billion nanotechnology and biotechnology related activities in the Chemical Segment. For the year ended March 31, 2004, R&D expenses were ¥6.0 billion including ¥4.5 billion nanotechnology and biotechnology related activities in the Chemical Segment. D. Trend Information See relevant discussion elsewhere in this item. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We use off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business to further our trading, fund-raising and other activities. Categories of off-balance arrangements are as follows: Guarantees The following tables summarize our guarantees as of March 31, 2006 and 2005. The maximum potential amount of future payments represents the amount without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provision or from collateral held or pledged that we could be obliged to pay if there were defaults by guaranteed parties or there were changes in an underlying which would cause triggering events under market value guarantees and indemnification contracts. Such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated losses on these guarantees and indemnifications, and they greatly exceed anticipated losses. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset our payments under guarantees. The carrying amounts of liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect our best estimate of future payments we may incur as part of fulfilling our guarantee obligations. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2006: MaximumPotential Amount ofFuture Payments RecourseProvisions/Collateral CarryingAmount ofLiabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 154 ¥ 29 ¥ 4 Performance Guarantees 33 5 0 Market Value Guarantees 75 47 — 134 Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2005: MaximumPotential Amount ofFuture Payments RecourseProvisions/Collateral CarryingAmount ofLiabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 194 ¥ 31 ¥ 3 Performance Guarantees 33 6 0 Market Value Guarantees 73 42 — In the furtherance of our trading activities, it is a customary practice for us to guarantee, severally or jointly with others, indebtedness of certain of our customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. As lessees in operating lease contracts, certain subsidiaries have issued residual value guarantees of leased ocean transport vessels, and on the date of expiration of operating lease contracts, such subsidiaries will either purchase the leased assets at a fixed price or will be responsible for making up any shortfall between the actual sales price and the guaranteed value. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (revised December 2003)—an Interpretation of ARB No. 51” on December 31, 2003, we consolidated ¥20.8 billion and ¥20.2 billion of total assets related to certain ocean transport vessels entities at March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. This information is provided in Note 24, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Sales of Trade Receivables Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. and certain subsidiaries use off-balance sheet arrangements in which certain trade receivables are sold to third parties. At March 31, 2006 and 2005, the outstanding amounts of these off-balance sheet arrangements were immaterial. Variable Interest Entities We are involved with and have significant variable interests in a number of variable interest entities (“VIEs”) that are not consolidated because we are not the primary beneficiary, but in which we have significant variable interests. These VIEs mainly engage in leasing and financing activities. Further information is provided in Note 24, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Commitments on Deferred Payments We had financing commitments totaling ¥2.7 billion at March 31, 2005, principally for financing, on a deferred-payment basis, the cost of ocean transport vessels and equipment to be purchased by our customers. We had no financing commitments at March 31, 2006. Further information is provided in Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations The following table provides our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2006 and payment due by period of these contractual obligations: Billions of Yen Contractual Obligations Balance as of March 31, 2006 Payment Due by Period Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years After 5 Years Long-Term Debt ¥ 3,274 ¥ 321 ¥ 692 ¥ 664 ¥ 1,597 Capital Lease Obligations 27 6 8 7 6 Operating Leases 139 28 37 26 48 Purchase Obligations 2,978 672 969 549 788 Capital Expenditure Commitments 69 55 10 3 1 Total ¥ 6,487 ¥ 1,082 ¥ 1,716 ¥ 1,249 ¥ 2,440 135 The amounts of “Long-Term Debt” include bank borrowings, bonds and long-term trade payables, excluding the effect of the SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment. “Capital Lease Obligations “ represents the schedule of payments for future minimum lease payments. “Operating Leases” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum rentals. Minimum rental payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of ¥57.9 billion due in the future under noncancelable subleases. “Purchase Obligations” represents the schedule of payments for long-term purchase obligations, net of advance payments of ¥86.5 billion made to suppliers as of March 31, 2006. The purchased items are principally oil products, chemical materials, ocean transport vessels, metals and machinery and equipment, either at fixed prices or at basic purchase prices adjustable to the market. In general, our customers, primarily large Japanese industrial companies and shipping firms, are also parties to the contracts or by separate agreements and are committed to purchase the items from us. “Capital Expenditure Commitments” represents the unpaid amounts of total contracts for the acquisition of plant and equipment at the reporting date but not recognized in the financial statements. In addition to the above, we plan to contribute ¥22.7 billion to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2007. For additional information regarding long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating leases and purchase obligations, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT,” Note 8, “LEASES,” and Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES,” respectively. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. A. Directors and Senior Management. We are managed by a Board of Directors and Executive Officers. As of June 30, 2006, we have eleven Directors and thirty-eight Executive Officers including seven of whom are also Directors. In accordance with Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation, each Director was elected for a term of one year. Each Executive Officer has been appointed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is our decision-making body. The Board of Directors determines our basic guidelines and policies by establishing our corporate strategy, reviewing our business plans, and supervising and monitoring the activities of our Executive Officers. The Executive Officers are responsible for the execution of our corporate activities. They must follow and enforce the general guidelines and policies established by the Board of Directors and Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation. As of June 30, 2006, Mitsui’s Executive Officers consisted of one President, four Executive Vice Presidents, six Senior Executive Managing Officers, twelve Executive Managing Officers and fifteen Managing Officers. The execution of the Directors’ functions (including their functions to supervise and monitor the activities of the Executive Officers) is audited by Corporate Auditors. Each Corporate Auditor is elected by shareholders of Mitsui at a general meeting of shareholders. As of June 30, 2006, we have six Corporate Auditors. In performing their auditing activities, they act independently of each other while they are constituted, and act through the Board of Corporate Auditors, as the Corporate Law of Japan requires. 136 Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers Our Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers as of the end of June 2006 were: Directors Name Position Nobuo Ohashi Chairman and Director Shoei Utsuda Representative Director Tetsuya Matsuoka Representative Director Masataka Suzuki Representative Director Hiroshi Tada Representative Director Yasunori Yokote Representative Director Kazuya Imai Representative Director Hiroshi Ito Representative Director Akishige Okada (1) Director, Advisor, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Akira Chihaya(1) Director, Representative Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nippon Steel Corporation Nobuko Matsubara(1) Director, Advisor to Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution (1) Mr. Akishige Okada, Mr. Akira Chihaya and Ms. Nobuko Matsubara are external directors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” Corporate Auditors Name Position Tasuku Kondo(2) Corporate Auditor Hiroshi Matsuura(2) Corporate Auditor Ko Matsukata(3) Corporate Auditor, Senior Consultant, Mitsui Sumitomo Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Yasutaka Okamura(3) Corporate Auditor, Attorney at Law Hideharu Kadowaki(3) Corporate Auditor, Chairman of the Institute, The Japan Research Institute, Limited Naoto Nakamura(3) Corporate Auditor, Attorney at Law (2) Mr. Tasuku Kondo and Mr. Hiroshi Matsuura are full-time Corporate Auditors. (3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki and Mr. Naoto Nakamura are external Corporate Auditors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” 137 Executive Officers Name Title and Principal Position Shoei Utsuda President and Chief Executive Officer Tetsuya Matsuoka Executive Vice President; Infrastructure Projects Business Unit; Machinery Business Unit; Financial Markets Business Unit; Transportation Logistics Business Unit Masataka Suzuki Executive Vice President; First Chemicals Business Unit; Second Chemicals Business Unit; Foods & Retail Business Unit; Director, Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC; Director, Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. Gempachiro Aihara Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer, Asia Business Unit Hiroshi Tada Executive Vice President; Iron & Steel Products Business Unit; Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit; Energy Business Unit Yasunori Yokote Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; Chief Privacy Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Secretariat, Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Human Resources & General Affairs Division, Information Strategic Planning Division, Corporate Communications Division, CSR Promotion Division, Legal Division, Logistics Management Division, Domestic Offices and Branches); New Business Promotion; Environmental Matters; DPF Matters; Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters Kazuya Imai Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Investor Relations Division, Investment Administration Division, Business Process Control Division, Accounting Division, Finance Division, Credit Risk Management Division, Market Risk Management Division, Financial Planning Division); Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters; Director, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. Toshihiro Soejima Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Motokazu Yoshida Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Americas Business Unit Ken Abe Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Europe Business Unit Hiroshi Ito Senior Executive Managing Officer; Lifestyle Business Unit; Consumer Service Business Unit; Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit Yoshiyuki Izawa Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Osaka Office Osamu Mori Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Financial Markets Business Unit Satoru Miura Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Nagoya Office Takao Sunami Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Machinery Business Unit Junichi Matsumoto Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Transportation Logistics Business Unit 138 Name Title and Principal Position Shunichi Miyazaki Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Internal Auditing Division Shinjiro Ogawa Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit Toshimasa Furukawa Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Jitsuro Terashima Executive Managing Officer; President, Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Motonori Murakami Executive Managing Officer; Assistant to Senior Executive Managing Officer (Corporate Staff Division), Assistant to Chief Financial Officer Koji Nakamura Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Second Chemicals Business Unit Kenichi Yamamoto Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Lifestyle Business Unit Toshio Awata Managing Officer; General Manager, Information Strategic Planning Division; Chief Information Officer Masaaki Murakami Managing Officer; President, Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Kiyotaka Watanabe Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Masaaki Fujita Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Foods & Retail Business Unit Junichi Mizonoue Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, First Chemicals Business Unit Takao Omae Managing Officer; President, Mitsui Brasileira Importacao E Exportacao S.A. Norinao Iio Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Energy Business Unit Osamu Koyama Managing Officer; Executive Vice President, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. Terukazu Okahashi Managing Officer; Deputy General Manager, Osaka Office Osamu Takahashi Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Consumer Service Business Unit Hideyo Hayakawa Managing Officer; General Manager, Legal Division Hiraku Shimomaki Managing Officer; President, Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH Shigeru Hanagata Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Machinery Business Unit Masami Iijima Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit Seiichi Tanaka Managing Officer; General Manager, Human Resources & General Affairs Division 139 The date of birth, the current position and the prior positions of our Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers is provided below. Directors Name Nobuo Ohashi Date of Birth September 13, 1938 Current Position Chairman and Director (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 1994 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Seoul Office) • 1996 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit • 1997 Executive Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit • 1998 Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 1999 Senior Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2000 Executive Vice President • 2002/4 Executive Vice President, President of Consumer Products & Services Group • 2002/10 Chairman and Representative Director Name Shoei Utsuda Date of Birth February 12, 1943 Current Position President and Chief Executive Officer, Representative Director (since October 1, 2002) Prior Positions • 1997 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Machinery, Electronics & Information Administrative Division) • 1998 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit • 2000 Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2002/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Strategic Officer, Responsible for Administration Division Name Tetsuya Matsuoka Date of Birth January 5, 1945 Current Position Executive Vice President, Representative Director (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 1998 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Metals Administrative Division) • 1999 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Non-Ferrous Metals Unit • 2001 Executive Managing Director, Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC, Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. UK PLC and Chairman of Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V. • 2002 Senior Executive Managing Officer & Chief Strategic Officer, Responsible for Administration Division • 2003 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters • 2004 Senior Executive Managing Officer 140 Name Masataka Suzuki Date of Birth April 2, 1944 Current Position Executive Vice President, Representative Director (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 1999 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Textile & Fashion Unit) • 2002/4 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Textile & Fashion Unit, Consumer Products & Services Group • 2002/10 Executive Managing Officer, President of Consumer Products & Services Group • 2003 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Hiroshi Tada Date of Birth March 3, 1945 Current Position Executive Vice President, Representative Director (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit) Ÿ 2002/4 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit, Metals Group Ÿ 2003 Executive Managing Officer, Chairman for the Americas, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. Ÿ 2005 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Yasunori Yokote Date of Birth June 23, 1946 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Privacy Officer, Environmental Matters, Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters, Representative Director (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Personnel Division) Ÿ 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in Indonesia Ÿ 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in Indonesia Ÿ 2004 Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer Ÿ 2005 Representative Director; Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; Chief Privacy Officer; Environmental Matters; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters Name Kazuya Imai Date of Birth April 20, 1946 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters, Representative Director (since June 24, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Executive Vice President of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) Ÿ 2002/1 Director Ÿ 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer Ÿ 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer Ÿ 2004 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Internal Auditing Division Ÿ 2005/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters 141 Name Hiroshi Ito Date of Birth February 8, 1947 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Representative Director (since June 23, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Service Business Unit Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Consumer Service Business Unit Ÿ 2005 Senior Executive Managing Officer Ÿ 2006/4 Name Akishige Okada Date of Birth April 9, 1938 Current Position Director (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions Ÿ 1991 Director, The Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, Ltd. Ÿ 1997 President, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. Ÿ 2001 Director, Chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Ÿ 2002 Director, Chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Ÿ 2005 Advisor, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Name Akira Chihaya Date of Birth March 6, 1935 Current Position Director (since June 24, 2004) Prior Positions Ÿ 1987 Director of Nippon Steel Corporation Ÿ 1998 Representative Director and President of Nippon Steel Corporation Ÿ 2003 Director, Representative Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nippon Steel Corporation (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Name Nobuko Matsubara Date of Birth January 9, 1941 Current Position Director (since June 23, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2006 Advisor to Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Corporate Auditors Name Tasuku Kondo Date of Birth August 12, 1942 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 1996 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Finance Division) Ÿ 1998 Executive Managing Director Ÿ 2002 Senior Executive Managing Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Responsible for General Accounting Division, Finance Division and Corporate Risk Management Division Ÿ 2004 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ÿ 2005/4 Representative Director Name Hiroshi Matsuura Date of Birth May 24, 1946 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions Ÿ 1996 General Manager of Credit Division Ÿ 2002 General Manager of Corporate Risk Management Division 142 Name Ko Matsukata Date of Birth March 27, 1933 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 1996) Prior Positions Ÿ 1990 President of Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Ÿ 1996 Vice Chairman of Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Ÿ 1997 Senior Advisor to Board of Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Ÿ 2001 Senior Consultant, Mitsui Sumitomo Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Name Yasutaka Okamura Date of Birth June 13, 1929 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions Ÿ 1992 Prosecutor, General Ÿ 1994 Attorney at Law (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Ÿ 1997 Corporate Auditor of Toyota Motor Corporation (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Name Hideharu Kadowaki Date of Birth June 20, 1944 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2004) Prior Positions Ÿ 2001 Executive Managing Director of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Ÿ 2003 Director, Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Ÿ 2004 Chairman of the Institute, The Japan Research Institute, Limited (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Name Naoto Nakamura Date of Birth January 25, 1960 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 23, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 1982 Attorney at Law (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2006) Executive Officers (excluding Executive Officers who are also a Director) Name Gempachiro Aihara Date of Birth October 3, 1943 Current Position Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer of Asia Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Performance Chemicals Unit) Ÿ 2002/4 Executive Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Ÿ 2004/6 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer Ÿ 2004/10 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Regional Managing Director, Asia Name Toshihiro Soejima Date of Birth November 10, 1946 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Executive Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Devices Business Unit) Ÿ 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group Ÿ 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group Ÿ 2003 Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning & Strategy Division Ÿ 2004 Executive Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China 143 Name Motokazu Yoshida Date of Birth January 7, 1948 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Americas Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit) Ÿ 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group Ÿ 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group Ÿ 2003 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit Ÿ 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Machinery Business Unit Ÿ 2005 Executive Managing Officer, Chairman for the Americas and President and Chief Operating Officer of Mitsui & Co.(U.S.A.) Inc. Name Ken Abe Date of Birth September 19, 1947 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Europe Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Metals Administrative Division Ÿ 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit Ÿ 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit Name Yoshiyuki Izawa Date of Birth February 10, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Osaka Office (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions Ÿ 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit) Ÿ 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group Ÿ 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit Name Osamu Mori Date of Birth January 1, 1949 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Financial Markets Business Unit (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions Ÿ 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Finance Division) Ÿ 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Finance Division Ÿ 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Finance Division Ÿ 2003 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Financial Markets Business Unit 144 Name Satoru Miura Date of Birth March 2, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Nagoya Office (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit) Ÿ 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit, Metals Group Ÿ 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit Ÿ 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Name Takao Sunami Date of Birth August 22, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Machinery Business Unit (since January 1, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of e-Mitsui Business Division Ÿ 2003 Managing Officer, General Manager of Fukuoka Office Name Junichi Matsumoto Date of Birth September 25, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division Ÿ 2003 Managing Officer, Deputy General Vice Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit Name Shunichi Miyazaki Date of Birth February 11, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Internal Auditing Division (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Consumer Products & Services Administrative Division Name Shinjiro Ogawa Date of Birth September 17, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Machinery, Electronics & Information Administrative Division Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit Name Toshimasa Furukawa Date of Birth December 25, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Infrastructure Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2002 Managing Officer, President of Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of Machinery, Electronics & Information Administrative Division Ÿ 2005 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit 145 Name Jitsuro Terashima Date of Birth August 11, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, President of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute (since April 1, 2006) Ÿ 2003 Managing Officer, President of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Name Motonori Murakami Date of Birth November 19, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Assistant to Senior Executive Managing Officer (Corporate Staff Division), Assistant to Chief Financial Officer (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2003 Managing Officer, General Manager of General Accounting Division Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of General Accounting & Risk Management Division Name Koji Nakamura Date of Birth August 15, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Second Chemicals Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit Name Kenichi Yamamoto Date of Birth July 25, 1949 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Lifestyle Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of Personnel Division Ÿ 2005 Managing Officer, General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division Name Toshio Awata Date of Birth July 28, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer & General Manager of Information Strategic Planning Division (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer & General Manager of Business Process Re-Engineering Division Name Masaaki Murakami Date of Birth August 10, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, President of Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions Ÿ 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of Chemical Administrative Division Name Kiyotaka Watanabe Date of Birth May 31, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Name Masaaki Fujita Date of Birth January 4, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Foods & Retail Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2005 Managing Officer, Deputy Chief Operating Officer of Foods & Retail Business Unit 146 Name Junichi Mizonoue Date of Birth February 15, 1950 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of First Chemicals Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions Ÿ 2005 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Organic Chemicals Business Unit Name Takao Omae Date of Birth December 18, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, President of Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. (since April 1, 2005) Name Norinao Iio Date of Birth March 2, 1951 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Name Osamu Koyama Date of Birth August 8, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, Executive Vice President of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. (since April 1, 2005) Name Terukazu Okahashi Date of Birth November 25, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, Deputy General Manager, Osaka Office (since April 1, 2006) Name Osamu Takahashi Date of Birth March 6, 1950 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Consumer Service Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Name Hideyo Hayakawa Date of Birth February 25, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, General Manager of Legal Division (since April 1, 2006) Name Hiraku Shimomaki Date of Birth March 6, 1950 Current Position Managing Officer, President of Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH (since April 1, 2006) Name Shigeru Hanagata Date of Birth October 31, 1950 Current Position Managing Officer, Deputy Chief Operating Officer of Machinery Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Name Masami Iijima Date of Birth September 23, 1950 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit (since April 1, 2006) Name Seiichi Tanaka Date of Birth January 12, 1953 Current Position Managing Officer, General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division (since April 1, 2006) There is no family relationship between any Directors, Corporate Auditors, Executive Officers and any other persons named above. There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above and any other person pursuant to which they were selected as a Director, a Corporate Auditor or a member of the senior management. 147 B. Compensation. The aggregate amount of compensation, including benefits from Directors’, Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ Pension Plans, paid to Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2006, was ¥3,204 million. Our retirement allowance system for Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers was abolished pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors in February 2004. Up to this resolution, in accordance with customary Japanese business practices, a retiring Director or Corporate Auditor was entitled to receive a retirement allowance, which was subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders. The amount of the retirement allowance generally reflected the number of years of service, rank at the time of retirement and special contributions to our performance. Retirement allowances accrued prior to the abolition of the retirement allowance system, including benefits from Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ Pension Plans, paid to retired individual Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2006 totaled ¥595 million, and the annual bonuses paid to Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥600 million, both of which were included in the ¥3,204 million aggregate compensation discussed above. The amount set aside by us for Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ Pension Plans to provide pension benefit to retired Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers was ¥2,154 million as of March 31, 2006. Mitsui has no stock option plans for Mitsui’s Directors and Senior Management as of June 30, 2006. C. Board Practices. The information in “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” is incorporated into this section by reference. None of our Directors have entered into any service contracts with us providing for benefits upon termination of his or her employment. The Corporate Law of Japan allows a company to adopt the “Committee System” as the framework for corporate governance. We have decided, however, to maintain the corporate auditor system because we believe that our Corporate Auditors, of whom two are full-time and four are external Auditors as of June 30, 2006 and their functions are legally defined and reinforced, provide adequate auditing functions. Furthermore, internal Directors are familiar with our business operations and can therefore contribute to effective management. Although we retained the corporate auditor system, we have decided to adopt certain aspects of the Committee System and have established three committees (The Governance Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee) to provide advice to the Board of Directors. In addition, other measures have been taken, such as shortening the term of Directors and Executive Officers from two years to one year, eliminating the retirement allowance, and increasing the number of external Directors. 148 Our Directors and Corporate Auditors are elected at the general meeting of shareholders. In accordance with our Articles of Incorporation, the normal term of office for our Directors is one year(1) and for our Corporate Auditors is four years. However, they may both serve any number of consecutive terms. The following table shows our Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ terms of office and their shareholdings as of June 30, 2006. Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment to June 2006)(1) Shareholdings as of June 30, 2006 Director: Nobuo Ohashi 12 years 66,019 Shoei Utsuda 9 years 44,959 Tetsuya Matsuoka 7 years 30,275 Masataka Suzuki 6 years 20,181 Hiroshi Tada 3 years 17,924 Yasunori Yokote 4 years 18,424 Kazuya Imai 2 years 11,749 Hiroshi Ito Less than 1 year 10,888 Akishige Okada(2) 3 years 813 Akira Chihaya (2) 2 years 1,000 Nobuko Matsubara(2) Less than 1 year 0 Note(1) At Mitsui’s ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on June 24, 2004, an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation was resolved whereby the normal term of office for Directors has been changed from two years to one year. Note(2) Mr. Akishige Okada, Mr. Akira Chihaya and Ms. Nobuko Matsubara are external Directors. Date of Expiration of Current Term of Office Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment to June 2006) Shareholdings as ofJune 30, 2006 Corporate Auditor: Tasuku Kondo June 2009 1 year 23,566 Hiroshi Matsuura June 2007 3 years 22,572 Ko Matsukata(3) June 2009 10 years 14,608 Yasutaka Okamura(3) June 2007 3 years 5,307 Hideharu Kadowaki(3) June 2008 2 years 3,913 Naoto Nakamura(3) June 2010 Less than 1 year 0 Note(3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki and Mr. Naoto Nakamura are external Corporate Auditors. 149 Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment to June 2006)(4) Shareholdings as of June 30, 2006 Executive Officer (excluding Executive Officers who are also a Director): Gempachiro Aihara 6 years 15,875 Toshihiro Soejima 5 years 12,188 Motokazu Yoshida 5 years 10,399 Ken Abe 4 years 22,520 Yoshiyuki Izawa 6 years 11,110 Osamu Mori 6 years 25,719 Satoru Miura 5 years 11,310 Takao Sunami 4 years 13,211 Junichi Matsumoto 4 years 14,000 Shunichi Miyazaki 4 years 12,828 Shinjiro Ogawa 4 years 12,573 Toshimasa Furukawa 4 years 12,085 Jitsuro Terashima 3 years 21,255 Motonori Murakami 3 years 19,888 Koji Nakamura 2 years 9,237 Kenichi Yamamoto 2 years 9,625 Toshio Awata 2 years 6,220 Masaaki Murakami 2 years 16,310 Kiyotaka Watanabe 1 year 2,462 Masaaki Fujita 1 year 2,227 Junichi Mizonoue 1 year 2,227 Takao Omae 1 year 7,030 Norinao Iio 1 year 2,742 Osamu Koyama 1 year 0 Terukazu Okahashi Less than 1 year 5,309 Osamu Takahashi Less than 1 year 4,145 Hideyo Hayakawa Less than 1 year 0 Hiraku Shimomaki Less than 1 year 3,000 Shigeru Hanagata Less than 1 year 7,570 Masami Iijima Less than 1 year 8,000 Seiichi Tanaka Less than 1 year 0 Total Shareholdings by Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers 593,263 Note(4) The rules of Executive Officers provide for the term of the Executive Officers as one year starting April 1 and ending March 31. Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provide that the Board of Directors shall elect from among its members Representative Directors, one of whom shall be the President. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, each of the Representative Directors has statutory authority and power to represent and act on behalf of the company in all respects. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, at least half of the Corporate Auditors should be persons who have not at any time been a director, executive officer, manager or employee of a company or any of its subsidiaries prior to his or her election as a Corporate Auditor. Each Corporate Auditor has a statutory duty to examine financial statements, in collaboration with independent auditors, and business reports and also to supervise the 150 administration of the company’s affairs by Directors. Corporate Auditors are required to participate in meetings of the Board of Directors but are not entitled to vote. The Board of Corporate Auditors is comprised of all Corporate Auditors. The Board of Corporate Auditors has a statutory duty to prepare its audit report each year. A Corporate Auditor may note his or her opinion in the audit report if his or her opinion is different from the opinion expressed in the independent auditors’ report. The Board of Corporate Auditors is empowered to establish audit principles, methods of examination by the Corporate Auditors of the company’s affairs and financial position and other matters concerning the performance of the Corporate Auditors’ duties. The Corporate Auditors may not at the same time be directors, managers or employees of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Exemption from Certain Corporate Governance Requirements of NASDAQ. Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(a)(1) provides that a foreign private issuer may follow its home country practice in lieu of the requirements of Rule 4350, provided that such foreign private issuer discloses in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each requirement of Rule 4350 that it does not follow and describes the home country practice followed by the issuer in lieu of such requirements. Such requirements of Rule 4350 and the relevant home country practices we follow are described below: Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(b) requires that there be a distribution to shareholders of copies of our annual report containing our audited financial statements a reasonable period of time prior to our annual meeting of shareholders. In accordance with the Corporate law of Japan, we hold an annual meeting of shareholders within three months after the end of each fiscal year. Also, in accordance with the Corporate Law of Japan, we distribute to shareholders, prior to the annual meeting of shareholders, copies of a report of business operations, together with our audited consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP in Japanese. Concurrently with such distribution, we distribute Japanese GAAP audited consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements in English to the depository for the ADSs, and instruct the depository to distribute the same to the registered ADS holders in a timely manner. The English version contains a statement that, upon request by an interested party, we will provide the party with a copy of our annual report on Form 20-F. As a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP for inclusion in our annual report on Form 20-F, which must be filed within six months after the end of each fiscal year. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(1) requires that a majority of the board of directors of each issuer be independent directors as defined in Rule 4200, and Rule 4350(c)(2) requires that independent directors of each issuer have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. For Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, the Corporate Law of Japan has no independence requirement with respect to directors. The task of overseeing management and accounting firms is assigned to the corporate auditors, who are separate from the company’s management. Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, are required to have at least 50% “external” corporate auditor who must meet additional independence requirements under the Corporate Law of Japan. An external corporate auditor is defined in the Corporate Law of Japan as a corporate auditor who has not served as a director, executive officer, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time prior to the appointment. Currently, we have four external Corporate Auditors. Our Board of Corporate Auditors, which, as explained below, performs functions similar to those of an audit committee, has regularly scheduled meetings at which only Corporate Auditors are present. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2) requires that each issuer have and will continue to have an audit committee of at least three members, each of whom (1) is independent as defined under Rule 4200(a)(15), (2) meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 151 1934, (3) has not participated in the preparation of the financial statements of the issuer or any current subsidiary thereof at any time during the past three years, and (4) is able to read and understand fundamental financial statements, including a company’s balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement, as required by Rule 4350(d)(2). Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(1) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written audit committee charter specifying the items enumerated in that rule and that its audit committee have reviewed and reassessed the adequacy of the charter on an annual basis. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, we are not required to establish or maintain such an audit committee. The Corporate Law of Japan has no independence requirement with respect to directors of “large” companies (defined under the Corporate Law of Japan as joint stock corporations with stated capital of ¥500 million or more or with total liabilities equal to or exceeding ¥20 billion), including Mitsui, that employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors. In many such “large” companies, functions similar to those of such an audit committee are performed by its board of corporate auditors. We have established such a Board of Corporate Auditors, each of whom does not concurrently serve as a director, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, corporate auditors are elected at a general meeting of shareholders and are under a statutory duty to review the administration of the affairs of Mitsui by its Directors and to examine financial statements and other documents and reports of Mitsui. Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, are required to have at least 50% “external” corporate auditor who must meet additional independence requirements under the Corporate Law of Japan. An external corporate auditor is defined in the Corporate Law of Japan as a corporate auditor who had not served as a director, executive officer, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time prior to the appointment. Currently, we have six Corporate Auditors, four of whom are external Corporate Auditors who meet these additional requirements. Mitsui’s Board of Corporate Auditors has adopted its own regulations setting forth the scope of its responsibilities and the manner in which it carries out such responsibilities, and certain other matters. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(3) requires that compensation of the chief executive officer of each issuer be determined by, or recommended by its board of directors for determination either by (i) a majority of its independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and that compensation of all other executive officers be determined by, or recommended by the board of directors for determination either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. As explained above, we are not required to have independent Directors. With regard to director compensation (excluding bonuses, etc.), the Corporate Law of Japan requires the board of directors to pass a board resolution proposing director compensation to be submitted for approval at a general meeting of shareholders. Within the upper limit approved at the general meeting of shareholders, the board of directors may determine the amount of compensation for each director. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate such decision to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, the upper limit of compensation for its Directors approved by the general meeting of shareholders is 60 million yen per month and the Board of Directors has determined to delegate to the Chief Executive Officer the decision-making authority as to the amount of compensation for each Director within such limit. In addition to regular compensation, the aggregate amount of bonuses and other financial benefits payable to Directors as consideration for the performance of their duties is also subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders under the Corporate Law of Japan. With regard to employee (including officer) compensation, an approval at the general meeting of shareholders is not required under the Corporate Law of Japan. Therefore, the board of directors has the authority to determine matters relating to employee compensation. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate employee compensation matters to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, its Board of Directors has duly resolved Regulations for Executive Officers, which provide that Executive Officers who are also Directors of the Company shall not be paid any compensation in their capacities as 152 Executive Officers and that the compensation of the Executive Officers who are not Directors of the Company shall be decided by the Board of Directors, or decided by the chief executive officer or other Officers authorized by the Board of Directors. Mitsui determines compensation of its Chief Executive Officer and other Officers in accordance with the aforementioned procedures. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to compensation of the chief executive officer and other executive officers under the Corporate Law of Japan. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the compensation of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general meeting of shareholders and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4) requires that director nominees be selected or recommended for the board of directors’ selection either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. Also, Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4)(B) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process and such related matters as may be required under the U.S. federal securities laws. As explained above, we are not required to have independent directors. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, a director may be nominated by (i) a resolution of the board of directors or (ii) a shareholder owning one percent or more of the outstanding shares of a company or 300 or more shares of the company for at least 6 months. Approval by a majority of the shareholders in attendance at a general meeting of shareholders is required to elect a director. There is no specific requirement that a company adopt a written charter or board resolution addressing the nominations process, nor is it customary to do so. As for Mitsui, nominations of Directors of Mitsui are approved at a meeting of the nomination committee, a non-statutory committee established as an advisory board to the Board of Directors, prior to being submitted to a general meeting of shareholders. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to nomination of directors under the Corporate Law of Japan. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the nomination of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general meeting of shareholders and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(f) requires that there be a provision in the by-laws for a quorum for any meeting of the holders of common stock and that such quorum be not less than 33 1/3% of the outstanding shares of the common voting stock. In accordance with the Corporate Law of Japan, however, under our Articles of Incorporation no quorum is required for the adoption of resolutions at a general meeting of shareholders, except for (i) the election of Directors and Corporate Auditors for which the quorum shall not be less than one-third of the total voting rights and (ii) resolutions for other specified issues required by the Corporate Law of Japan (the “special shareholders’ resolutions”), which include an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, a reduction of stated capital, the removal of a Corporate Auditor, dissolution, merger or consolidation requiring shareholders resolution, the transfer of the whole or an important part of the business, the taking over of the whole of the business of any other corporation requiring shareholders’ resolutions, share exchange or share transfer requiring shareholders resolution for the purpose of establishing 100% parent-subsidiary relationships, splitting of the corporation into two or more corporations requiring shareholders’ resolution, any offering of new shares at a “specially favorable” price (or any offering of the rights to subscribe for, or acquire its shares at a “specially favorable” conditions) to any persons other than shareholders, for which the quorum shall be at least one-third of the total voting rights and the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting rights represented at the meeting is required. This approach is consistent with generally accepted business practices of publicly-held companies in Japan. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(g) provides that each issuer solicit proxies and provide proxy statements for all meetings of shareholders and provide copies of such proxy solicitation to Nasdaq. Currently a 153 Japanese company whose shares are listed on the securities exchanges defined in the Securities and Exchange Law, including us, may, but is not required to, solicit proxies for meetings of shareholders. If such a Japanese company solicits proxies for a meeting of shareholders, it is required to provide proxy statements and documents for reference as provided for in the Securities and Exchange Law and provide copies of such proxy statements and documents for reference to the Kanto Local Finance Bureau. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(h) provides that each issuer conduct appropriate review of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis and that all such transactions be approved by the issuer’s audit committee or another independent body of the board of directors. Following the requirements of the Corporate Law of Japan, we require a Director to obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in order for such Director to enter into such transactions. Ÿ Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1) requires that shareholder approval be obtained for the issuance of the issuer’s stock in certain conditions or certain specified transactions described therein. The Corporate Law of Japan requires us to seek shareholder approval of various matters, and in certain instances the special shareholders’ resolutions as described above are required for approval. In addition, while the Corporate Law of Japan permits, in certain instances, the issuance of equity securities without shareholder approval, the Corporate Law of Japan also contains provisions requiring the timely dissemination of information relating to such issuance, allowing for opportunities for shareholders to voice their concern with such issuance, and mandating the election of statutory auditors whose fiduciary duty is to, among other things, oversee on behalf of the shareholders actions by the board of directors relating to such issuance. The rights of ADS holders, including their rights relating to corporate governance practices, are provided in the deposit agreement. Limitation of Liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui provide that Mitsui may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, limit the liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors to the extent as permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui also provide that Mitsui may conclude a contract with external Directors and external Corporate Auditors to limit the liability of such Directors and Corporate Auditors to the extent as permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. In accordance with such provision of the Articles of Incorporation, Mitsui has concluded with external Directors (Mr. Akishige Okada, Mr. Akira Chihaya and Ms. Nobuko Matsubara) and external Corporate Auditors (Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki and Mr. Naoto Nakamura), respectively, contracts to limit their liability to the extent permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. D. Employees As of March 31, 2006 and 2005, we had 40,993 and 38,210 employees, respectively. The average number of temporary employees during the year ended March 31, 2006 was 11,984. From the year ended March 31, 2006, we changed our reportable segments. We restated the figure of employees in the following table as of March 31, 2005 to conform to the current year presentation of operating segments. For more information, see Note 17, “Segment Information,” to our consolidated financial statements. 154 The following table provides the numbers of employees by operating segment as of the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended March 31, 2006 2005 Operating Segment: Iron & Steel Products 2,044 2,044 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 2,504 2,361 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 9,338 7,143 Chemical 3,735 3,792 Energy 1,384 1,555 Foods & Retail 6,555 5,894 Lifestyle, Consumer Services and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 5,607 4,627 Logistics & Financial Markets 1,239 1,159 Americas 2,888 2,677 Europe 1,078 1,084 Asia 2,102 2,221 Other Overseas Areas 535 754 All Other 1,984 2,899 Total 40,993 38,210 As of March 31, 2004, we had 39,735 employees. Effective April 1, 2004, the domestic branches and offices, which had been separated operating units until the year ended March 31, 2004, were integrated into related business units based on the categories of their products and services. Accordingly, “Domestic Branches and Offices” was abolished and components of the reportable segment were transferred to each product-focused operating segment in the Head Office. The number of employees as of March 31, 2004 is provided below. Restatement of the figure of employees at Domestic Branches and Offices as of March 31, 2004 to conform to the current year presentation is not practicable. Year ended March 31, 2004 Operating Segment: Metal Products & Minerals 4,065 Machinery, Electronics & Information 7,243 Chemical 3,581 Energy 1,466 Consumer Products & Services 10,809 Domestic Branches and Offices 2,736 Americas 2,612 Europe 1,098 Other Overseas Areas 3,138 All Other 2,987 Total 39,735 We consider relations between management and our labor unions to be good. 155 E. Share Ownership. Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers As of June 30, 2006, the members of Mitsui’s Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers held as a group, 593,263 shares of our common stock, representing 0.03% of the shares outstanding. This number of shares included 41,509 shares held by Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. None of Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors nor Executive Officers is the beneficial owner of more than 1% of Mitsui’s common stock. The number of shares held by Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers, on an individual basis, is provided in “Item 6.C. Board Practices,” and is incorporated herein by reference. In July, 2006, a new management shareholding scheme was introduced, whereby each of Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers are required to purchase Mitsui’s shares through Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers purchase Mitsui’s shares in an amount equivalent to 10% of his or her salary, which amount is deducted from his or her salary for the purchases through said Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Employees Shareholding Association Mitsui operates an Employees’ Shareholding Association which, as of June 30, 2006, had 3,298 employee member participants. Employee members declare monthly the amount to be deducted from his or her salary to be used to purchase shares of common stock of Mitsui through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members receive from Mitsui a monthly subsidy equivalent to 10% of the declared amount, enabling them to purchase shares equivalent to 110% of the declared amount. Employee members are entitled to dividends which are applied towards the purchase of additional shares through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members are able to sell part of their shares that have been reserved for them under the Employees’ Shareholding Association’s plan, in multiples of 1,000 shares, once every month. As of June 30, 2006, the total amount of shares having voting rights owned by the Employees’ Shareholding Association was 11,397,589, representing 0.66% of the total shares issued and outstanding. Mitsui does not have any other arrangements for involving its employees in the capital of Mitsui, including any arrangement that involves the issue or grant of options, shares or securities of Mitsui. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions. A. Major Shareholders. As of March 31, 2006, there were 1,725,018,515 shares of our common stock issued (including 2,064,447 shares of treasury stock), of which 7,301,180 shares were in the form of ADSs, representing 0.42% of our then outstanding common stock, and 212,267,210 shares, representing 12.31% of our then outstanding common stock, were held of record in the form of common stock by residents in the United States. The number of registered ADS holders was 40, and the number of registered holders of shares of common stock in the United States was 180. 156 The following table shows our major shareholders as of March 31, 2006, including shareholders who owned less than 5% of our then outstanding common stock, disclosed under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan. Shareholders Thousands of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 173,080 10.03 % Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 143,434 8.31 Mitsui Life Insurance Company, Limited 51,033 2.95 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 38,500 2.23 The Chuo Mitsui Trust and Banking Company, Limited 37,410 2.16 The Chase Manhattan Bank NA London 37,270 2.16 Nippon Life Insurance Company 35,070 2.03 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. 32,183 1.86 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 30,375 1.76 State Street Bank and Trust Company 505103 28,620 1.65 (*) The figures are rounded down to two decimal places. Under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan, any person that becomes a holder (together with its related persons) of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company listed on any Japanese stock exchange (including ADSs representing such shares) must file a report with the Director of the relevant Local Finance Bureau and send a copy of such report to the company. A similar report must also be filed if the percentage holding of a holder of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company increases or decreases by 1% or more. Based on such reports we have received, we are aware that each of the following persons, together with its affiliates, was the beneficial owner of our common stock in the amounts and as of the dates shown in the following tables: Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Ltd. Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) March 31, 2004 146,045,454 9.22 % September 30, 2004 132,175,833 8.35 March 31, 2005 105,825,213 6.68 September 30, 2005 98,021,300 6.19 March 31, 2006 76,106,300 4.41 Mitsui Asset Trust Banking Company, Limited Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) November 30, 2003 87,912,465 5.55 % February 22, 2005 70,694,710 4.46 February 28, 2006 71,136,710 4.49 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) April 30, 2003 76,810,314 4.84 % 157 Deutsche Bank AG Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) March 31, 2004 81,768,610 5.16 % May 31, 2004 34,271,518 2.16 Barclays Global Investors Japan Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) September 26, 2005 79,727,817 5.03 % October 31, 2005 82,041,817 5.17 December 6, 2005 63,299,817 4.00 Fidelity Investments Japan Limited Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) December 1, 2005 85,569,000 5.40 % JPMorgan Trust Bank Limited Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) March 31, 2006 88,102,243 5.11 % AllianceBernstein Japan Ltd. Ownership as of Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) March 31, 2006 91,095,320 5.28 % (*) The percentage figures are calculated as of the dates shown in the table. Percentage figures as of March 31, 2006, after the issuance of 130 million shares through the public offering in February 2006 and 9.75 million shares through the third party allotment in March 2006, are not necessarily available from the aforementioned reports. The voting rights of our major shareholders do not differ from the voting rights of other shareholders. To our knowledge, we are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any other corporations, by any foreign government or by any other natural or legal persons severally or jointly. We know of no arrangements which may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of Mitsui. B. Related Party Transactions When conducting our business operations throughout the world, we form alliances with leading partner companies in Japan and overseas, including manufacturers and companies in the field of natural resources, such 158 as energy and ferrous materials. In addition to investing in, or provide loans to, associated companies where we are a minority shareholder, we conduct selling and purchasing transactions of various products on a continuing basis with such associated companies. Our principal associated companies include Valepar S.A. (18.2%), Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (47.3%), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (50.0%), IPM Eagle LLP (30.0%), Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (25.0%), Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (32.4%) and United Auto Group, Inc. (15.4%), among others. The following table shows information regarding account balances and transactions with associated companies: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2006 2005 Accounts receivable, trade ¥ 170 ¥ 197 Advances to associated companies 119 93 Accounts payable, trade 108 95 Dividends received from associated companies for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounted to ¥64 billion, ¥33 billion and ¥19 billion, respectively. See Note 6, “INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES” to our consolidated financial statements. Prices applied in transactions with associated companies are computed in the same way that such prices would be calculated in transactions with unrelated third parties. In addition, when associated companies are counterparties in transactions with us and we conduct such business under long-term procurement and/or sales contracts, in general, we conclude a corresponding sales contract with the purchasers (unrelated parties) of goods procured by us and/or with suppliers (unrelated parties) of the goods we sell to associated companies. Regarding any other commitments related to transactions with associated companies, we do not normally assume risk in excess of its percentage of share ownership in an associated company. In furtherance of their trading activities, it is customary practice for us to loan or guarantee, severally and jointly with others, indebtedness of certain customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. At March 31, 2006, the aggregate amount of loans (including ¥55 billion guarantees) relating to associated companies was ¥139 billion. The largest amount outstanding as of March 31, 2006 was ¥29 billion loan with no interest to P.T. Paiton Energy Co., which owns and operates a coal-fired power plant in East Java, Indonesia. The loan was mainly from Paiton Power Financing B.V., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsui engaged in the financing for P.T. Paiton Energy Co. Other major loans to associated companies are related to the power plant project and the projects in the development of natural resources jointly invested with other partners. In the ordinary course of our business, we have entered into transactions with various organizations with which certain of the our Directors and Senior Management are associated, but no material transactions have been entered into for the three-year period ended March 31, 2006. As of March 31, 2006, no person was the beneficial owner of more than 10% of our common stock. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel. Not applicable. 159 Item 8. Financial Information. A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information. Consolidated Financial Statements The audited consolidated financial statements required by this item are included elsewhere in this annual report. Export Sales The total amount of revenues from export transactions for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥333 billion or 8% of total revenue of ¥4,115 billion. Legal Proceedings Antitrust Suits against Mitsui, Mitsui U.S.A. and Bioproducts Our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary, Bioproducts, Inc., which was producing and selling choline chloride, an ingredient of animal feed and pet foods, was named as a defendant in lawsuits in the United States, together with other third-party choline chloride manufacturers. In these cases, manufacturers of choline chloride allegedly violated U.S. antitrust laws. Although Mitsui and its wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. (“Mitsui U.S.A.”), were neither a manufacturer nor a seller of choline chloride in the U.S. market, Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. were also named as defendants in a class action lawsuits based on the plaintiffs’ allegation that Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. were involved in the violation of antitrust laws. During the course of the legal proceedings, Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. have consistently denied any wrongdoing. However, in the trial before the Federal District Court of the District of Columbia in June 2003, the jury rendered a verdict stating that the defendants participated in the violation of antitrust laws. Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. considered undertaking the legal proceedings necessary to overrule the verdict, but given the circumstances, it was determined that a settlement with the class action plaintiffs would be in the best interest of Mitsui and all of its stakeholders, and entered into an agreement for settlement with the class action plaintiffs by paying U.S.$53.0 million as a settlement amount. The settlement was subject to court approval, which was obtained on April 27, 2005. For other related lawsuits that are still pending, although there can be no assurance of the ultimate results, management believes that there is less than a reasonable possibility that losses in addition to amounts that have been reserved for possible litigation losses will occur, and that the amount of any such additional losses would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other Matters Various other claims and legal actions are pending against us in respect of contractual obligations and other matters arising out of the conduct of our business. Appropriate provision has been recorded for the estimated loss on claims and legal actions including those mentioned above. In the opinion of management, any additional liability will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Dividend Policy We have set the target dividend payout ratio at 20% of consolidated net income, and by growing profits at Mitsui will aim to progressively and sustainably increase dividend payments. Such payments will, however, be subject to our future earnings, financial condition, approval at the shareholders’ meeting (in the case of year-end dividends) and other factors, including statutory and other restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends. 160 B. Significant Changes Except as disclosed in this annual report, there has not been any significant change since the date of the latest annual financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Item 9. The Offer and Listing. A. Offer and Listing Details. The primary market for Mitsui’s common stock is the Tokyo Stock Exchange, or TSE. Mitsui’s common stock is traded on the First Section of the TSE and is also listed on four other stock exchanges in Japan (Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka and Sapporo Stock Exchanges). Mitsui’s American Depository Shares (“ADSs”), each representing 20 shares of common stock, are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol MITSY. American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”), each evidencing one or more ADSs, were originally issued pursuant to a Deposit Agreement in May 1963, as amended from time to time, that we entered into with Citibank N.A. of New York as Depositary and the holders of the ADRs. The following table provides the reported high and low closing sales prices of our common stock on the TSE and the reported high and low closing bid price quotations per ADS for the period indicated: TSE NASDAQ Price per Share ofCommon Stock(Yen) Price per ADS(U.S. dollars)(1) High Low High Low Year ended March 31: 2002 ¥ 926 ¥ 575 $ 152.13 $ 91.00 2003 910 531 146.75 89.40 2004 946 541 181.50 90.90 2005 1,074 773 206.20 137.50 2006 1,731 908 292.66 171.50 Year ended March 31, 2005: First quarter ¥ 1,010 ¥ 773 $ 191.11 $ 137.50 Second quarter 946 801 172.00 144.45 Third quarter 994 841 182.00 163.98 Fourth quarter 1,074 910 206.20 176.94 Year ended March 31, 2006: First quarter ¥ 1,050 ¥ 908 $ 192.44 $ 171.50 Second quarter 1,490 1,015 270.10 182.53 Third quarter 1,583 1,343 267.50 225.98 Fourth quarter 1,731 1,481 292.66 255.30 Year ending March 31, 2007: First quarter ¥ 1,824 ¥ 1,427 $ 326.00 $ 249.42 Month of: March 2006 ¥ 1,702 ¥ 1,491 $ 289.30 $ 255.30 April 2006 1,824 1,669 310.50 284.10 May 2006 1,812 1,548 326.00 278.20 June 2006 1,637 1,427 286.00 249.42 July 2006 1,747 1,533 296.20 264.00 August 2006 1,750 1,656 304.00 287.72 (1) All fractional figures of the prices per ADS are rounded to the nearest two decimal points. 161 Share prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges set daily price limits, which limit the maximum range of fluctuation within a single trading day. Daily price limits are set according to the previous day’s closing price or special quote. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. On September 20, 2006, the closing sales price per share of our common stock on the TSE was ¥1,446, and the closing sales price per ADS on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was U.S.$249.46. B. Plan of Distribution. Not applicable. C. Markets. See “Item 9.A. Offer and Listing Details.” D. Selling Shareholders. Not applicable. E. Dilution. Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue. Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information. A. Share Capital. Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association. General Set forth below is information relating to the organization and common stock of Mitsui, including brief summaries of the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations adopted by Mitsui’s Board of Directors, as currently in effect, and of the Corporate Law of Japan and related legislation. With the revision of the Corporate Law of Japan and related legislation on May 1, 2006, the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations were, among other things, amended as follows: (1) Article 16 of Mitsui’s Article of Incorporation provides that Mitsui may, in convening General Meetings of Shareholders, post on the Internet information required to be recorded or indicated in reference documents for General Meetings of Shareholders, business reports, financial statements and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations. Such posting of information may be deemed to constitute provision of such information to shareholders; 162 (2) Article 18 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that a shareholder may exercise his/her voting rights by proxy who shall be one shareholder of Mitsui with voting rights; (3) Article 24 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation enables the Board of Directors to simplify the resolution process by providing that Mitsui shall deem a resolution of the Board of Directors to have been adopted if all the Directors agree in writing or electromagnetic record thereto and other requirements provided for in the Corporate Law of Japan are satisfied; and (4) Article 32 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation enables Mitsui to enter into agreements to limit the liability of its external Corporate Auditors so that Mitsui may engage suitable personnel who are able to fulfill their expected roles as external Corporate Auditors. Organization Mitsui is a corporation (kabushiki kaisha ) incorporated in Japan under the Corporate Law of Japan. It is registered in the Commercial Register (shogyo tokibo ) maintained by the Tokyo Legal Affairs Bureau and several other registry offices of the Ministry of Justice. Objects and Purposes Article 2 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that our objects are to engage in the following business: 1. Foreign trade, purchases and sales, wholesale, agency and brokerage business relating to the following commodities: (1) Ferrous and non-ferrous metals and their raw materials, manufactured goods, and minerals. (2) Coal, petroleum, natural gas and other fuels and their by-products. (3) All kinds of machines, appliances (including measuring instruments and medical apparatus) and equipment including manufacturing equipment, communications equipment and antipollution equipment, rolling stock and vehicles, ships and boats, aerospace equipment and aircraft, and parts for the foregoing. (4) All kinds of chemical products, salt, fertilizers, high-pressure gas, explosives, pharmaceuticals (including medicines, non-medicinal drugs, medicine for veterinary use, narcotics, poisons and stimulants), radio isotopes, cosmetics, and raw materials for the foregoing. (5) Cereals, sugar, oils and fats, feeds and their raw materials; livestock, agricultural, dairy and marine products, processed foods, alcoholic beverages and other foodstuffs and drinks. (6) All kinds of textile products and their raw materials. (7) All kinds of fur products and raw fur. (8) Lumber, cement, other building materials and housing-related equipment. (9) Rubber, pulp, paper and their manufactured goods; tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and sundry goods. (10) Industrial water and drinking water. 2. Exploration, development, manufacturing, processing, scrapping and recycling business relating to the above-mentioned items. 3. Acquisition, planning, preservation, utilization and disposition of copyright, patents and other intellectual property rights, know-how, systems technology and other software, including acting as an intermediary in such transactions. 