Risk Factors.” With respect to oil and gas exploration and production (“E&P”) business, in our view, the key to success is to constantly increase, or at a minimum maintain, certain volumes of oil and gas reserve prospects as is the common practice for international oil and gas companies. However, despite our management’s intensive focus on expanding our E&P business activities, our oil and gas reserves are still far less than that of the national oil companies of oil producing countries and major oil and gas companies. Other Japanese companies that participate in E&P activities do not commonly disclose their proved oil and gas reserves. Based on the limited proved oil and gas reserves information of other Japanese E&P companies that are publicly available, we believe that we generally have higher amounts of proved oil and gas reserves as compared to most Japanese E&P companies. Accordingly, we believe that we are competitive with other Japanese E&P companies. We are also exploring various new business opportunities in the emerging new energy area. Mitsui expects bio-ethanol to be a crucial renewable fuel in the future, and world demand to rise significantly. In April 2006, Mitsui reached an agreement with Petróleo Brasileiro SA (“Petrobras”) to jointly carry out a feasibility study for production of bio-ethanol and related products in Brazil and for the marketing of such products in the international market. As of the date of this annual report, both parties are studying on integrated supply chain within Brazil. The international markets for crude oil and petroleum products are highly competitive and volatile. In maintaining our competitive edge under these circumstances, it is critical for us to maintain good relationships with customers and suppliers as well as to mitigate price risks by utilizing hedging tools such as the futures markets. We are active in seeking to secure long-term offtake contracts of petroleum products such as fuel oil and condensate to be sold to worldwide companies including Japanese utility and refining companies. Long-term offtake contracts are sales and purchase contracts for various commodities, such as crude oil and petroleum products, entered into by suppliers and buyers, or “offtakers”, of such commodities for more than one year. 39 Table of Contents Concurrent with the offtake contracts, the sellers of such commodities usually enter into financing arrangements whereby the sales proceeds from such commodities are used for repayment. For example, on February, 2004, the Energy Business Unit entered into an offtake contract with PERUSAHAAN PERTAMBANGAN MINYAK DAN GAS BUMINEGRA (“PERTAMINA”), the national oil and gas company of Indonesia, and committed itself to take low sulfur waxy residue produced from PERTAMINA for a period of time, and arranged debt financing for a construction of condensate refinery and petrochemical plant totaling approximately US$400 million, supporting the completion of the construction work and start-up of commercial production which had been suspended due to economic crisis of Indonesia. PERTAMINA has supplied us with the low sulfur waxy residue from its existing refineries and the proceeds from the sales of these products will be used as the source of debt service for the US$400 million loan. The Energy Business Unit is engaged in oil trading operations conducted by Mitsui and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong, China). In February 2007, it decided to wind down Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) and liquidate it by March 31, 2008, following a discovery of concealed significant losses on naphtha trading. Within Japan, we are also engaged in refining and sales of oil and gas related products through Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (Japan), a refinery jointly owned (50:50) by the ExxonMobil Corp. Group and our oil sales subsidiary, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan). In the domestic refining and marketing business for oil and gas related products, we have faced severe competition from domestic oil refining and distributing companies due to the structural surplus situation for refining capacity in Japan. Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), our core associated company and subsidiaries for domestic oil and gas refining and marketing business activities are in relatively sound financial situations owing to the extensive restructuring of inefficient assets and work force, and are pursuing efficient and competitive operations. Japanese Government environmental regulations stipulate that sulfur content must be reduced to 10 parts per million (“ppm”) beginning in 2007 for diesel oil and in 2008 for gasoline. Major Japanese oil refineries and distributors voluntarily started to supply 10 ppm standard products beginning in January 2005, before the restriction came into effect. To maintain a competitive position in the market, Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. has invested in new equipment to strengthen its sulfur removal capabilities. Transformation of its diesel oil equipment was completed in April 2005 and so was gasoline equipment in February 2007. With respect to our LNG related operations, we have entered into various long term sales contracts, based on “take or pay” conditions, with customers such as Japanese utility companies. We believe the worldwide LNG business has been undergoing gradual structural changes since the late 1990’s as follows: • Exploration and development of natural gas and production of LNG require significant capital and financial commitments. Moreover, this involves a broad range of logistical and technological expertise, including linking suppliers to distributors and consumers while developing plants in order to efficiently extract and liquefy the natural gas for transportation and then re-gasifying the LNG. Up until the mid-1990’s, purchase commitments by buyers with full “take or pay” obligations for a period of 20 years or more had been an essential element for equity holders, distributors and sellers of LNG projects to make the capital and financial commitment to build LNG production facilities. These equity investors had resisted making a capital and financial commitment without being able to fully secure stable long-term purchase commitments. In recent years, however, equity holders of several LNG projects have been making investments without fully securing long-term purchase commitments from buyers. • Due to technological innovations in the last decade, LNG producers have successfully reduced capital costs with respect to the construction of LNG production plants and LNG vessels. Technological innovation has also enabled the producers to increase the design capacities of LNG production plants 40 Table of Contents and LNG vessels allowing them to benefit from economies of scale. These technological developments allow LNG to be more competitive with other types of energy sources. • In response to the needs of LNG buyers, the LNG spot market has been expanding, whereby the percentage of spot trades in worldwide LNG contracts rose to 16% in 2006 from 1.3% in 1992. • In addition to the traditional core LNG markets in Japan, the Republic of Korea and Taiwan, the market is rapidly expanding in Europe and the United States. At the same time, new markets have been emerging in countries such as China and India due to an increasing demand for electricity. Considering the sizable economies of these countries and the increasing popularity of LNG as a “clean energy” source, the LNG market has been developing rapidly worldwide. The recent structural changes in the LNG industry, including those mentioned above, continue to have a mixed effect on our business operations. For example, due to the reduction in capital costs from technological innovations, the emergence of the spot LNG market and other factors, not only has the LNG industry become more competitive among existing energy-related companies, but it has also seen an increase of new entrants. Foods & Retail Segment The Foods & Retail Segment consists of one business unit, the Foods & Retail Business Unit, which has 28 subsidiaries including Wilsey Foods Inc. (United States), MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan), Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) and VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. (Japan); and 12 associated companies including Mikuni Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Japan) and SAN-EI Sucrochemical Co., Ltd. (Japan). Gross profit for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥81.3 billion or 9.0% of our consolidated totals. This segment recorded a net loss of ¥12.3 billion or minus 4.1% of our consolidated total. The Foods & Retail Business Unit engages in: • Import and domestic/offshore trade of wheat, barley, soybeans, corn, fats and oils, raw sugar, and rice; • Import and domestic/offshore trade of processed foods such as canned products, frozen foods and condiments, liquor, beverages such as coffee, tea and juice, dairy products, and foodstuffs such as marine products, animal products and vegetables; • Import and domestic trade of packaging, wrapping materials, and miscellaneous daily goods; • Manufacturer of beverages, beverage ingredients, broiler chicken raising; • Domestic distribution and sales through the nationwide wholesaler subsidiary MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan); and • Support services, such as supply chain management including logistics management, and product planning and development for retailers. The Foods & Retail Business Unit is involved in a wide range of fields in a value chain of foods, from the global procurement of food material and production of food products to the traffic and wholesale of foods, packaging materials, and sundry goods. To secure a stable supply source, we purchase grain, oilseeds, and raw sugar from the United States, Canada, Brazil, and Australia and sell them in Japan and other Asian countries. We sell coffee to Japan and United States from our production bases primarily in Brazil. We purchase raw materials for beverages, such as tea leaves and juice, marine products, animal products, and dairy products from major supply sources around the world and deliver them primarily to Japan. We are also engaged in domestic broiler chicken raising, processing, and sales through a subsidiary DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan). 41 Table of Contents We have positioned the United States as our main base of operations and the core of our global food supply strategy. In collaboration with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., this business unit has developed and maintained the following businesses: • In the cereals and grains area, we have formed a joint venture, United Harvest, LLC, with CHS Inc., an agricultural cooperative-based company in the United States. Our exports of wheat from the United States are among the best, amounting to approximately four million tons per annum. • Ventura Foods, LLC, another joint venture formed with CHS Inc., is one of the largest suppliers of cooking oils for the institutional market in the United States. We invest in this company through WILSEY FOODS, INC. (United States). In food-manufacturing operations, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), which became our subsidiary during the year ended March 31, 2004, is engaged in beverage business as one of the major manufacturers of tea leaves in Japan. Competition varies depending on products in the upstream areas of grain, feed, sugar and food materials, but is primarily based on price and quality of products. Many Japanese general trading companies, international producers, and traders are competitors to varying degrees with respect to most of the food products we handle. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) plays a vital role in this unit’s wholesale operations. Its wide-range business activities and customers include general merchandise stores, supermarkets, convenience stores, and catering and restaurant chains throughout Japan, focusing on processed food and liquor transactions. The Foods & Retail Business Unit is developing and strengthening its nationwide distribution chain focused on MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., including investments and business tie-ups from Mitsui with regional wholesalers. In the foodstuffs distribution field, the needs for reduced distribution costs, secure temperature-controlled supply, and faster delivery are becoming more sophisticated and diverse. To meet these challenges, this business unit is engaging in wholesale transactions with and providing support services to retailers. These include: • inventory management and procurement of foodstuffs, processed foods, and packaging based on sales information obtained from retailers; and • proposals for developing new products and services, and support in the form of traceability for securing food safety. In April 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui agreed with KOKUBU & CO., LTD., a major Japanese food wholesaler, to form a business alliance, which includes support by KOKUBU & CO., LTD. for improvement of management and operations of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and cooperation in product categories to be reinforced by both companies. 1) Mitsui maintains a comprehensive alliance with Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan’s nationwide diversified retailer, which mainly engages in convenience stores, general merchandise stores, department stores, restaurant chains, retail banking service. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. maintains operation in China such as SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) established in April 2004. i) In April 2007, Mitsui agreed with Kokubu &Co., Ltd. to enter into an equity alliance in wholesale businesses of foods and liquor in Hokkaido area, Japan. The agreement includes a capital restructuring of Hokushuren Co., Ltd. (Japan), a foods and liquor wholesale subsidiary, by capital reduction and allocation of new shares to Mitsui; transfer of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.’s business in Hokkaido area (excluding Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.-related businesses) to Hokushuren Co., Ltd.; and Kokubu’s purchase of 70% share in Hokushuren Co., Ltd. in October 2007. 42 Table of Contents Mitsui offers the following supply services to Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. through our domestic subsidiaries, such as MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., Retail System Service Co., Ltd. and VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. • supply sundry goods and consumables, such as processed food, liquor, fast food, toys, and games, to more than eleven thousand 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply food materials, containers, and packaging materials to vendors who supply boxed lunches, pre-cooked meals, and processed food to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply various temperature-controlled products to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; and • supply cold products through the affiliate company Beijing Sanxin Refrigeration Logistics Co., Ltd. to 7-Eleven stores in Beijing. This business unit owns 1.67% of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.’s outstanding shares as of end of February 2007. This business unit purchased shares totaling ¥50 billion in Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. and Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. in 2005 seeking to strengthen our business ties with them. Later on, in September 2005, Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. was established as a holding company of the Ito-Yokado Group. Our competitors in the wholesale and retail businesses are mainly general trading companies in Japan. In the traffic area, our competitors are also traffic companies that operate third-party logistics providing customized and integrated warehousing and transportation services. In domestic wholesaling, there is fierce competition among suppliers, and we are making efforts to increase revenues and reduce logistics costs by achieving better economies of scale through mergers and acquisitions from time to time. Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment This segment is comprised of the Lifestyle Business Unit; the Consumer Service Business Unit; and the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥130.0 billion or 14.4% and ¥16.6 billion or 5.5% of our consolidated total, respectively. This segment owns 41 subsidiaries including: • Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (Japan) in the Lifestyle Business Unit; • BUSSAN REAL ESTATE CO., LTD. (Japan) and MBK Real Estate Ltd. (United States) in the Consumer Service Business Unit; and • Telepark Corp. (Japan), NextCom K.K. (Japan), Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan), TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan) and Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) in the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. And it has 39 associated companies including: • ALCANTARA S.p.A. (Italy) in the Lifestyle Business Unit; • QVC Japan Inc. (Japan), AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Consumer Service Business Unit; and • Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) in the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. 43 Table of Contents Lifestyle Business Unit Together with 11 subsidiaries and 13 associated companies, the Lifestyle Business Unit is engaged in domestic, import, export and offshore trading and manufacturing of the following materials and products, as well as related services and investments: • apparel products, including development and manufacturing of those products; and brand merchandize-related businesses including equity participation in joint ventures with brand owners and brand licensing; • textile raw materials and fabrics; and technical collaboration in these products field; • consumer goods including beauty and health products; and interior and living items; and • industrial materials such as pulp and paper. In the apparel products and textile field, we provide services to accommodate developments in the fashion and apparel markets. Our main business activities are divided into two categories: • original equipment manufacturing (“OEM”) business for domestic and overseas apparel manufacturers; and • business transactions involving branded luxury and accessible luxury products from Europe and the United States for the Japanese market as well as brand licensing businesses in Japan. In the field of apparel and OEM, we play roles at various stages in the value chain, including design, planning and procurement of materials as well as sewing and processing. To minimize costs and enhance quality, we work with apparel makers and their affiliated companies to select the optimal materials and processing sites from a variety of measures available in Japan, Europe, the Americas, Asia and other areas. We regard China as an important manufacturing base and also a significant consumer market as well. To further strengthen our OEM business capabilities, Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (Japan) and Alta Moda International Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) offer well-organized manufacturing process management led by experts hired specially for that role. With respect to brand businesses in Japan, we are engaged in both license and import business transactions involving internationally well-known branded merchandise from Europe and the United States such as Burberry, Paul Stuart, Trussardi, Valentino, Max Mara, Etro and Juicy Couture. With the European and American licensors we enter into license agreements, to retain our exclusive marketing rights; or to sublicense certain rights including marketing and manufacturing rights to apparel makers and wholesalers while we retain our right to use trademark in certain markets. We, if necessary, establish joint ventures with such brand owners, which control license arrangements or distribute imported products in order to establish nationwide sales network consisting of wholesalers, department stores, specialty-stores or retail outlets. In brand businesses, our competitors are other general trading companies and apparel specialty traders including Itochu Corporation and Mitsubishi Corporation. The keys to maintain our competitiveness are to raise the value of the brand which we promote in the market and to increase the number of valuable brands we deal with. In the business area of consumer goods, responding to the changes in lifestyles, we seek new materials and new suppliers, arrange effective distribution methods and develop attractive brands. High-quality consumer goods imported from around the world include Sonicare ultrasonic toothbrushes, Brunswick bowling equipment and systems, Maglite handy flashlights, and top-of-the-line Lladro porcelain In the business of industrial materials, we trade woodchip and pulp, furthermore, develop several afforestation projects in Australia, some of which are jointly developed with several Japanese partners including paper manufacturing companies. As for paper and ceramic products, we have established and operated joint ventures in China with Japanese manufacturers, as well as handling those products for domestic and export market in Japan. 44 Table of Contents Consumer Service Business Unit Major business areas of this business unit, including 17 subsidiaries and 18 associated companies, consist of the following: • real estate development including construction, sale and leasing of houses, condominiums, commercial facilities, senior housing and office buildings and related construction material businesses; • media-related service business including broadcasting, content service, television shopping channels, software service, amusement business and Internet-based marketing service; • outsourcing services including catering, uniform rental, building maintenance, and temporary personnel service, child care service; • medical service and health care related businesses such as nursing care-related services, clinic facilities and medical-related information service. Real estate development businesses include the following activities: • Mitsui engages in development of condominium and commercial property in the Tokyo metropolitan area. Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) had engaged in high-end home units business, however, due to shrinking market in Japan, it decided to withdraw from the business in August 2006. • MBK Real Estate Ltd. (United States) handles the development and sale of unit houses and senior housing properties in the California market, as well as commercial properties on the West Coast of the United States. • An associated company Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) supplies construction materials in the domestic market. • Mall & SC Development, Inc. (Japan) which was jointly established with Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. in March 2005 is engaged in development and management of shopping malls and shopping centers. In the media-related service business, as a consumer service and content provider, we provide television shopping services operated by an associated company, QVC Japan, Inc. (Japan), which was established jointly with QVC Inc. of the United States; and an entertainment and educational channel for children and parents operated by Kids Station Inc. (Japan), our subsidiary, both of which are delivered over cable or digital satellite broadcast networks. In the outsourcing businesses, AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan), an associated company jointly established with ARAMARK Corporation in the United States, has provided a variety of services in Japan since 1976. Its major businesses are contract food service and related support services for companies, schools, hospitals and social welfare facilities. In December 2005 it acquired MEFOS Ltd, a provider of hospital food service, at 100% share ownership. Domestic food service market has been stagnated and mergers and acquisitions by leading companies are ongoing. It is also engaged in refreshment services for offices; design, cleaning and facilities management; linen supply and uniform rental; and contract staffing to dining facilities, coping with diversified needs for outsourcing services in Japan. We are in the process of cultivating new opportunities in medical services such as a joint venture with Recruit Co., Ltd., which provides a healthcare information service on the Internet. This business unit also made 5% equity participation in and formed an alliance with Duskin Co., Ltd., which is engaged in cleaning services, food services and nursing care services throughout Japan. Mitsui acquired 5% outstanding shares in Recruit Co., Ltd. for ¥27 billion in February 2007. At the same time, Mitsui and Recruit Co., Ltd. entered into business collaboration agreement in order to explore new business opportunities in areas including medical and senior-care businesses. 45 Table of Contents Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit The Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit is involved in information technology services and solutions. These are delivered through the unit’s 13 subsidiaries and 8 associated companies established in the following five major fields: • network and systems integration (“NI/ SI”) businesses; • mobile communication businesses including sales agency of mobile handset and telecommunications lines; and development and sales of mobile content; • business process outsourcing services including enterprise information management and call-center services; • semiconductors related businesses including sales agency for semiconductor chips, semiconductor manufacturing equipments and semiconductor inspection equipments; and • display related businesses including export and trading of flat-panel displays and parts. In the field of NI/SI businesses, NextCom K.K. (Japan), a subsidiary and Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), an associated company both listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, provide integrated solutions to a wide range of customers. • NextCom K.K. provides services, such as consultation, designing, building and operation of network systems to a wide range of customers including telecommunications carriers, government offices, local municipalities and healthcare and education related public bodies. It is also engaged in planning and development of network systems which are equipped with voice recognition technology and typically used by call centers; and in high-security systems such as automatic billing systems used by pay-TV broadcasters. In December 2004, NextCom K.K. was merged with other two subsidiaries in software development and data telecommunications equipment marketing businesses. Furthermore, in December 2006, NextCom K.K. agreed on a merger with Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., another subsidiary in the system integration business, to seek expanding business opportunities i). • Nihon Unisys, Ltd. is engaged in designing and building of computer systems, business process outsourcing services, support services and other peripheral services as well as sales of computer systems. These services are provided to business enterprises in the financial, manufacturing and distribution and public sectors. Mitsui owns a 32.4% voting interest in Nihon Unisys, Ltd. as of March 2006. Unisys Corporation in the United States, which formerly held the same equity stake as Mitsui, sold its entire shareholding in Nihon Unisys, Ltd. in March 2006, and Mitsui has since been its single largest shareholder. We are engaged in various mobile communication businesses through alliances with domestic cell phone service providers and manufacturers. Telepark Corp. (Japan), one of major agencies for cell phone subscription as well as a retailer and distributor of cell phone handsets in Japan, is a core subsidiary in this field. It sold 3.6 million cell phones for the year ended March 31, 2007. It has also acted as agent for subscription of fixed telecommunications lines, including broadband connections. Telepark Corp. was established in 2001 by a merger of three Mitsui subsidiaries that had engaged in sales agency of telecommunications lines and related businesses since 1990s. Today, Telepark Corp. is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The market for business process outsourcing services has been expanding in Japan. We have developed those businesses through a subsidiary, TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan), and an associated company, Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan). TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan), which has been engaged in distribution of i) NextCom K.K. and Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. merged in April 2007. The new company has been operating under corporate name of Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. 46 Table of Contents information processing devices such as optical character readers (“OCR”) and information input devices, has recently focused on enterprise information management such as customer information input, management and operation. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) is one of the Japan’s major providers of call centers and related outsourcing services. Originally in 1987, it was established by Mitsui and eleven minor shareholders. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. later went public on the over-the-counter market and is now listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, with our current voting interest at 34.3%. In the field of electronics products, Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) acts as a sales agent for semiconductor related devices, manufacturing equipment and inspection equipment. In recent years, Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) has focused on providing semiconductor related products and services to Japanese customers who are shifting their production bases to China. This business unit also engages in export and offshore trading of flat-panel displays and related parts. This business unit is dependent on the business of our subsidiaries and associated companies, most of which are located in Japan, where technological development is rapid and competition is fierce. Our important function involves business incubation of IT related products and services, as seen in the case with Telepark Corp. and Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment The Logistics & Financial Markets Segment is engaged in transportation and logistics services, insurance and financial business in Japan and abroad. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥60.5 billion or 6.7% and ¥14.6 billion or 4.8% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment is composed of the Financial Markets Business Unit and the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, and has 36 subsidiaries including: • in the Financial Markets Business Unit, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals HK Ltd. (Hong Kong, China); and • in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. (Japan), Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan) and TRI-NET (JAPAN) INC. (Japan). This segment has 6 associated companies including Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan) and Quintiles Transnational Japan K.K. (Japan) in the Financial Markets Business Unit and Mitsui Direct General Insurance Company, Limited (Japan) and BALtrans Holdings Limited (Hong Kong, China) in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit. Financial Markets Business Unit This business unit has 23 subsidiaries and 2 associated companies and is engaged in the following business activities: • dealing in derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange and financial futures, and trading of and investment in debt and equity securities; • trading in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities; • financial equity investments including principal investment and venture capital operation; • real estate investment trust (“REIT”) related businesses; 47 Table of Contents • development, origination and sales of financial products, investment in and portfolio management of financial products; and • leasing businesses Mitsui and its subsidiaries such as Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals HK Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) are engaged in trading and brokerage in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities. We are also engaged in sales and marketing of various derivative and financial instruments of our own development to investors and market participants. Mitsui & Co., Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), which we established in March 2002, enjoyed growth in derivative trading operations, mainly of crude oil and natural gas related commodities. Japan Alternative Investment Co., Ltd. (Japan) began operations in April 2002, acting as placement agent for alternative investment products, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and commodity funds. In the financial equity investments field, subsidiaries such as MVC Corporation (Japan) have made investments in ventures mainly in IT and medical care businesses. In August 2006, this business unit invested in a limited partnership which was established for investment in Skylark Co., Ltd., a Japanese restaurant chain, at 9.3% stake of the fund as a limited partner i). In July 2004, this business unit formed Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd. (Japan), as an asset management company for REITs that specialize in the management of investments in warehouses and distribution centers. In May 2005, Japan Logistics Fund Inc. to which Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd. renders asset management service was listed at the Tokyo Stock Exchange as the Japan’s first logistics facilities related REIT. Later on, the REIT increased capital by public offering in February 2006 reflecting growing asset size. We have a 40.7% voting interest in Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan), a leasing company with its strengths in leasing of information-processing equipments and large scale equipment, as well as industrial machinery, aircrafts and ocean vessels. Transportation Logistics Business Unit The Transportation Logistics Business Unit provides sophisticated, high value added logistics services to customers leveraging its longstanding experience in offering such services groupwide. This business unit also seeks the development of new business domains through integrating logistics, financial and information technology. Together with 13 subsidiaries and 4 associated companies, this business unit is engaged in the following business activities: • international and domestic transportation services including transportation of plants and other special cargos, tramper shipping, and airfreight; • warehousing and port services; operation, construction and management of warehouses and harbor facilities; • insurance agency and insurance consultation; • solutions services for logistics, including SCM; and • establishment and operation of REITs which invest in logistics facilities. i) In April 2007, Mitsui agreed to enter into a strategic alliance in consumer finance business with Central Finance Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Sumitomo Mitsui Card Co., Ltd. and Quoq, Inc., and acquired approximately 10% share ownership of Central Finance Co., Ltd. through an allocation of new shares. With other parties, Mitsui is studying expansion to overseas credit card business operation and development of new businesses. 48 Table of Contents In the international and domestic transport services field, we have established 5 core subsidiaries including Tri-Net (Japan) Inc., which cover our operations in Japan, the Americas, Europe, South East Asia, and China, respectively. Each of those subsidiaries collaborates with the Head Office and overseas trading subsidiaries worldwide, and provides international transportation services mainly using marine containers. They also provide international combined transportation services by integrating land, sea and air transportation. In the tramper business, they provide transportation services for power and chemical plant projects and bulky cargoes such as coal, grain and fertilizers. We have been making investments to expand our logistics businesses in the BRICs countries, the Middle East and other emerging markets. For example, in January 2006 we acquired a 25% equity stake in BALtrans Holdings, Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) which is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and maintains 14 distribution bases in mainland China. In Russia, we have organized large scale distribution operations outside Moscow that provide services to local bases of Japanese electronics, construction machinery and automotive companies. In India, we plan joint development projects with Indian partners in a free trade warehouse zone near Delhi. In the field of warehousing, distribution and port service related business within Japan, we have put high priority in management integration of three domestic subsidiaries, KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD. (Japan), Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan) and TOSHIN SOKO KAISHA, LTD. (Japan) seeking for operational efficiency. Participants in this business is required to provide sophisticated and integrated logistics service, for example, Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. conducts joint operations with a domestic specialty store retailer of private label apparel for outsourced production and inventory management. It provides information processing functions so that its customers optimize their logistics transactions. This business unit has a subsidiary, Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan), as an insurance agency. In addition, the business unit has acquired insurance companies for captive insurance and operates subsidiaries which are engaged in this business field, including Insurance Company of Trinet (USA), Inc. This business unit also maintains certain direct insurance businesses, by taking advantage of the experience and know-how in risk management of this business unit. In collaboration with the Financial Markets Business Unit, this business unit has developed logistics-related real estate property REITs. This unit intends to increase the assets for such REIT programs, seeking opportunities for the development of facilities, brokerage in properties and tenants. Americas Segment The Americas Segment trades in various commodities and conducts related business led by overseas trading subsidiaries in North, Central and South America. Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., or Mitsui U.S.A., manages the business of the segment as the center of the regional strategy. Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Americas Business Unit was formed, encompassing all trading subsidiaries operating in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated authority of operations within the region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥64.7 billion or 7.2% and ¥16.9 billion or 5.6% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment consists of 9 trading subsidiaries including Mitsui U.S.A., Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. and Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A., 26 other subsidiaries owned mainly by Mitsui U.S.A. including Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc., Westport Petroleum Inc., Mitsui Steel, Inc., Channel Terminal Company LLC and Portac, Inc. and 2 associated companies. Mitsui U.S.A. is our largest overseas subsidiary, and carries out many diversified business activities together with our subsidiaries and associated companies, in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office in Japan. Mitsui U.S.A. has been leading our entry in the U.S. market, and we believe that Mitsui U.S.A. is one of the major exporters of American products. 49 Table of Contents Business activities of Mitsui U.S.A.’s major operating divisions are as follows: • The Iron & Steel Products Division maintains alliances with steel makers, steel processors, and customers in the U.S. and other countries. Working closely with solution providers, it specializes in SCM of steel products, manages inventory and process arrangements. This division has two major subsidiaries of Mitsui Steel, Inc. for steel product sales and demand chain management services; and Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc which owns Mi-Tech Steel Inc., a steel service center, PK U.S.A., Inc., an automotive steel stamping, Hannibal Industries, Inc., a steel tube and pallet rack manufacturing operator, Champions Pipe & Supply, a pipe distributor, and MTP LLC, a pipe sales entityi). • The Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Division engages in iron and steel raw materials, non-ferrous metal resources, steel and metal recycling, non-ferrous metal products and petroleum coke. The division has 50% equity share of Raw Materials Development Co., Ltd.. • The Infrastructure Projects Division engages in the projects in the Americas. This division has subsidiaries such as Hydro Capital Corp. for water treatment projects in Mexico and MIT Wind Power, Inc. for wind power generation in Texas. • Through close coordination with the Head Office, the Machinery Division engages in the businesses of motor vehicles, ship and marine projects, aircraft and construction and industrial machinery. It focuses on automobile, construction machinery, outdoor power equipment, newly built vessels to oil major and shipping companies, and aircraft leasing for regional airlinesii). • The Organic Chemicals Division and the Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Division are engaged in the domestic and international trade of various chemical products. In addition, International Terminal Company is engaged in the chemical tank leasing business and CornerStone Research & Development Inc. focuses on processing and packaging of healthcare foods and supplements. • The Energy Division specializes in the global trading of petroleum products, crude oil, petroleum coke and LNG. Westport Petroleum, Inc. is engaged in sales, trading and commercial and operational services to the energy industry with respect to pipeline and cargo trading of petroleum products throughout major international energy markets. These transactions by Westport Petroleum, Inc. account for a significant portion of our revenues from sales of products groupwide. • The Foods and Retail Division deals in grain, coffee, foods materials and other foods products. This division has a subsidiary, United Grain Corp, which invests in United Harvest, LLC, a joint venture with CHS Inc. for export facility operations for wheat and barley, and also has 20% minority interest in WILSEY FOODS INC. See also “Foods &Retail Business Unit” for business collaboration with CHS Inc. Additionally, Mitsui Foods Inc. is specialized in the import food distribution business. • The Consumer Service Business Division and other remaining division focus on consumer-oriented business development. This division has MBK Real Estate Ltd., a real estate subsidiary jointly owned by the Head Office and engaged in development and homebuilding services. In November 2006, Mitsui U.S.A. acquired SunWize Technologies, Inc, which engages in design, manufacture and distribution of integrated solar power system. Europe Segment The Europe Segment trades in various commodities and conducts related businesses led by overseas trading subsidiaries in Europe and Africa. Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC (“Mitsui Europe”) is authorized to manage the i) Furthermore, Mitsui U.S.A. completed an acquisition of Steel Technologies Inc., a steel processor which operates 24 steel processing facilities in North America, in June 2007. ii) In addition, in May 2007, Mitsui U.S.A. entered into an agreement to acquire 87.5% of the shares of Affiliated Financial Corporation and BayQuest Capital Corporation, which provide automotive related financing service throughout the United States. 50 Table of Contents business of this segment as the center of its regional strategy. In addition, this segment carries out diversified business activities in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office. Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Europe Business Unit was formed consisting of those trading subsidiaries in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated authority of operations within the region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥23.3 billion or 2.6% and ¥3.8 billion or 1.3% of our consolidated totals, respectively. As of March 31, 2007, this segment consisted of 10 trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui Europe, Mitsui & Co. UK PLC and Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH, 4 subsidiaries and 5 associated companies. Mitsui Europe, our wholly-owned subsidiary with its head office in London, manages the overall business activities in Western Europe, Africa, Central, Eastern Europe and Turkey through its 9 operating subsidiaries, 13 branch offices and liaison offices. Mitsui Europe collaborates with our subsidiaries and associated companies of other operating segments. In April 2005, this segment reorganized its internal structure. Before the change, each of those operating subsidiaries independently reported to the Managing Director of Mitsui Europe, with the result that their business plans and operations tended to be limited to specific countries. In order to accelerate business development based on a product strategy that encompasses the whole of Europe, this segment introduced a Business Division System within Europe, in which Divisional Operating Officers oversee operations by products and services in the region and directly report to Managing Director of Mitsui Europe. Recently, the major parts of business in this segment have been sales and trading in steel products, chemicals and machinery. For example, this segment provided assistance services for SCM of steel products procured by Norsk Hydro ASA. In the chemical business, this segment has been engaged in sales and trade in various chemical products and materials supported by our global network and relationship with large scale manufactures including Bayer Aktiengesellschaft. In machinery business, for Mitsui’s worldwide power plant and industrial plant and transportation projects, this segment has provided assistance service in collaboration with European manufacturers such as Siemens Aktiengesellschaft. Over the years, in Central and Eastern Europe, we have established trading subsidiaries and representative offices to expand business opportunities in the region, and have continuously participated in joint ventures, mainly with Japanese manufactures. In connection with the enlargement of European Union, Japanese automobile, electric and chemical manufactures are rushing to set up operations in the region. We are collaborating with them by taking advantage of our existing business bases. Asia Segment In order to develop new business opportunities emerging with the development of network economies based around China, the ASEAN countries and India, we introduced an Asian Regional Managing Directorship system. Broad authority and responsibility to manage our businesses throughout non-Japan Asia is delegated to the Regional Managing Director, Asia starting in the year ended March 31, 2006. Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Asia Business Unit was formed and consists of the trading subsidiaries, branches and liaison offices in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated authority of operation within this region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥27.6 billion or 3.1% and ¥7.9 billion or 2.6% of our consolidated totals, respectively. 51 Table of Contents China China has been a focus of recent global attention, with 10.7% and 9.9% growth in gross domestic product in 2006 and 2005, respectively, as a result of its accession to the WTO and a growing reputation as an efficient and cost effective manufacturer of goods. We have been increasing our operations in, and shifting management resources to, Greater China, which includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, in order to expand and strengthen our business operations involving products such as automobiles, consumer products, IT, electronics, energy and metals, while reinforcing our transportation and logistics services. Our presence in China is comprised of ten local trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd., an investing company in Beijing, Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. and six trading subsidiaries in China’s bonded areas including Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. In addition, we have established representative offices in 12 cities in China as of March 2007. In September 2005, Mitsui received approval from the Chinese Ministry of Commerce to establish three wholly owned trading companies, permitting us to conduct import and export and wholesale trade domestically within China, which would enable us to trade in a broader range of products, including value added services in finance and logistics. Thus, Mitsui & Co. (China) Trading Ltd. and Mitsui & Co. (Guangdong) Ltd. were established in 2005 and started operations. Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has made investments jointly with the business units of the Head Office in critical joint ventures in China. Among others, we place a high priority on establishment of logistics network within China. For example: • In March 2003, we entered into a comprehensive strategic alliance with China Postal Logistics Co., Ltd. Through this alliance, we are in a position to utilize the facilities and distribution networks of China’s postal service, the China State Post Bureau. • Mitsui International Logistics and Trade (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., in which Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has minority share, has the right to conduct import and export under our own name outside a bonded area. ASEAN Region In the ASEAN region, overseas offices including the Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Manila branches, trading subsidiaries including Mitsui & Co., (Thailand) Ltd., Mitsiam International Ltd. (Thailand), PT Mitsui Indonesia (Indonesia) and associated companies jointly collaborate with the Head Office and engage in various business activities involving, among other things, chemical and metal products and industrial type projects. With the Head Office, these branches and trading subsidiaries jointly establish various subsidiaries and participate in joint ventures formed with the third parties. In December 2006, we obtained a special approval from the Vietnamese government to establish trading subsidiaries, and Mitsui & Co. Vietnam Ltd. started operations in April 2007. Southwest Asia Our operations in India were traditionally handled by branch offices in New Delhi, Calcutta, Madras and Bombay and were concentrated primarily in exporting commodities, such as iron ore, finished iron and steel products, textiles, and marine products, to Japan and other areas of the world. However, with the increasing deregulation of the Indian economy, in March 2003 we established Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd. Through Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd, we expect not only to engage in import and export-related transactions but also to pursue investment opportunities in domestic distribution channels. 52 Table of Contents Other Overseas Areas Segment This segment includes all of our region-based subsidiaries, liaison offices and affiliated companies excluding those in our Americas, Europe and Asia Segments. The subsidiaries, liaison offices and associated companies in this segment are located primarily in Oceania, the Middle East, and CIS. The Overseas Areas Segment is engaged in business activities that are essentially similar to that of Mitsui. We conduct business activities in all industry sectors based on our specialized knowledge particular to that region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥5.3 billion or 0.6% and ¥14.4 billion or 4.8% of consolidated totals, respectively. Oceania In Australia, Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. is active in the development of minerals such as iron ore and coal, energy and agricultural exports in collaboration with corresponding operating segments, mainly in the Head Office. As described in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and the Energy Segment above, Australia is a critical geographic area in our corporate strategy. Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. participates in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) with equity shares of 20% and 30%, respectively. The Middle East In the Middle East we have established trading subsidiaries Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. (United Arab Emirates), Mitsui and Co. (Middle East) B.S.C.(c) (Bahrain), Mitsui and Co., Iran Ltd. (Iran) and Mitsui and Co. Kuwait W.L.L. (Kuwait). Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. owns offices in United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman. Mitsui has 10 representative offices in the Middle East countries including Saudi Arabia. These trading subsidiaries and offices in the Middle East collaborate with the Head Office primarily in the field energy development and production and projects of petrochemical plants and power plants. All Other Segment The operations of the All Other Segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥4.4 billion or 0.5% and ¥5.9 billion or 2.0% of our consolidated totals, respectively. The All Other Segment has 14 subsidiaries and 2 associated companies. The activities of major subsidiaries in this segment are as follows: • Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. is engaged in financial services such as commercial loan and cash management services, mainly provided to domestic subsidiaries and associated companies. • Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. (Singapore) is engaged in-house financial services in the South East Asian region. 53 Table of Contents Principal Markets We are involved in the worldwide trading of various commodities. The following table provides a breakdown of our revenues by commodity type for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues(1), Distribution by Commodity: Iron and Steel ¥ 624.0 ¥ 523.7 ¥ 406.7 Non-Ferrous Metals 99.9 102.2 161.8 Machinery 430.9 368.0 264.9 Electronics & Information 182.7 164.9 144.7 Chemicals 1,146.6 886.7 729.1 Energy 1,637.6 1,360.5 1,035.1 Foods 467.0 424.6 473.6 Textiles 45.6 42.4 43.0 General Merchandise 63.4 78.8 96.1 Property and Service Business 183.0 163.7 139.6 Consolidated Total ¥ 4,880.7 ¥ 4,115.5 ¥ 3,494.6 Notes: (1) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, revenues from discontinued operations are eliminated from each product amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures for the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The following table shows our total trading transactions in each of our major markets for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.(1)(2)(3) In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Japan ¥ 8,932.8 ¥ 8,554.6 ¥ 7,719.4 United States 1,160.7 1,265.0 1,091.3 China 900.2 879.0 738.7 All Other 4,364.0 4,187.2 4,034.5 Consolidated Total ¥ 15,357.7 ¥ 14,885.8 ¥ 13,583.9 Notes: (1) Total trading transactions is a voluntary disclosure as permitted by Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent,” and represents the gross transaction volume or the nominal aggregate value of the sales contracts in which we act as principal and transactions in which we serve as agent. Total trading transactions is not meant to represent sales or revenues in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Total trading transactions should not be construed as equivalent to, or a substitute or proxy for, revenues, or as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity or cash flows generated by operating, investing or financing activities. A substantial part of total trading transactions represents transactions in which title to and payment for the goods pass through us without physical acquisition and delivery through our inventories. We have included the information concerning total trading transactions because it is used by similar Japanese trading companies as an industry benchmark, and we believe it is a useful supplement to results of operations data as a measure of our performance compared to other similar Japanese trading companies. Total trading transactions is 54 Table of Contents included in the measure of segment profit and loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. See Notes 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” and 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION” accompanying the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) Total trading transactions are attributed to countries based on the location of customers. (3) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, total trading transactions to external customers from discontinued operations are eliminated from each geographic area amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures for the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. C. Organizational Structure. We are a global general trading company and we conduct our business with our subisidiaries and associated companies. As of March 31, 2007, we had 373 subsidiaries and 192 associated companies that are accounted for by the equity method. The table below provides information on our significant subsidiaries as of March 31, 2007. We have supplementarily provided voting power where it differs from ownership interest. Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Iron & Steel Products Mitsui Bussan Construction Materials Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of construction materials and semi-assembled steel products 100.0 SINTSUDA CORPORATION Japan Wholesale of steel products 100.0 Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. Singapore Wholesale and retail of steel products 85.0 Seikei Steel Tube Corp. Japan Manufacture and sales of steel tube 70.0 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 100.0 Sesa Goa Limited India Mining and sales of Indian iron ore and processing and sales of coke 51.0 Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 70.0 Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Australia Investments in Australian coal business 100.0 Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Netherlands Investments in a copper mine in Chile 61.9 Raw Materials Development Co., Ltd. United States Investments in ferrous raw materials business 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Raw Materials Development Corp. Japan Wholesale of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap and ferroalloys 100.0 MITSUI BUSSAN METALS SALES CO., LTD.(1) Japan Sales of non-ferrous material products and metals 100.0 55 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Machinery & Infrastructure Projects MBK Project Holdings Ltd. Japan Investments in manufacturers of plant-related materials and equipment 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Project Corp.(2) Japan Management support for plant projects 100.0 Mitsui Power Ventures Limited United Kingdom Investments in power generation business 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. United States Freightcar leasing and management in North America 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Participacoes Ltda. Brazil Freightcar leasing and management in Brazil 100.0 MITSUI GAS E ENERGIA DO BRASIL LTDA.(3) Brazil Investments in gas distribution companies 100.0 MIT POWER CANADA LP INC. Canada Investment in Greenfield Power Generation Project in Ontario 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. Netherlands Locomotive leasing and management in Europe 100.0 Toyota Chile S.A. Chile Import and sales of automobiles and auto parts in Chile 100.0 P.T. Bussan Auto Finance Indonesia Motorcycle retail finance 90.0 Mitsui Automotive Europe B.V. Netherlands Investments in automotive-related companies and trading of automobiles 100.0 Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 Clio Marine Inc. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 CM Pacific Maritime Corporation Liberia Shipping business 100.0 MMK CO., LTD. Japan Sales of machine tools and injection molding machine 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Aerospace Co., Ltd. Japan Import and sales of helicopters and defense and aerospace products 100.0 Chemical P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak Indonesia Production and sales of anhydrous ammonia 55.0 Japan-Arabia Methanol Company Ltd. Japan Investments in methanol producing business in Saudi Arabia and sales of products 55.0 MITSUI BUSSAN SOLVENT & COATING CO., LTD. Japan Sales and trading of solvents and coating materials 100.0 Novus International, Inc. United States Manufacturing and sales of feed additives 65.0 Mitsui AgriScience International SA/NV Belgium Investments in crop protection businesses in Europe 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Agro Business Co., Ltd. Japan Development and sales of fertilizers and agricultural products 100.0 Daito Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Production and sales of industrial chemicals 70.0 Mitsui Bussan Plastics Co., Ltd. Japan Wholesale of plastic raw materials and products 100.0 Nippon Trading Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of plastics and chemicals 62.9 63.4 SALT ASIA HOLDINGS PTY. LTD Australia Holdings company of Onslow Salt Pty. Ltd. 94.2 Mitsui Electronics Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Electronics manufacturing service for liquid crystal parts 100.0 56 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Energy Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited Australia Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 100.0 Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. Australia Sales of crude oil and condensate, development of Casino gas field in Australia 100.0 Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. Netherlands Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in Oman 80.3 100.0 Wandoo Petroleum Pty Ltd Australia Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 71.7 100.0 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. Japan Exploration, development and sales of crude oil and natural gas 50.7 50.3 Mitsui Gas Development Qatar B.V. Netherlands Development and production of natural gas and condensate 100.0 Mitsui LNG Nederland B.V. Netherlands Investments in Qatar LNG project 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (E&P) B.V. Netherlands Exploration, production and investments in oil and natural gas 100.0 MitEnergy Upstream LLC United States Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 85.2 100.0 Mitsui E&P (USA) LLC United States Investment in MitEnergy Upstream LLC 100.0 Endeavour Resources Limited United Kingdom Investments in Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. 100.0 Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. 100.0 Mitsui E&P New Zealand Limited New Zealand Exploration, production and investments in oil and natural gas 100.0 Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 89.9 Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of liquefied petroleum gas in Japan 89.9 Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 100.0 Foods & Retail WILSEY FOODS, INC. United States Investments in processed oil food company 90.0 MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. Japan Wholesale of foods and beverages 99.9 Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Japan Manufacture and sales of food products 51.9 87.6 DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. Japan Production, processing and sales of broilers 72.3 Hokushuren Company Limited Japan Wholesale of liquor and foods 72.0 73.7 VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. Japan Procurement and demand chain planning and management of food materials 100.0 MCM FOODS B.V. Netherlands Import and sales of canned food products and groceries 100.0 57 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. Japan Planning and management of production and distribution of apparel 100.0 BUSSAN REAL ESTATE CO., LTD.(4) Japan Real estate sales, leasing and management 100.0 MBK Real Estate Ltd. United States Real estate-related business 100.0 CABLENET SAITAMA CO., LTD. Japan Cable TV business in urban area 50.8 Kids Station Inc. Japan Broadcasting of TV programs for children 67.0 Telepark Corp. Japan Sales and distribution of mobile phones and agency for telecommunication services 50.8 NextCom K.K.(5) Japan Network integration focused on multi-vendor and in-house developed solutions 49.0 Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd.(5) Japan Planning, development, maintenance and operation of computer systems 67.4 TOYO Officemation Inc. Japan Design, operation and maintenance of information systems 100.0 Mitsui Electronics Inc. Japan Investments in semiconductor device sales companies 100.0 Logistics & Financial Markets Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. United Kingdom Trading of energy derivatives 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. United States Trading of precious metals 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong,China Trading of precious metals 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd.(6) Japan Investments in domestic warehousing businesses 99.8 Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. Japan Property and casualty insurance consignment and agency services 100.0 TRI-NET (JAPAN) INC. Japan International integrated transportation services 100.0 Tri-Net Logistics (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore International integrated transportation services 100.0 Americas Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. United States Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Canada Trading 100.0 Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. Brazil Trading 100.0 Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc. United States Investments in iron and steel products-related businesses 100.0 Westport Petroleum, Inc. United States International trading of petroleum products and crude oil 100.0 Mitsui Steel, Inc. United States Wholesale and SCM services for steel products 100.0 Channel Terminal Company LLC United States Investments in tank leasing business 100.0 Portac, Inc. United States Manufacture of lumber and lumber products 100.0 58 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Europe Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC (7) UnitedKingdom Management of business in Europe and Africa 100.0 Mitsui & Co. UK PLC (8) UnitedKingdom Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH Germany Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Benelux S.A./N.V. Belgium Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. France S.A.S. France Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Italia S.p.A. Italy Trading 100.0 Asia Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong,China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (China) Ltd. China Management of business in China 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (China) Trading Ltd. China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. Taiwan Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Korea Ltd. Republic ofKorea Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand Trading 100.0 Mitsiam International Ltd. Thailand Trading 51.2 55.0 Other Overseas Areas Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Australia Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. UnitedArabEmirates Trading 100.0 All Other Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. Japan Financial services 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V.(9) Netherlands Financial services 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd.(10) Singapore Financial services 100.0 (1) MITSUI BUSSAN METALS SALES CO., LTD. merged Mitsui & Co. Metals Ltd. in February 2007. (2) Mitsui & Co. Project Corp. became a parent company holding 100% stakes in Mitsui Bussan Plant & Project Corp., Mitsui & Co. Power Systems Corporation and Mitsui Bussan Transportation System Co., Ltd. through an exchange of shares with Mitsui in May 2006. Furthermore, Mitsui & Co. Project Corp. was merged with those three companies and the merging company Mitsui Bussan Transportation System Co., Ltd. changed its name to Mitsui & Co. Plant Systems, Ltd in April 2007. (3) MITSUI GAS E ENERGIA DO BRASIL LTDA. changed its name from Gas Participacoes Ltda. in October 2006. (4) BUSSAN REAL ESTATE CO., LTD. changed its name from Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. in June 2006. (5) NextCom K.K. merged Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. and changed its name to Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. in April 2007. (6) Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. was established as a parent company holding 100% stakes in Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd., KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD. and TOSHIN SOKO KAISHA, LTD. through a share transfer in May 2006. (7) Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC changed its name to Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC in May 2007. (8) Mitsui & Co. UK PLC changed its name to Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC in May 2007. (9) Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V. changed its name from Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V. in August 2006. (10) Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd. changed its name from Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. in July 2006. 59 Table of Contents D. Property, Plant and Equipment. The following table provides a list of our principal property, plant and equipment as of March 31, 2007. (Sft: Square feet, MT: Metric Ton) Property, Plant and Equipment Description(Holder or Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Size or AnnualProductionCapacity Use of property In Japan: Mitsuibussan Building Tokyo 1,321,572 Sft Office use (Corporate Headquarters) Osaka Mitsuibussan Building Osaka 450,306 Sft Office use Nagoya Mitsuibussan Building Nagoya 152,067 Sft Office use Hibiya Central Building Tokyo 504,419 Sft Office building for lease Bussan Building Annex Tokyo 204,275 Sft Office building for lease Company Housing & Dormitory Chiba 130,010 Sft Employees’ residential facility Human Resource Development Center Shizuoka 83,863 Sft Training facility Land and equipment (Sintsuda Corporation) Yokohama 197,324 Sft Coil center Land and equipment (Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd.) Ishikawa 852,072 Sft Liquefied petroleum gas terminal Land (MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.) Saitama 71,171 Sft Distribution center Land and equipment (DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD.) Aomori 46,102 Sft Broiler processing factory Land and equipment (Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd.) Yamanashi 339,871 Sft Tea leaf processing factory Land (Hokushuren Company Limited) Sapporo 286,751 Sft Distribution center Wakamatsu Building & Shinsuna Bayside Building (Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 172,406 Sft Office building for lease Land (KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD.) Tokyo 649,753 Sft Logistics center Sun East Shinonome Building & Sun East Tatsumi Building (Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 129,221 Sft Office use and office building for lease Tojin Building (TOSHIN SOKO KAISHA, LTD.) Tokyo 26,759 Sft Office use and office building for lease (Sft: Square feet, MT: Metric Ton) Property, Plant and Equipment Description(Holder or Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Size or AnnualProductionCapacity Use of property Overseas: Office space (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 185,324 Sft Office space leased from others Office building (Mitsui & Co. UK PLC) United Kingdom 64,369 Sft Office use Equipment (Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 6,011,000 Mt Mining equipment for coal Equipment (Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 22,539,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 2,788,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Sesa Goa Limited) India 2,840,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Land and plants (P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak) Indonesia 579,397 Sft Ammonia manufacturing plant Land and plants (Novus International, Inc.) United States 658,187 Sft Methionine production facility Office building (MBK Real Estate Europe Limited) United Kingdom 189,663 Sft Office building for lease Senior service apartment (MBK Real Estate, Ltd.) United States 146,628 Sft Leasing asset Chemical tank yard (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 11,495,355 Sft Chemical tank (1) Information on our mining activities related to Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd., Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd., and Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. that are located in Australia and Sesa God Limited that is located in India is shown in “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit” of “B. Business Overview” in this Item and “Mining Activities” below. 60 Table of Contents In addition to the above, our major assets leased to others as of March 31, 2007 were as below: • Clio Marine Inc. (Liberia), Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. (Liberia) and LPG Transport Service Ltd. (Bermuda) own ocean vessels leased to foreign and domestic shipping companies whose combined book value amounting to ¥35 billion; and • Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. (Netherlands) own rolling stock mainly leased to railway companies in the United States and European countries amounting to ¥69 billion as book value. For information on oil and gas producing activities, see “Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. A portion of the land, buildings and equipment owned by us is subject to mortgages or other liens. As of March 31, 2007, the aggregate amount of such mortgages or other liens was ¥57 billion. We know of no material defect in our title to neither of any of the properties nor of any material adverse claim with respect to them, either pending or contemplated. We consider our offices and other facilities to be well maintained and believe that our plant capacity is adequate for our current requirements. For the information on plans to construct, expand or improve facilities, in particular those related to mineral resource projects and oil and gas projects, see relevant descriptions in “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company—Capital Expenditures,” “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment” and “Energy Segment” of “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Mining Activities” below in this section. We do not believe there are any material environmental issues that would affect the utilization of our assets. Mining Activities Information regarding our mining activities is provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture or Investee(1) Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(2) Location Type of Mineral Resources(3) Fe Basis (%) Means of Access to the Property Title/Lease Type of Mine Power Source Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J(4) Robe Valley, north of the town of Pannawonica Pisolite 57.2 Railway and port (owned by Robe River Iron Associates and operated by Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd.) Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia Open pit Supplied through the integrated Hamersley and Robe power network operated by Pilbara Iron West Angelas(4) Approximately 100km west of the town of Newman Marra Mamba 61.9 Same as above Same as above Open pit Same as above 61 Table of Contents Name of Mines(2) Location Type of Mineral Resources(3) Fe Basis (%) Means of Access to the Property Title/Lease Type of Mine Power Source Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mt. Whaleback Near the town of Newman, 426 km south of Port Headland Brockman Marra Mamba 62.9 62.2 Railway (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) and port in Port Headland (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) Mineral lease granted in 1967 under the Iron Ore (Mount Newman) Agreement Act 1964 scheduled to expire in 2009 with rights for successive renewals for 21 years Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek 92 km north of Newman, 310 km south of Port Headland Channel Iron Deposit 57.5 Rail spur (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) connected to the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mount Newmani Joint Venture) and port in Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) Mining lease granted in 1991 under the Iron Ore (Marillana Creek) Agreement Act 1991 scheduled to expire in 2012 with the right to extend for additional 42 years Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 210 km east of Port Headland Nimingarra 60.2 Railway (owned and operated by Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture) and port in Port Headland (owned and operated by Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Four mineral leases under the Iron Ore (Mount Goldsworthy) Agreement Act 1964 and the Iron Ore (Goldsworthy— Nimingarra) Agreement Act 1972, which have expiry dates between 2007 and 2014 with rights to successive renewals of 21 years. Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap 62 Table of Contents Name of Mines(2) Location Type of Mineral Resources(3) Fe Basis (%) Means of Access to the Property Title/Lease Type of Mine Power Source Area C 120 km northwest of Newman, 37 km southwest of Yandi MarraMamba 62.1 Rail spur (owned by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) connecting to the Yandi spur line (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) and then onto the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) and port in Port Hedland (owned and operated by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Same as above Open pit Sourced from Alinta Dewap Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited(5) (51%) Goa and Karnataka, India Codli Goa, India Fines/Lumps 58.0to62.0 Barge and port in Mormugao Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Sonshi Goa, India Fines/Lumps 58.0to62.0 Barge and port in Mormugao Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Chitradurga Karnataka, India Fines/Lumps 63.5to64.0 Railway, truck and shipping facility at Mormugao and Chennai Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Hospet Karnataka, India Fines/Lumps 63.5to64.0 Railway, truck and shipping facility at Mormugao and Chennai Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state (1) The term “Investee” refers only to Sesa Goa Limited. (2) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (3) “Pisolite”, “Marra Mamba”, “Brockman”, “Channel Iron Deposit” and “Nimingarra” refer to the types of iron ore that are found in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. (4) The percentage figures of “Fe Basis” of Mesa J and West Angelas represent the figures corresponding to mines, excluding the figures corresponding to stockpile components. (5) We sold our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited in April 2007. 63 Table of Contents COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest(2) Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(3) Location Type ofResources Means of Access to the Property Title/Lease Type of Mine Power Source BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) (20%) Queensland, Australia South Walker Creek In the Bowen Basin, 100 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgical coal andthermal coal Railway (Queensland Rail) and port in Mackay Leases granted by State and renewable subject to State’s discretion Open pit State ownedgrid Poitrel Same as above Same asabove Same as above Same as above Same asabove Same asabove Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla 4 km west of Muswellbrook in the Upper Hunter Valley Thermal coal Railway and port at Newcastle Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel In the Bowen Basin, 200 km west of Rockhampton Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State ownedgrid Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) In the Bowen Basin 184 km south-west of Gladstone Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek In the Bowen Basin, 200 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State ownedgrid (1) “BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.” indicates the name of the company established by BHP Billiton plc and Mitsui. (2) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. is our associated company in which Mitsui has 20% interest. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. is our subsidiary which owns interests in Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Dawson Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture. (3) “Name of mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. 64 Table of Contents A brief history and the present condition of each of the above-mentioned mines, including the current state of development, if applicable, are provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J The development of the Robe River project began in 1962(*) near Pannawonica. The Robe River project was commissioned and the first shipment was made in 1972. Iron ore reserves at the Mesa J production Base provide the cornerstone of Pannawonica’s sinter fines and lump output. Development of Mesa J began in 1992, and all mine administration, workshops, warehousing and other support facilities were integrated there in 1994. The mine produces Rove River fines and lump, which are pisolitic iron ore products. Process Plant 1 was commissioned in 1999 and Process Plant 2 in 2001. The plant processes clay-contaminated pisolite, sub-grade material which was once discarded, to reduce contaminants and retain on-specification ore. West Angelas The development of West Angelas began in 1998. Mining of ore commenced in March 2002. The West Angelas deposits contain Marra Mamba type iron ore with higher iron content than Robe River’s Mesa J mine. The West Angelas operation is comprised of an open pit mine, a crushing and screening ore processing plant producing lump and sinter fines iron ore, as well as stockpiling, reclaiming and train-loading facilities. Further expansion of the West Angelas mine was completed ahead of schedule in October 2005. This US$105 million project took the mine’s production capacity to 25 million tonnes per year. Robe River Iron Associates uses a dedicated rail system, operated by Pilbara Iron, to transport ore from its mines to the company’s deepwater port facilities at Cape Lambert. Also, a US$200 million rail expansion project to duplicate almost 100 kilometers of track and associated interconnection and infrastructure to increase the capacity of the Pilbara Iron main line completed in the first quarter of 2006. In January 2007, a further expansion plan was decided to increase port capacity at Cape Lambert from nameplate capacity of 55 to 80 million tones per year by the end of 2008. Completion of the expansion is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2008 and the total cost of the capital is estimated approximately US$860 million. (*) The Robe River project was originally started by Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company, an iron and steel producer in the United States. Since then, there were major changes in ownership before Rio Tinto took a 53% stake in Robe River Iron Associates in 2000. Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mount Whaleback The joint venture began production in 1969 at the Mount Whaleback ore body. Today, production continues to be sourced from the major Mount Whaleback ore body and is complemented by production from other ore bodies, namely Orebody 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30 and Jimblebar, which we are involved in through the Wheelarra arrangement with BHP Iron Ore (Jimblebar) Pty Ltd, Itochu Minerals & Energy Australia Pty Ltd, and 4 Chinese steel companies. The facilities at Mount Whaleback include primary and secondary crushing plants with a nominal capacity of 35 million tonnes of product per year, a heavy media beneficiation plant with an annual capacity of 8 million tonnes and a train-loading facility. An additional primary and secondary crushing plant is present at Orebody 25 with a nominal capacity of eight million tonnes of product per year. 65 Table of Contents Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek Development of the ore body began in 1991 with a capacity of 10 million tonnes per annum and the project’s first shipment of iron ore was in March 1992. Capacity was progressively expanded between 1994 and 2003 and the current capacity is 42 million tonnes per annum. Two processing plants and a primary crusher and overland conveyor are used to crush and screen the Yandi ore and deliver it to one of two train loading facilities. Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Mount Goldsworthy was commissioned in 1966 in the North Area. The original Goldsworthy mine was closed in 1982 and mining operations ceased at Shay Gap mine in 1993. Since then, mining has continued from the adjacent Nimingarra mine and Yarrie mine, 30 kilometers to the south-east. Two primary crushers exist, one at Yarrie and the other at Nimingarra. The ore is crushed and then railed to Port Hedland. Area C In October 2003, the joint venture opened the new Area C mine located 120 kilometers north-west of Newman, which produces a Marra Mamba ore deposit, which is sold under the trademark MAC. All production from the Mount Goldsworthy North (Yarrie and Nimingarra deposits) is transported on a separate railway to Port Hedland. Ore from Area C is transported via a 39 kilometer new section of railway to the Yandi mine which then connects to the Newman main line to Port Hedland. From there, the venture ships the ore through the Nelson Point and Finucane Island facilities. The ore currently being produced at Area C is from C Deposit, which is an open-pit mine. The ore processing plant at Area C has a nominal capacity of 23 million tonnes of product per year. Development projects at joint ventures with BHP Billiton Ltd. The three joint ventures, namely, Mt. Newman joint venture, Yandi joint venture and Mt. Goldsworthy joint venture have been planning for staged expansions of supply capacity. As a step, in October 2005 they approved an expansion plan to add 20 million tonnes per annum to their capacity, upgrading combined capacity to 129 million tonnes per annum by 2007. The capital expenditure for the expansion work will total A$2.2 billion. Mitsui will bear approximately A$150 million. The expansion has been focusing mainly on Area C mine and encompass expansions of rail systems and the loading port. In addition, in March 2007, the joint ventures approved to increase annual production capacity to 155 million tonnes per annum by 2010. The capital expenditure for the expansion will total approximately A$2.7 billion. The expansion includes development of a new crushing and screening plant, as well as additional stockyard, car dumping and train loading facilities at Mt. Whaleback. Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited(*) (51%) Goa and Karnataka, India Codli Sonshi Sesa Goa Limited commenced operations in 1954 in North Goa, India. Sesa Goa’s main mining operations are at the Codli and Sonshi mines. Goan ore tends to be relatively high in alumina content, and most Goan ore is beneficiated to raise the iron content. We acquired a 51% interest in Sesa Goa in 1996. Chitradurga Hospet The main operation in Karnataka is at Chitradurga mine. A second mine is located at Hospet. These mines are equidistant from the part of Mormugao and Chennai and ore can be shipped from either port. (*) We sold our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited in April 2007. 66 Table of Contents COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia South Walker Creek The joint venture commissioned Riverside in 1983, and its reserves were depleted in March 2005. South Walker Creek became operational in 1998. It produces pulverized coal injection fuel and minor quantities of by- product energy coal. South Walker Creek has a production capacity of four million tonnes per year. Exploration has increased the reserve base in the past year. BHP Mitsui Coal holds undeveloped leases in the Bowen Basin (specifically, the areas of Wards Well, Lancewood and Nebo West). Poitrel The mine was commissioned during the December 2006 quarter. Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla Development consent was granted in 1996 and production commenced in 1999. Coal & Allied, Rio Tinto’s subsidiary in Australia, acquired its interest in Bengalla in 2001. Its coal preparation plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash thermal coal for export. Production in 2006 was 5.5 million tonnes of thermal coal. Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel The Kestrel Coal mine, previously known as Gordonstone Mine commenced operation in 1992. Coal is extracted by underground mining. The mine has two longwall units that are operated alternately to minimize downtime and ensure seamless production and reliability. The Kestrel Preparation Plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash coking coal and high energy thermal coal. Production in 2006 was 3.6 million tonnes saleable high quality coking coal and export thermal coal. Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) Dawson Joint Venture was originally called as Moura Joint Venture. The Moura Mine commenced operation in 1961. Since 1994, all production at Moura has been from its surface operation. Production tonnage has been increasing steadily throughout the years. After a few changes of ownership, Anglo Coal acquired a 51% share in 2002. In September 2003, the adjacent Theodore deposit was developed which further expanded its capacity. Anglo Coal Australia and Mitsui Coal Holdings intend to recapitalize their existing operations at the Moura mine and to establish two additional operations on adjacent tenures. The new and expanded operations will be known as the Dawson Complex. Moura Joint Venture has already changed its name to Dawson Joint Venture. The joint venture’s capital expenditure is estimated in excess of Australian dollar 1 billion and will include a new coal preparation plant, additional mining equipment, a coal conveying system for transporting coal, rail load out facilities and administration buildings. The additional coal will be fully available for the market in late 2007, and, annual production capacity will increase from an existing 7 million tonnes to 12.7 million tonnes of metallurgical and thermal coals. German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek Open pit mining commenced in 1981. Underground mining in the Central Colliery area started in 1984, while underground mining in the Southern Colliery area began in 1988. Grasstree is a new underground mine which commenced production in 2006 and produces hard coking coal for our export markets. In addition, the joint venture has started the development of Lake Lindsay mine, a new open cut mine adjacent to German Creek mine, with estimated ultimate completion during 2008 to increase the aggregate annual production from 6 to 10 million tonnes per annum and to extend the total joint venture’s mine life by about 11 years. 67 Table of Contents Production Tonnage IRON ORE Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. In Thousands of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s SubsidiaryorAssociated Company Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Pannawonica 28,960 9,557 30,129 9,943 31,023 10,238 West Angelas 24,866 8,206 21,149 6,979 19,561 6,455 Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Mt. Whaleback(1) 39,828 2,788 36,021 2,521 34,992 2,449 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Marillana Creek 40,872 2,861 40,335 2,823 40,899 2,863 Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 3,341 234 7,089 496 5,268 369 Area C 24,011 1,681 20,471 1,433 16,845 1,179 Sesa Goa Limited(2) Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa 4,125 2,104 3,998 2,039 2,983 1,521 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka 1,443 736 1,578 805 2,063 1,052 TOTAL 167,446 28,167 160,770 27,039 153,634 26,126 (1) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (2) We sold our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited in April 2007. 68 Table of Contents COAL Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. In Thousands of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia Riverside — — 2,384 477 3,323 665 South Walker Creek 3,049 610 3,273 655 3,658 732 Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New SouthWales,Australia 5,544 554 5,965 596 5,312 531 Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 3,592 718 3,720 744 3,282 656 Dawson Joint Venture (formerly “Moura Joint Venture”) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 6,903 3,382 6,200 3,038 7,023 3,441 German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 4,522 1,357 5,086 1,526 5,782 1,735 TOTAL 23,610 6,621 26,628 7,036 28,380 7,760 Reserve Tonnage IRON ORE Reserves of iron ore classified according to operator are presented in the tables below. Operator: Rio Tinto Ltd.(1)(2) Reserves as disclosed by Rio Tinto Ltd. consist of proved and probable reserves. In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Joint Venture or Investee and Name ofMines Mitsui’s Subsidiary orAssociated Company Location TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Pannawonica(3)(4) 344 114 303 100 172 57 West Angelas(3) 409 135 394 130 418 138 (1) Iron ore reserves are shown as recoverable reserves of saleable product after accounting for all mining and processing losses. Mill recoveries are not available. (2) Reserves of Robe River Iron Associates indicate reserves as of the end of December 2006, 2005 and 2004. (3) Stockpile components of reserves are included. (4) Pannawonica reserves significantly increased for the year ended December 31, 2005, following revision and updating of geological models and mine designs, leading to the inclusion of reserves for the Mesa A deposit. 69 Table of Contents Operator: BHP Billiton Ltd.(1)(2)(3) Reserve amounts of Mt. Newman, Yandi and Mt. Goldsworthy consist of proved and probable reserves. In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended June 30, 2006 2005 2004 Joint Venture or Investee and Name ofMines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Mt. Whaleback(4) 799 56 836 59 955 67 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Marillana Creek 848 59 860 60 901 63 Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 7 0 14 1 13 1 Area C 442 31 474 33 499 35 (1) Mining dilution and mining recovery (in general around 95%) has been taken into account in the estimation of reserves. (2) Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are 100% except for Mt Newman Joint Venture of which metallurgical recovery is 63 to 100%. (3) Reserves provided in the table above indicate reserves as of the end of June 2006, 2005 and 2004. (4) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. Operator: Sesa Goa Ltd.(1)(2) (3) Reserve amounts of Sesa Goa consist of proved and probable recoverable reserves. In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalrecoverableReserve Mitsui’s Share Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa 51 26 57 29 55 28 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka 29 15 28 14 30 15 (1) Iron ore reserves are shown as recoverable reserves before accounting for all mining and processing losses. For the year ended March 31, 2007, average rates of mill recovery for marketable products for Codli and Sonshi, and for Chitradurga and Hospet were 71% and 100%, respectively. (2) Reserves of Sesa Goa Ltd. indicate reserves as of the end of March 2007, 2006 and 2005. (3) We sold our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited in April 2007. 70 Table of Contents COAL In the table below, coal reserves are shown as marketable reserves, which are tonnage after accounting for extraction and processing and preparation losses. In Millions of Tonnes Mitsui’sSubsidiary or AssociatedCompany Year Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Operator Location TotalReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalReserve Mitsui’s Share TotalReserve Mitsui’s Share BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) BHP Billiton Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia Riverside(2) — — — — 3 1 South Walker Creek 34 7 45 9 92 18 Bengalla Joint Venture(3) Rio Tinto Ltd. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New South Wales, Australia 150 15 155 16 161 16 Kestrel Joint Venture(3) Rio Tinto Ltd. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 112 22 116 23 120 24 Dawson Joint Venture(3) (formerly Moura Joint Venture) Anglo American Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 288 141 298 146 208 102 German Creek Joint Venture(3) (including Lake Lindsay Mine) Anglo American Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 168 50 177 53 78 23 TOTAL 752 235 791 247 662 184 (1) Reserves of BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. indicates reserves as of the end of June 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 2007 reserves means reserves as of the end of June 2006. Poitrel mine was commissioned in the December 2006 quarter. In addition to the reserves of South Walker Creek, there were the reserves of Poitrel mine which were estimated as 45 million ton (Mitsui’s share 9 million ton) as of end of June 2006. (2) Reserves from Riverside were depleted in March 2005. (3) Reserves of Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Dawson Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture indicate reserves as of the end of December 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 2007 reserves mean reserves as of the end of December 2006. We hold a 15% profit share in Valepar S.A., which held a 32.5% profit share of the common stock and preferred stock of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”) as of December 31, 2006. Accordingly, 4.9% (32.5% x 15%) of CVRD’s production and reserve amounts are indirectly attributable to us. The following table provides iron ore production and reserve amounts for CVRD, and Mitsui’s share of the production and reserve amounts of CVRD. Production Tonnage (for the year ended December 31) Millions of Tonnes 2006 2005 2004 Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share 264.2 12.9 233.9 11.9 211.3 10.8 Proven and Probable Reserves (as of December 31) Millions of Tonnes 2006 2005 2004 Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share 7,619.3 371.0 7,981.8 407.7 6,869.1 350.3 71 Table of Contents Oil and Gas Producing Activities The following table shows crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas production from our reserves for the three fiscal years indicated: Production Information Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Year EndedMarch 31, Oceania andAsia Middle East Others Oceania Others Oceania andAsia Middle East Others Oceania Others 2007 11 3 1 6 4 25 96 6 3 45 6 156 2006 1 3 — 5 5 14 2 6 — 57 39 104 2005 1 3 — 5 5 14 — 9 — 49 34 92 The following tables show proved reserves and proved developed reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas as of the ending date of three fiscal years indicated: Proved Reserve Information: Proved Reserves Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide As of March 31, Oceania andAsia Middle East Others Oceania Others Oceania andAsia Middle East Others Oceania Others 2007 72 (4) 23 15 37 91 238 344 31 38 740 1,668 2,821 2006 55 23 — 39 104 221 80 40 — 801 1,789 2,710 2005 50 24 — 28 92 194 69 75 — 771 1,393 2,308 Proved Developed Reserves(2) Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide As of March 31, Oceania andAsia Middle East Others Oceania Others Oceania andAsia Middle East Others Oceania Others 2007. 46 (4) 18 11 21 24 120 299 19 24 385 11 738 2006. 7 18 — 13 25 63 56 39 — 263 67 425 2005. 6 24 — 14 18 62 — 75 — 356 82 513 (1) 1 barrel of crude oil = 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas (2) The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves is approximately 34% as of March 31, 2007 and relatively low. The expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves are estimated to be ¥502 billion in total as of March 31, 2007. Undeveloped reserves are largely attributable to an associated company in Russia and an associated company in Australia. 72 Table of Contents Production of crude oil in 2007 and LNG in 2008 are expected, for the associated company in Russia. Production of crude oil and LNG has already commenced at the existing facilities at the Australian company. The drilling of additional development wells will be performed over the project life according to the project drilling program. (3) The proved gas reserves are restricted to those volumes that are related to firm sales commitments. (4) Proved reserves attributable to Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., which became our consolidated subsidiary in the year ended March 31, 2007, are included in the figures as of March 31, 2007. The included figures are proved reserves of 19 million barrels of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids and 265 billion cubic feet of natural gas, as well as proved developed reserves of 18 million barrels of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids and 227 billion cubic feet of natural gas. These figures represent reserves on a 100% basis while our interest in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. was 50.3% as of March 31, 2007. Information on our oil and gas producing activities is shown in the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. And also see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results by Operating Segment—Energy Segment.” Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments We are a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. There are no written comments which have been provided by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic reports under that Act not less than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and which remain unresolved as of the date of the filing of this Form 20-F with the Commission and which we believe are material. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements that appear elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. As used in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, “Mitsui” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Bussan Kabushiki Kaisha), and “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to indicate Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. In the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the “Company” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd., and the “companies” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Note” throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects relate to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. Throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, we describe the domicile of our subsidiaries and associated companies in parentheses following names of those companies. For example, Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. (Australia) means that the company’s name is Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. and that it is domiciled in Australia. Operations of a subsidiary that either have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale have been accounted for as discontinued operations under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). This means that income statement and cash flow information are reclassified for all years to separate the discontinued operations from our continuing operations. This presentation is required by U.S. GAAP and facilitates historical and future trend analysis of our continuing operations. 73 Table of Contents Key Performance Measures under Management’s Discussion Although our operating results and financial condition are influenced by various factors, management believes that as of the end of the fiscal year under review the following indicators can be usefully employed to discuss trends in our performance and financial condition. Gross profit, operating income* and equity in earnings of associated companies We undertake worldwide business activities, involving diversified risk-return profiles, ranging from intermediary services as agent to development and production activities of mineral resources and energy. In this context, changes in the amounts of gross profit, operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies by operating segment reflect the overall progress of our business, and greatly affect the amount of net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income. For further information, refer to the table of “Operating Segment Information” and subsequent discussions in “Operating Results by Operating Segment” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. Trends in the price of and supply-demand for mineral resources and energy In recent years, we have observed a rapid growth in operating results from our mineral resources and energy producing activities and the significance of these operations in our overall operating results has considerably intensified. These results have been brought by rising prices as well as increased production in these operations, reflecting globally tightened supply-demand balance and increased price of mineral resources and energy that have been driven by expanding demand from emerging countries, particularly China. Furthermore, management recognize that for some time to come such global supply-demand balance and price fluctuations of mineral resources and energy will continuously have material impact, positive or negative, on our operating results, financial condition and business. For further information regarding trends and prospects in this field, refer to the sections relating to the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and the Energy Segment in “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Investment plans and financial leverage According to our Medium-term Management Outlook announced in May 2006, we intended to invest a total of ¥800 billion during the two fiscal years ending March 2007 and 2008, in order to build strategic business portfolios in the four business areas of Mineral Resources and Energy Area; Global Marketing Networks Area, including steel products and chemicals; Infrastructure Area, including power generation; and Consumer Services Area, including outsourcing services and content businesses. As of the date of this annual report, we have observed a more rapid progress on investment plans than we had expected, and concurrently we have proactively implemented the divestiture of existing securities and fixed assets for portfolio restructuring. Mitsui is monitoring and managing group-wide financial leverage with a view of securing an efficient return on equity as well as maintaining and improving credit ratings and financial soundness in order to secure the capital resources required for these investments and to refinance our interest bearing debt. For further discussion on these investments and related financial policies, refer to “B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. * Operating Income Operating income is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income is comprised of our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses and (c) provision for doubtful receivables, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. 74 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary of Operations for the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Principal developments in the economic environment that influenced our results of operations during the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 included the following: Operating Environment for the Year Ended March 31, 2007 • During the year ended March 31, 2007, the global economy overall continued its steady expansion. In the United States, corporate profits remained robust and consumer spending continued to increase due to favorable employment and wage conditions, and despite an easing in housing investment, which had been overheating, the economy performed steadily overall. In Asia, sustained high growth in China has continued driven by further increases in capital investments and exports to other regions. In Europe, the economy demonstrated a clear recovery trend, as illustrated by the growth of exports in Germany and other factors. • This broad-based expansion of the global economy underpinned strong international commodities markets. Prices of crude oil, mineral resources, non-ferrous metals and other commodities reached record-high levels in the summer, and despite falling thereafter, remain at high levels. • The global trend towards steadily higher interest rates continued. In the United States, the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”), which had continued to raise interest rates progressively since June 2004, kept the rate constant since June 2006. In Europe, the European Central Bank continued to raise interest rates since 2005. • The Japanese economy continued its solid recovery. Exports continued to increase, bolstered by global economic expansion and the weakening yen. Strong corporate sector results led to high growth in capital investment, while improvements in employment and wages led to firmer consumer spending. The Bank of Japan decided to terminate its zero interest rate policy in July 2006, and raised the policy interest rate in February 2007, based on the robust recovery of the economy and consumer prices turning positive. In foreign exchange rates, the yen continued to weaken, particularly against the Euro, against which the yen recorded its lowest ever level since the introduction of the Euro in 1999. Operating Environment for the Year Ended March 31, 2006 • The global economy continued its steady expansion driven by the growth in the United States, as well as emerging countries, particularly China. The expansion again brought higher consumption, housing investment and capital investment. Emerging countries especially continued strong economic growth led by increasing personal consumption from a growing middle-income class and by robust infrastructure demand. • These factors contributed to a substantial increase in global trade and spurred the rising trend in commodity prices such as crude oil, iron ore, coal and non-ferrous metals. • The Japanese economy entered a period of self-sustaining growth. Capital investment increased reflecting expansion of corporate earnings while improved employment and wages supported a favorable trend in personal consumption. In addition, export volume increased supported by an expansion of the global economy and the weak yen. • In the United States, the FRB continued its policy of raising interest rates, which resulted in a gradual rise in interest rates worldwide. In March 2006, the Bank of Japan terminated its quantitative easing policy, which it had followed for the prior five years. 75 Table of Contents Overview of the Financial Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2007 • Operating results — For the year ended March 31, 2007, we recorded consolidated net income of ¥301.5 billion, an increase of ¥99.1 billion, or 49.0%, from ¥202.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Most operating segments except for the Foods & Retail Segment recorded improved operating results, benefiting from a favorable economic environment. — Gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies increased by ¥85.4 billion, or 10.4%; and ¥58.8 billion, or 62.4%, respectively, reflecting favorable commodity prices including mineral resources and energy. On the other hand, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets. In addition, interest expenses increased from increasing interest bearing debt mainly associated with the investment in the Sakhalin II project as well as a rising U.S. dollar interest rate. • Financial condition Total assets as of March 31, 2007 increased to ¥9.8 trillion, an increase of ¥1.2 trillion over March 31, 2006 due mainly to investments in energy, mineral resources and infrastructure businesses as well as an increase in trade receivables. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2007 was ¥2.1 trillion as a result of increased retained earnings. • Cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥239.3 billion, an increase of ¥92.9 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006 reflecting the steady growth of the operating income. Net cash used in investing activities was ¥418.0 billion, attributable to investments mainly in the energy; machinery and infrastructure projects; and mineral resources businesses. Overview of the Financial Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2006 • Operating results — For the year ended March 31, 2006, we recorded consolidated net income of ¥202.4 billion, an increase of ¥81.3 billion, or 67.1%, from ¥121.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Most operating segments except for the Foods & Retail Segment recorded improved operating results, benefiting from a favorable economic environment. — Gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies increased by ¥110.1 billion, or 15.5%; and ¥30.0 billion, or 46.7%, respectively, reflecting favorable commodity prices including mineral resources and energy. On the other hand, Mitalco Inc. (United States) and MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) recorded significant one-time impairment losses on long-lived assets. In addition, interest expenses increased principally from the investment in the Sakhalin II project. • Financial condition Total assets as of March 31, 2006 reached ¥8.6 trillion mainly due to investments in the energy and mineral resources businesses, the infrastructure businesses and the foods and retail businesses; increases in trade receivables and inventories; and the increases in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities. As a result of a public offering and increased retained earnings, our shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2006 reached ¥1.7 trillion. • Cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥146.4 billion. Net cash used in investing activities was ¥347.3 billion, resulting primarily from investments in energy and mineral resources businesses as well as infrastructure businesses. 76 Table of Contents Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Fluctuation on Operating Results Due to the increase in gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies discussed above, net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 reported by overseas subsidiaries and associated companies reached ¥252.4 billion, significantly higher than ¥174.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The impact of any appreciation of the yen against the currencies used by these companies as functional currency in their reporting—principally U.S. dollars, Australian dollars and Euros—is becoming even more significant. The average U.S. dollar—yen exchange rate during the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥116.96 = U.S.$1, representing yen depreciation of ¥3.03, or 2.7%, compared to the average rate during the year ended March 31, 2006 of ¥113.93 = U.S.$1. As of March 30, 2007, the U.S. dollar—yen exchange rate was ¥118.05 = U.S.$1. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on net income for the year ending March 2008 will largely depend on the net income denominated in local currencies of overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. Based on net income in the business plans of these companies covering the year ending March 2008, we estimate that yen appreciation by ¥1 against U.S.$1 would have the net effect of reducing net income by approximately ¥2.2 billion. Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Revenues In accordance with U.S. GAAP, revenues are reported based on the gross amount billed to a customer or on the net amount retained (that is, the amount billed to a customer less the amount paid to a supplier) in the following manner. • Revenues are reported based on gross amounts for transactions where we have the related risks and rewards of ownership such as transactions mainly where we are a primary obligor in the arrangement and/or assume general inventory risk without any significant mitigation of our risk level. • Revenues are reported based on net amounts where we assume a low degree of related risks and rewards, effectively acting as an agent for the applicable products or services. A typical example of reporting revenues based on net amounts is a transaction where we receive a commission or fee at a fixed rate based on transaction volume or amount. We classified our revenues into sales of products, sales of services and other sales with the corresponding costs of revenues. 77 Table of Contents The table below provides these three categories of revenues by products in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” in Note 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION.” (*) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2007 2006 Change Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Iron and Steel ¥ 552.3 ¥ 71.5 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 624.0 ¥ 454.7 ¥ 68.8 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 523.7 ¥ 97.6 ¥ 2.7 ¥ 0.0 ¥ 100.3 Non-Ferrous Metals 71.2 9.0 19.7 99.9 77.7 9.2 15.3 102.2 (6.5 ) (0.2 ) 4.4 (2.3 ) Machinery 253.1 106.2 71.6 430.9 219.1 97.6 51.3 368.0 34.0 8.6 20.3 62.9 Electronics & Information 77.8 104.9 0.0 182.7 77.5 87.3 0.1 164.9 0.3 17.6 (0.1 ) 17.8 Chemicals 1,038.9 98.4 9.3 1,146.6 785.9 93.3 7.5 886.7 253.0 5.1 1.8 259.9 Energy 1,622.0 7.1 8.5 1,637.6 1,331.8 7.7 21.0 1,360.5 290.2 (0.6 ) (12.5 ) 277.1 Foods 417.2 49.3 0.5 467.0 377.8 47.2 (0.4 ) 424.6 39.4 2.1 0.9 42.4 Textiles 22.9 21.2 1.5 45.6 24.5 16.8 1.1 42.4 (1.6 ) 4.4 0.4 3.2 General Merchandise 55.3 8.1 0.0 63.4 69.8 9.0 0.0 78.8 (14.5 ) (0.9 ) 0.0 (15.4 ) Property and Service Business 63.3 81.7 38.0 183.0 60.9 75.3 27.5 163.7 2.4 6.4 10.5 19.3 Consolidated Total ¥ 4,174.0 ¥ 557.4 ¥ 149.3 ¥ 4,880.7 ¥ 3,479.7 ¥ 512.2 ¥ 123.6 ¥ 4,115.5 ¥ 694.3 ¥ 45.2 ¥ 25.7 ¥ 765.2 Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 Change Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Iron and Steel ¥ 454.7 ¥ 68.8 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 523.7 ¥ 350.7 ¥ 55.7 ¥ 0.3 ¥ 406.7 ¥ 104.0 ¥ 13.1 ¥ (0.1 ) ¥ 117.0 Non-Ferrous Metals 77.7 9.2 15.3 102.2 137.5 8.4 15.9 161.8 (59.8 ) 0.8 (0.6 ) (59.6 ) Machinery 219.1 97.6 51.3 368.0 163.4 63.3 38.2 264.9 55.7 34.3 13.1 103.1 Electronics & Information 77.5 87.3 0.1 164.9 74.9 69.8 0.0 144.7 2.6 17.5 0.1 20.2 Chemicals 785.9 93.3 7.5 886.7 642.7 79.8 6.6 729.1 143.2 13.5 0.9 157.6 Energy 1,331.8 7.7 21.0 1,360.5 1,009.3 14.0 11.8 1,035.1 322.5 (6.3 ) 9.2 325.4 Foods 377.8 47.2 (0.4 ) 424.6 423.7 50.1 (0.2 ) 473.6 (45.9 ) (2.9 ) (0.2 ) (49.0 ) Textiles 24.5 16.8 1.1 42.4 22.1 19.8 1.1 43.0 2.4 (3.0 ) 0.0 (0.6 ) General Merchandise 69.8 9.0 0.0 78.8 86.0 10.2 (0.1 ) 96.1 (16.2 ) (1.2 ) 0.1 (17.3 ) Property and Service Business 60.9 75.3 27.5 163.7 53.7 63.0 22.9 139.6 7.2 12.3 4.6 24.1 Consolidated Total ¥ 3,479.7 ¥ 512.2 ¥ 123.6 ¥ 4,115.5 ¥ 2,964.0 ¥ 434.1 ¥ 96.5 ¥ 3,494.6 ¥ 515.7 ¥ 78.1 ¥ 27.1 ¥ 620.9 Sales of Products Sales of products include the following four types of transactions: • the sale of products as a principal in the transactions, such as crude oil and petroleum products; petrochemical products as well as steel products; • the sale of manufacturer products at our manufacturing subsidiaries such as feed additive by Novus International, Inc. (United States) and tea leaves by Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan); • the sale of natural resources from iron ore and coal mining activities and oil and gas producing activities; and • the development and sale of real estate. (*) Revenues reported in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” are classified by similarity of products as required by U.S. GAAP, and are not intended to represent classification by operating segment. As an example, revenues of “Chemicals” in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” include not only those reported in the Chemical Segment but also those reported in other operating segments such as the Americas Segment for sales of chemical-related products or services. To differentiate between classification by product and classification by operating segment, classification by product is italicized in this “Revenues” and “Gross profit classified by category of revenues” in the next “Gross Profit.” 78 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, revenues from the sales of products were ¥4,174.0 billion, an increase of ¥694.3 billion, or 20.0%, from ¥3,479.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors by product were as follows: • Revenues from Energy were ¥1,622.0 billion, an increase of ¥290.2 billion from ¥1,331.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Crude oil and petroleum products sales in international markets and domestic petroleum products and liquefied petroleum gas sales comprised the major part of the revenues from Energy. Crude oil and petroleum products sales increased by ¥98.6 billion and ¥53.7 billion at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong. Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) and Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States), respectively. Domestic petroleum products and liquefied petroleum gas sales also increased by a combined sum of ¥109.4 billion at Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan). • Revenues from Chemicals were ¥1,038.9 billion, an increase of ¥253.0 billion from ¥785.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, primarily reflecting increases in Mitsui’s sales of basic petrochemicals and synthetic fiber intermediates due to higher prices for these petrochemical products reflecting higher crude oil prices. • Revenues from Iron and Steel were ¥552.3 billion, an increase of ¥97.6 billion from ¥454.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Revenues increased at Mitsui and Mitsui Steel Holdings Inc. (United States) reflecting favorable steel products market circumstances. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) recorded higher revenues reflecting the rise in iron ore prices. Regarding price trends of iron ore and coal for the year ended March 31, 2007, please refer to the discussion under “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, revenues from the sales of products were ¥3,479.7 billion, an increase of ¥515.7 billion, or 17.4%, from ¥2,964.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors by product were as follows: • Revenues from Energy were ¥1,331.8 billion, an increase of ¥322.5 billion from ¥1,009.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Revenues from sales of petroleum products increased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) by ¥137.9 billion. Revenues from domestic sale of petroleum products also increased at Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) by a combined sum of ¥79.6 billion. • Revenues from Chemicals were ¥785.9 billion, an increase of ¥143.2 billion from ¥642.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The principal reasons include increases in Mitsui’s sales of synthetic fiber intermediates, methanol, ammonia and basic petrochemicals. • Revenues from Iron and Steel were ¥454.7 billion, an increase of ¥104.0 billion from ¥350.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) recorded an increase of ¥27.6 billion and ¥10.0 billion, respectively, due to the rise in iron ore prices. Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States) recorded an increase of ¥14.5 billion, reflecting a favorable steel tubular products market. Sales of Services Sales of services include the revenues from trading margins (for our intermediary service) and commissions. For example: • As the most typical case of our services, for back-to-back sales and purchase transactions of products, we record the net amount of sale and purchase prices (namely, trading margin for our intermediary service) as revenues. 79 Table of Contents • We provide various services of logistics and warehouse services, information and communication services and technical support. We also facilitate arrangement of the contracts between manufacturers and customers and deliveries of the products between suppliers and customers. In these cases, the billed amounts for these services are recognized as revenues. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, revenues from the sales of services were ¥557.4 billion, an increase of ¥45.2 billion from ¥512.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Electronics & Information increased by ¥17.6 billion to ¥104.9 billion from ¥87.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Machinery increased by ¥8.6 billion to ¥106.2 billion from ¥97.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, revenues from the sales of services were ¥512.2 billion, an increase of ¥78.1 billion from ¥434.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors were as below: • Revenues from Iron and Steel and Chemicals increased by ¥13.1 billion and ¥13.5 billion, respectively. Favorable market conditions and increases in transaction volume resulted in the overall increase both at Mitsui and subsidiaries. • Revenues from Machinery increased by ¥34.3 billion, primarily attributable to the increases at overseas automobile-related subsidiaries through their logistics and distributorship services. • Revenues from Electronics & Information increased by ¥17.5 billion, attributable to the increases in the sales of information and communication services at NextCom K.K. (Japan) and Telepark Corp. (Japan). Other Sales Other sales principally include the revenues from derivative commodity instruments and derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes, the revenues from leasing activities of real estate, rolling stock, ocean transport vessels, aircraft and machinery equipment and the revenues from external consumer financing. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, revenues from other sales were ¥149.3 billion, an increase of ¥25.7 billion from ¥123.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, which was primarily attributable to the following factors: • Leasing revenues were ¥85.0 billion, an increase of ¥19.7 billion from ¥65.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, which was attributable to the expanded rolling stock leasing businesses at Mitsui Rail Capital Participacoes Ltda. (Brazil) and Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. (United States) as well as the acquisition of Dispolok GmbH (Germany) and increases in the real estate leasing businesses in Japan and abroad. • Derivative trading revenues were ¥33.1 billion, a decrease of ¥6.6 billion from ¥39.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The principal reason for this decrease was naphtha trading losses at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) for the year ended March 31, 2007. • P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) increased its revenue from other sales by ¥8.3 billion over the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting its expansion of motorcycle retail finance in Indonesia. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, revenues from other sales were ¥123.6 billion, an increase of ¥27.1 billion from ¥96.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, which was primarily attributable to the following factors: • Leasing revenues were ¥65.3 billion, an increase of ¥9.9 billion from the ¥55.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 due to the contribution of KYOGI WAREHOUSE CO., LTD. (Japan) which was acquired during the year ended March 31, 2006 and Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. (United States), a leasing company of rolling stock. 80 Table of Contents • Derivative trading revenues were ¥39.7 billion, an increase of ¥7.7 billion from the ¥32.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting strong energy derivatives trading at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong, China). • P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) increased its revenue from other sales by ¥4.0 billion over the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting its strong business performance in the motorcycle retail finance in Indonesia. Gross Profit Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change between2007 and 2006 Change between 2006 and 2005 2007 2006 2005 GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio Gross Profit from Sales of Products ¥ 430.8 10.3 % ¥ 370.1 10.6 % ¥ 293.3 9.9 % ¥ 60.7 (0.3 )% ¥ 76.8 0.7 % Gross Profit from Sales of Services 398.3 71.5 % 381.8 74.5 % 365.3 84.2 % 16.5 (3.0 )% 16.5 (9.7 )% Gross Profit from Other Sales 74.6 50.0 % 66.4 53.7 % 49.6 51.4 % 8.2 (3.7 )% 16.8 2.3 % Total ¥ 903.7 18.5 % ¥ 818.3 19.9 % ¥ 708.2 20.3 % ¥ 85.4 (1.4 )% ¥ 110.1 (0.4 )% Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit was ¥903.7 billion, an increase of ¥85.4 billion, or 10.4%, from ¥818.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The Gross Profit ratio (“GP ratio”), or ratio of gross profit divided by revenues, for the year ended March 31, 2007 was 18.5%, a decrease of 1.4 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2006. Changes in gross profit and GP ratio classified by category of revenues are set forth below: For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit from sales of products was ¥430.8 billion, an increase of ¥60.7 billion from ¥370.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major factors in this category are as follows: • Gross profit from Energy was ¥133.0 billion, an increase of ¥43.0 billion from ¥90.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. As a result of acquisition of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan), a former associated company, in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year under review, it newly reported a ¥15.0 billion gross profit and Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia) also reported gross profit of ¥13.9 billion following the start up of commercial production at the Enfield oil project. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), which is engaged in production of crude oil in Oman, recorded an increase reflecting higher oil prices. Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) recorded a ¥4.9 billion increase in gross profit from sales of petroleum products. • Gross profit from Iron and Steel was ¥125.1 billion, an increase of ¥11.1 billion from ¥114.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) recorded increases in gross profit by ¥13.6 billion, ¥3.6 billion and ¥3.4 billion, respectively, due to rising iron ore prices. However, Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded a ¥10.7 billion decrease reflecting a decline in coal prices. The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2007 was 10.3%, a decline of 0.3 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting relatively lower growth of gross profit (16.4% increase) than that of revenues (20.0% increase). A major part of the growth in revenues was comprised of sales of products in Energy and Chemicals, typically seen as petroleum products at Westport Petroleum, Inc. and petrochemical products at Mitsui, where higher revenues do not necessarily result in increases in gross profit. 81 Table of Contents For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit from sales of services was ¥398.3 billion, an increase of ¥16.5 billion from ¥381.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. A ¥6.7 billion increase was seen primarily in Chemicals. Increased revenues from sales of services of Electronics & Information were largely offset by increases in the related costs of those revenues. The typical case was TOYO Officemation, Inc., which provides services of design, operation and maintenance of information systems. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2007 was 71.5%, a decrease of 3.0 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2006. This percentage decrease was mainly because operations such as logistics services and information system services, which reported the gross billed amounts as revenues, and therefore, their GP ratios were less than 100% (because of the accompanying cost of revenues), recorded relatively higher increases in revenues, compared to operations such as intermediary services where the net amount of sales and purchase prices in back-to-back transactions were reported as revenues with GP ratios of 100%. For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit from other sales was ¥74.6 billion, an increase of ¥8.2 billion from the ¥66.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major reasons were the same as described in “Revenues—Other Sales” above. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit from sales of products was ¥370.1 billion, an increase of ¥76.8 billion from ¥293.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors in this category are as follows: • Gross profit from Energy was ¥90.0 billion, an increase of ¥38.0 billion from the ¥52.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded increases reflecting higher oil prices. Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) also recorded an increase. • Gross profit from Iron and Steel was ¥114.0 billion, an increase of ¥35.5 billion from the ¥78.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded increases in gross profit due to rising iron ore and coal prices. The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2006 was 10.6%, an improvement of 0.7 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. This 0.7 percentage point improvement was because the growth in revenues at our mineral resources and energy development and production subsidiaries reflecting the surge in sales prices outpaced the increase in their costs of revenues. For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit from sales of services was ¥381.8 billion, an increase of ¥16.5 billion from ¥365.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors in this category classified by product were as follows: • Gross profit from Iron and Steel and Chemicals increased by ¥13.0 billion and ¥9.7 billion, respectively, reflecting increases in revenues from sales of services. • Increases in revenues from sales of services of Machinery and Electronics & Information were largely offset by increases in the related costs of those revenues. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2006 was 74.5%, a decrease of 9.7 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2005. As with the trend seen in the comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, logistics services and information system services recorded relatively higher increases in revenues, compared to operations such as intermediary services. 82 Table of Contents For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit from other sales was ¥66.4 billion, an increase of ¥16.8 billion from ¥49.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major reasons were the same as described in “Revenues—Other Sales” above. Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment For detailed discussion, see “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” A summary of the increase in gross profit classified by operating segment is provided as below. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, all the operating segments except for All Other recorded increases in gross profit. • The Energy Segment and the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment recorded ¥27.8 billion and ¥11.5 billion increases, respectively. The Energy Segment’s increase was primarily attributable to the expanded contribution from oil and gas producing activities, namely Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia) due to the start-up of commercial production at the Enfield oil project; and Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) as a result of its acquisition. Furthermore, Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reported increases reflecting higher prices of crude oil and iron ore, respectively. • The Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment recorded an increase, primarily reflecting expansion of operations of overseas automotive-related subsidiaries. Business transactions at the Iron & Steel Products Segment and the Chemical Segment continued to show good performance in general. • The Logistics & Financial Markets Segment and the Americas Segment recorded strong results in trading operations in various commodities such as petroleum products trading at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States). • In the Foods & Retail Segment and the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment, performance varied by products and services. Domestic apparel businesses and Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. showed disappointing performance, while real estate businesses performed strongly especially overseas. 83 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Major factors for a ¥110.1 billion increase in gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 are discussed below: • The Iron & Steel Raw Materials & Non-Ferrous Metals Segment reported a significant increase of ¥36.6 billion from the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) recorded increases, reflecting a 71.5% iron ore price increase on a pure ore content basis. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) also recorded a significant increase, reflecting price increases in representative Australian metallurgical coal, which rose by approximately 120%. • In the Chemical Segment, overall market prices of petrochemical products stayed high, reflecting the high crude oil prices, and Mitsui’s petrochemicals trading continuously benefited from favorable market conditions following the previous year. Due to higher ammonia prices, PT Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia) reported an increase in gross profit. • The Energy Segment reported an increase, as oil and gas producing subsidiaries including Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) benefited from higher crude oil prices. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Classified by Category of Expenses Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥581.5 billion, an increase of ¥31.4 billion, or 5.7%, from ¥550.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The table below provides breakdown of selling, general and administrative expenses used for our internal review showing the change from 2006 to 2007. Billions of Yen Years ended March 31, 2007 2006 Change Personnel ¥ 287.5 ¥ 275.8 ¥ 11.7 Welfare 10.5 9.6 0.9 Travel 32.3 28.8 3.5 Entertainment 10.5 9.9 0.6 Communication 44.2 42.2 2.0 Others 196.5 183.8 12.7 Total ¥ 581.5 ¥ 550.1 ¥ 31.4 • Personnel expenses were ¥287.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, an increase of ¥11.7 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, primarily reflecting expanded operations of subsidiaries. Those operations include the automotive related businesses such as P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) and construction machinery related businesses such as Road Machinery, LLC (United States) in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and the domestic information and telecommunication businesses such as TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan) and Telepark Corp. (Japan) in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment. Also, performance linked bonuses to traders increased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States). • Other remaining items in selling, general and administrative expenses increased showing similar patterns as personnel expenses. 84 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2006 were ¥550.1 billion, an increase of ¥41.0 billion, or 8.1%, from ¥509.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. • Personnel expenses were ¥275.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, an increase of ¥25.1 billion from ¥250.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) and Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) reported increases of ¥3.6 billion and ¥3.0 billion, respectively, because of increases in performance linked bonuses to traders. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) recorded an increase of ¥1.9 billion in connection with the establishment of new distribution bases. There were also increases from newly acquired domestic subsidiaries such as NextCom K.K. (Japan). Mitsui reported an increase of ¥4.5 billion principally due to increases in bonuses to employees. • Communication and information expenses were ¥42.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, an increase of ¥4.1 billion from ¥38.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This increase resulted from the introduction of a new enterprise resource planning system in November 2004. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Classified by Operating Segment The table below provides selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 by operating segment. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 33.1 ¥ 30.4 ¥ 29.0 ¥ 2.7 ¥ 1.4 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 23.7 25.0 23.1 (1.3 ) 1.9 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 79.9 66.9 59.3 13.0 7.6 Chemical 65.3 64.8 61.7 0.5 3.1 Energy 34.4 34.3 36.9 0.1 (2.6 ) Foods & Retail 69.6 70.1 66.7 (0.5 ) 3.4 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 109.4 102.7 99.2 6.7 3.5 Logistics & Financial Markets 35.9 33.3 26.3 2.6 7.0 Americas 43.2 40.6 34.5 2.6 6.1 Europe 20.1 18.2 18.0 1.9 0.2 Asia 18.2 15.1 13.6 3.1 1.5 Other Overseas Areas 5.4 4.1 3.6 1.3 0.5 Total 538.2 505.5 471.9 32.7 33.6 All Other 8.5 11.0 15.5 (2.5 ) (4.5 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 34.8 33.6 21.7 1.2 11.9 Consolidated Total ¥ 581.5 ¥ 550.1 ¥ 509.1 ¥ 31.4 ¥ 41.0 Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2007 increased in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment by ¥13.0 billion and ¥6.7 billion, respectively. On the other hand, the Energy Segment and the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment which reported major increases in gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded a ¥0.1 billion increase and a ¥1.3 billion decrease, respectively. 85 Table of Contents In regards to the Energy Segment and the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, major portion of gross profit is generated through oil and gas producing or mining activities where selling, general and administrative expenses have quite marginal significance compared to revenues and cost of revenues. Accordingly there is a little correlation between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses at these two operating segments. The Energy Segment and the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment have relatively small number of employees compared to other operating segments as seen in “Item 6.D. Employees.” Personnel expenses have had around 50% of total selling, general and administrative expenses. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 By operating segment, major increases between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 were: • a ¥7.6 billion increase in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment mainly attributable to the acquisition of NextCom K.K.; and • a ¥7.0 billion and a ¥6.1 billion increase in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment and the Americas Segment, mainly attributable to the performance linked bonuses at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) and Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States). Provision for Doubtful Receivables Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥13.3 billion, an increase of ¥13.3 billion, from less than ¥0.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors were a new provision for an overseas oil exploration company; an increase in the provision for motorcycle retail finance at P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) reflecting its expanding operations; and an increase in the provision at Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e comercio (Brazil). A less than ¥0.1 billion provision for the year ended March 31, 2006 was partly attributable to the collection of debts which had been written off as uncollectible in the past. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2006 was minimal, less than ¥0.1 billion, an improvement from ¥8.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major provisions for doubtful receivables in the year ended March 31, 2005 included a provision for a machinery-related domestic customer. Interest Income and Interest Expense Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥50.7 billion, an increase of ¥12.4 billion, or 32.4%, from ¥38.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Interest expense was ¥92.5 billion, an increase of ¥33.1 billion, or 55.7%, from ¥59.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income, was ¥41.8 billion, an increase of ¥20.7 billion, or 98.1%, from ¥21.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. A breakdown of the principal changes for the year ended March 31, 2007 is as follows: • Interest expense incurred for the Sakhalin II project increased by ¥9.0 billion due to increased interest bearing debt to fund the investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and higher U.S. dollar interest rates. • Other than the Sakhalin II project related interest expense, Mitsui recorded an increase of ¥3.5 billion in interest expense, reflecting increases in interest bearing debt associated with various investments. • Reflecting higher U.S. dollar interest rates, interest expense at overseas subsidiaries increased by ¥8.3 billion. Especially, the Americas Segment recorded a ¥4.8 billion increase, which was mainly attributable to Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States). 86 Table of Contents • In general, interest income tends to show the similar patterns of fluctuations as interest expense. We provide loans and deferred payment facility, which generate interest income, by funding our borrowings from financial institutions. Usually, both interest expense and interest income have same interest rate type, floating or fixed. Accordingly, most of fluctuations in interest income are offset by corresponding fluctuations in interest expense. Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2007 regarding Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, the major currencies in which we have borrowings, were as follows: • The Bank of Japan decided to terminate its zero interest rate policy in July 2006, and raised the policy interest rate in February 2007. Reflecting this policy change, the average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) for the year ended March 31, 2007 rose to 0.45% from 0.07% for the year ended March 31, 2006. The average yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.75% for the year ended March 31, 2007, up from 1.44% during the year ended March 31, 2006. • The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2007 was 5.35%, up from the average of 4.12% during the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting the FRB’s policy of raising the Federal Funds target rate from 4.75% as of March 2006 to 5.25% as of June 2006 and keeping the rate level thereafter. Regarding development of our investment plans and financial policies, refer to “B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥38.3 billion, an increase of ¥2.8 billion, or 7.9%, from ¥35.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Interest expense was ¥59.4 billion, an increase of ¥16.3 billion, or 37.8%, from ¥43.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income was ¥21.1 billion, an increase of ¥13.5 billion, or 177.6%, from ¥7.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. • At Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. (Netherlands), interest expense increased by ¥6.7 billion due to an increase in interest bearing debt which was used to fund increasing investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and an increase in U.S. dollar interest rates. • Mitsui recorded an increase of ¥3.0 billion in interest expense, reflecting increases in interest bearing debt associated with increases in investments. • Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. (United States) recorded an increase of ¥1.9 billion in interest expense, reflecting an increase in U.S. dollar interest rates. Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2006 regarding Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar were as follows: • The average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month LIBOR remained 0.07%, roughly unchanged from the 0.05% during the year ended March 31, 2005, as the Bank of Japan maintained its very low interest rate policy. The average yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.44% for the year ended March 31, 2006, slightly declining from 1.52% during the year ended March 31, 2005. • The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2006 was 4.12%, up from the average of 2.13% during the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the FRB’s policy of gradually raising the Federal Funds target rate to 4.75% in the period from June 2004 to March 2006. 87 Table of Contents Dividend Income Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥50.1 billion, an increase of ¥19.4 billion, or 63.2%, from ¥30.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Dividends from LNG projects in the Middle East, namely Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman, totaled ¥26.6 billion, a significant increase of ¥13.2 billion, from ¥13.4 billion the year ended March 31, 2006. The rest of the increase in dividend income was mostly comprised of increases in dividends from domestic listed companies. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥30.7 billion, an increase of ¥6.1 billion, or 24.8%, from ¥24.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Total dividends from the three LNG projects in the Middle East were ¥13.4 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.6 billion from ¥12.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Gains on Sales of Securities—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The net realized gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥58.8 billion, an increase of ¥21.0 billion, or 55.6% from ¥37.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui enhanced scrutiny on the assets held by operating segments to optimize its business portfolio, and consequently we recorded gains on the sales of shares in listed companies including a ¥15.6 billion gain from Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan) shares. Mitsui also record a ¥4.5 billion gain on sale of shares in Telepark Corp. (Japan), a subsidiary engaged in sales of mobile devices and telecommunication lines. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment recorded gain on sale of shares in telecommunication related companies, namely, a ¥5.5 billion gain (jointly with the Americas Segment) on the sales of shares in Metro PCS in the United States, a ¥3.3 billion gain from the exchange of shares in POWEREDCOM, Inc. for KDDI CORPORATION in Japan and a ¥2.0 billion gain on the sales of shares in P.T. Excelcomindo Pratama, Tbk. in Indonesia. The Foods & Retail Segment recorded a ¥4.2 billion gain from the exchange of shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd, one of Japan’s leading diversified retailers. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 The net realized gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥37.8 billion, an increase of ¥3.0 billion, or 8.6% from ¥34.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The breakdown of major transactions related to net gains on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2006 is discussed above and a breakdown for the year ended March 31, 2005 is provide below: • In the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment, we reported a ¥7.2 billion gain on the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K., a Japanese cell-phone carrier, in response to a tender offer; and a ¥4.1 billion gain in Telepark Corp. (Japan), following its initial public offering on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Also in December 2004, in connection with the merger of a former associated company NextCom K.K. (Japan), a software development and marketing subsidiary BSI Co., Ltd., and a data telecommunications equipment marketing subsidiary ADAM NET Ltd., Mitsui was allotted shares in NextCom K.K. in exchange for shares in two subsidiaries and recorded a ¥3.7 billion gain from the exchange of shares of those two subsidiaries. • In the Chemical Segment and the Other Overseas Areas Segment, we sold shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited (Thailand), a manufacturer of high density polyethylene, and recorded a gain of ¥3.9 billion. 88 Table of Contents Gain on Issuance of Stock by a Subsidiary As mentioned above in gains on sales of securities—net, Telepark Corp. (Japan) registered and issued 8,000 shares of common stock in an initial public offering in April 2004. As a result, our ownership interest in Telepark Corp. decreased and Mitsui recognized a ¥1.7 billion gain on issuance of stock by a subsidiary for the year ended March 31, 2005. See Note 19, “ISSUANCE OF STOCK BY SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES.” Loss on Write-Down of Securities Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The loss on write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥11.7 billion, an increase of ¥1.1 billion, or 10.4%, from ¥10.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2006, the Japanese stock markets saw an upturn following the recovery of the Japanese economy and expanding corporate earnings with the Nikkei Stock Average at ¥17,059.66 as of March 31, 2006, compared to ¥11,668.95 as of March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2007 the Nikkei Stock Average recorded the low of ¥14,218.60 in June 2006, reflecting appreciation of the yen and a correction phase of global stock markets. However, such pessimistic sentiment faded and the Nikkei Stock Average recovered to ¥17, 287.65 as of March 31, 2007. Reflecting these developments in the stock market, the write-down of marketable securities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.1 billion, a slight increase over ¥1.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. With respect to non-marketable securities, individual write-down losses were insignificant for the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, the loss on write-down of securities was ¥10.6 billion, a decrease of ¥5.9 billion or 35.8%, from ¥16.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, the Japanese stock markets experienced repeated minor adjustments within a narrow range between a high of ¥12,163.89 and a low of ¥10,505.05 in the Nikkei Stock Average, due to surging crude oil prices, concern over worldwide inflation, appreciation of the yen and a slowdown in the United States economy while underpinned by hopes for recoveries of domestic and overseas economies and an expansion in corporate earnings. The write-down of marketable securities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥1.8 billion, a slight increase over ¥0.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, considering a deterioration in financial condition due to sluggish advertising revenues, we recorded losses on shares of satellite broadcaster BS-i, INCORPORATED (in Japan, not the same company as BSI Co., Ltd., listed under Gains on Sales of Securities—Net) and BS Japan Corporation in Japan of ¥1.9 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. MBK Australia Resorts Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reported a ¥1.7 billion write-down of investment in the Mirage Resorts business in Australia. Gain on Disposal or Sales of Property and Equipment—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥5.6 billion, a decrease of ¥0.4 billion, or 6.7%, from a ¥6.0 billion gain for the year ended March 31, 2006. 89 Table of Contents For the year ended March 31, 2007, major gains on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net resulted from warehouses and land at Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States) and NST, Inc. (United States). For the year ended March 31, 2006, major factors included a ¥5.6 billion gain on the sale of Mitsui’s company-owned welfare facilities and a ¥1.3 billion gain on the sale of its corporate residences and dormitories. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥6.0 billion, a decrease of ¥0.5 billion, or 7.7%, from a ¥6.5 billion gain for the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, there was a ¥3.2 billion gain from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories and a ¥1.8 billion gain from the sale of warehouses for lease by a logistics-related subsidiary, Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States). The above properties sold by Mitsui for the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 had been acquired before the significant land price increases in Japan in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The impairment loss on long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥19.7 billion, a decrease of ¥4.6 billion or 18.9%, from ¥24.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2007, the subsidiaries in the Foods & Retail Segment recorded major impairment losses, namely, a ¥12.1 billion loss on intangible assets at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) due to deterioration of operating environment and a ¥2.2 billion loss at MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) on land and facilities which would be idle as a result of the reorganization of distribution bases. The main elements for the year ended March 31, 2006 were as follows: • MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) recorded a total of ¥6.0 billion impairment loss on land and facilities as a result of reorganization of the distribution bases. • Mitsui and domestic subsidiaries recorded a total of ¥2.8 billion impairment losses on land for development and land for lease. • NST, Inc. (United States) reported a ¥1.6 billion impairment loss on plant facilities. For more information on impairment losses on long-lived assets, see Note 10, “IMPAIRMENT LOSS OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS,” and on our reevaluation and restructuring of subsidiaries, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” As of March 31, 2007, we did not identify any material assets analyzed for impairment for which an impairment charge has not yet been recorded. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 The impairment loss on long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥24.3 billion, an increase of ¥10.2 billion or 72.3%, from ¥14.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2006 are discussed as above and those for the year ended March 31, 2005 were as follows: • We recorded a ¥3.3 billion impairment loss on land for development purposes and a loss of ¥1.3 billion on land for lease, both held in Japan by Mitsui. • Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded a ¥2.3 billion impairment loss mainly on gas stations. 90 Table of Contents Impairment Loss of Goodwill For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported a ¥16.5 billion impairment loss on all of its goodwill using a discounted future cash flow method based on its internal operating budget for evaluation of fair value of its goodwill. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. experienced a downturn in profitability due to the intensifying competition in the tea related materials industry. See Note 12, “GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS.” We expect that net income for the year ending March 31, 2008 of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. will be marginal reflecting continuously strict business conditions. Compensation and Other Charges Related to DPF Incident In November 2004, Mitsui discovered that false data had been produced and submitted to authorities for diesel particulate filters (“DPF”s) manufactured by Mitsui’s subsidiary, PUREarth Incorporated (Japan), and sold by Mitsui. These filters were subsidized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and seven other prefectural and municipal governments, as well as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of the Environment, and related industry associations. Mitsui had sold approximately 21,500 units of the product. Mitsui carried out a three-part user response plan involving: (1) the free replacement of DPFs, (2) the reimbursement of the amount paid for purchasing Mitsui’s DPFs in exchange for their redemption and (3) a support program for the purchase of alternative vehicles, as well as redemption of DPFs. For the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui recorded ¥36.0 billion as compensation and other charges related to DPF incident, consisting of a user response charge of approximately ¥28.0 billion and subsidy compensation of approximately ¥8.0 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui recorded an additional user response charge of ¥9.0 billion, re-estimating expected costs in each user response plan reflecting changes in the requirement of each respective user. Mitsui completed the redemption of DPFs for the year ended March 31, 2007, and consequently Mitsui recorded a credit to income of ¥3.9 billion as a result of the reversal of the accrued cost for compensation and other charges. For more information, see Note 22, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” Other Expense—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, other expense—net was a ¥7.5 billion expense, an ¥8.1 billion deterioration from ¥0.6 billion in income for the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and other oil and gas exploration and producing subsidiaries reported a combined sum of ¥3.4 billion in exploration expenses; and a combined sum of ¥3.4 billion in restructuring-related charges were reported mainly by MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) and Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan). For the year ended March 31, 2006, other expenses—net consisted of individually small items. For more information on other expense—net, see Note 20, “OTHER EXPENSE—NET,” and on our restructuring activities, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” 91 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, other expense—net was ¥0.6 billion in income, an improvement of ¥7.6 billion from a ¥7.0 billion expense for the year ended March 31, 2005. The main elements of other expenses—net for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥2.5 billion in exploration expenses reported by Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and other oil and gas development and production subsidiaries; and ¥2.0 billion in restructuring-related charges. Income Taxes Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, income taxes were ¥159.0 billion, an increase of ¥24.0 billion, or 17.8%, from ¥135.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The effective tax rate was 48.2%, a decrease of 0.3 percentage points from 48.5% for the year ended March 31, 2006. For further information, see Note 21, “INCOME TAXES.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, income taxes were ¥135.0 billion, an increase of ¥30.9 billion, or 29.7%, from ¥104.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The effective tax rate was 48.5%, a decrease of 10.8 percentage points from 59.3% for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was mainly due to establishing a valuation allowance in a large amount for the year ended March 31, 2005 which was provided on deferred tax assets on the impairment loss of certain of Mitsui’s investments recorded in the past years. This factor represented a 10.6 percentage point decline in effective tax rate in the year ended March 31, 2006. Transfer price taxation issue with North West Shelf LNG Project Mitsui was audited by the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau with regard to transfer price taxation in connection with the LNG Project in Western Australia for the period of six fiscal years from the year ended March 31, 2000 to the year ended March 31, 2005. On June 30, 2006, Mitsui received a notice of tax assessment from the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau for the one year ended March 31, 2000. Based on the notice of assessment, the taxable income was corrected by ¥4.8 billion and the additional tax liabilities for income taxes were ¥2.4 billion Mitsui has paid the additional taxes and recorded the amount as income taxes—current. 92 Table of Contents Mitsui disagrees with the assessment and registered its protest in August 2006, and in addition, lodged an application in November 2006 for the mutual agreement procedure pursuant to a provision in the tax treaty between Japan and Australia in order to settle the double taxation. Mitsui believes that it is probable that the double taxation will be avoided by the mutual agreement procedure, and the amount of the correction for the year ended March 31, 2000 and the final correction and tax liabilities for the period from the year ended March 31, 2001 to the year ended March 31, 2005, if any, will be affected by the result of the mutual agreement procedure. Because the mutual agreement procedure has not been agreed yet, it is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate the amount of potential impact on our financial position and results of operations. Accordingly, except for payment based on the received assessment, the amount of potential loss and the related allowance are not reflected in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition, on June 29, 2007, Mitsui received a notice of tax assessment from the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau for the one year ended March 31, 2001. According to the notice of tax assessment, the taxable income was corrected by ¥8.2 billion and the additional tax liabilities for the Corporation Tax, Enterprise Tax and Inhabitant Tax, including penalties and interests, are ¥3.8 billion. Minority Interests in Earnings of Subsidiaries Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries were ¥26.0 billion, an increase of ¥4.5 billion, or 20.9%, from ¥21.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors are provided below. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment recorded ¥7.3 billion minority interests in earnings, up from ¥1.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) (with a minority interest of 38.1%) which owns an interest in a copper mine joint venture, Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) (with a minority interest of 49%) recorded increases in minority interests in earnings, reflecting higher copper and iron ore prices. • The Energy Segment and the Chemical Segment also reported increases in minority interests in earnings, mainly attributable to Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., which was acquired in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, and Japan-Arabia Methanol Co., Ltd., which recorded an increase in earnings supported by a favorable market environment. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, in the Foods & Retail Segment, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) (with a minority interest of 48.1%) recorded a loss from continuing operations before minority interests and equity in earnings, reflecting significant impairment losses on long-lived assets and goodwill, contributing ¥8.3 billion minority interest in income for the year ended March 31, 2007 compared to a ¥0.2 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2006. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries were ¥21.5 billion, an increase of ¥3.9 billion, or 22.2%, from ¥17.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors are provided below. • In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, Sesa Goa Limited (India) recorded a minority interest in earnings of ¥7.1 billion, an increase from ¥5.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting higher iron ore prices. 93 Table of Contents • In the Chemical Segment, P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia) (with a minority interest of 45%) recorded a minority interest of ¥2.5 billion, an increase from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting higher ammonia prices. Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) was ¥153.1 billion, a significant increase of ¥58.8 billion, or 62.4%, from ¥94.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. See “Operating Results by Operating Segment” for detailed discussion. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment reported ¥60.4 billion equity in earnings, a significant increase of ¥31.7 billion, from ¥28.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. This is attributable to Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) reflecting higher copper prices; and Valepar S.A. (Brazil), a holding company of the Brazilian iron ore and mineral resources company Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”); and Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reflecting higher iron ore prices. • The Energy Segment reported ¥44.3 billion equity in earnings, an increase of ¥10.5 billion, from ¥28.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Earnings increased at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty, Ltd. (Australia) which is involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in West Australia; and at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) which is chiefly engaged in the production of gas and crude oil in offshore Thailand. • Other operating segments also recorded improvement in general, mainly in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) was ¥94.3 billion, a significant increase of ¥30.0 billion, or 46.7%, from ¥64.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. • In the Energy Segment, earnings increased at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty, Ltd. (Australia), due to rising oil prices and increased production from the start-up of the fourth LNG production train in August 2004. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) also recorded an increase mainly due to oil price increases. Also, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings on rising crude oil prices. • In the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, earnings of Valepar S.A. (Brazil) and Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia) increased. • In the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, there was a contribution from IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom). Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations—Net (After Income Tax Effect) Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, income (loss) from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) was income of ¥3.3 billion, a ¥16.9 billion improvement from loss of ¥13.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. • The primary component of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2007 was Mitalco Inc. (United States) owned jointly by the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and 94 Table of Contents the Americas Segment. Mitalco Inc. held a 32% stake in two aluminum smelting facilities in the United States and had mainly been engaged in manufacturing and sale of aluminum. Because of the declining profitability resulting from the deterioration in the terms of the power purchase contract during the course of renewal negotiations, we sold all of our stake in both facilities. The income (loss) from discontinued operation of Mitalco Inc. for the year ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 were ¥3.1 billion income and ¥14.5 billion loss, respectively. • The primary component of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2006 was Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), a crude oil trading subsidiary reported in the Energy Segment and the Europe Segment. While Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. had been trading physical crude oil as well as future oil and oil derivatives, its expanding activity under booming oil prices exposed us to larger risks, such as market risk, and would require us to invest additional operating resources. As a result of an overall review of the business model of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. and our business portfolio, we decided to sell all the shares of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. to a new owner. We sold all shares during the year ended March 31, 2006. The income from discontinued operation of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. was minimal for the year ended March 31, 2006 and ¥6.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. For additional information about our discontinued operations, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, income (loss) from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) was loss of ¥13.6 billion, a ¥16.5 billion deterioration from income of ¥2.9 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2005. • The primary component of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2005 was Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. (Japan), a subsidiary reported in the All Other Segment. Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. had been engaged in the operation of a membership golf club in Japan, which had reported consecutive losses since the opening of the golf club because both the number of customers and the average sale per customer had declined. In these business conditions, as it was very unlikely that Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. would be able to improve its earnings and pay off its debts in the future, Mitsui disposed of the operation during the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, the income from discontinued operation of Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. was ¥0.7 billion, partially reversing losses in previous years. Operating Results by Operating Segment The business units of Mitsui’s Head Office, which are organized based on “products and services,” plan overall and worldwide strategies for their products and services and conduct their worldwide operations. The business units also collaborate with overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries in planning and executing their strategies for products and regions. The overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries are separate operating units, which are delegated responsibility for the business of their regions as the centers of each particular regional strategy and operate diversified businesses together with their subsidiaries and associated companies in collaboration with the business units. Therefore, our operating segments consist of product-focused operating segments comprised of the business units of the Head Office and region-focused operating segments comprised of overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries. Our operating segments have been aggregated based on the nature of the products and other criteria into eight product-focused reportable operating segments and four region-focused reportable operating segments, totaling twelve reportable operating segments. Beginning the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V., which was formerly included in “Europe,” has been transferred to “All Other” in order to centralize the operation of financial services to the companies and associated companies. 95 Table of Contents The operating segment information for the year ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 has been restated to conform to the current year presentation. Our operating segment information for gross profit, operating income (loss), equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies and net income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as follows: Operating Segment Information Gross Profit Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 57.8 ¥ 54.4 ¥ 47.3 ¥ 3.4 ¥ 7.1 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 122.3 110.8 74.2 11.5 36.6 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 108.0 90.6 82.9 17.4 7.7 Chemical 103.1 97.8 87.1 5.3 10.7 Energy 112.5 84.7 72.6 27.8 12.1 Foods & Retail 81.3 79.9 85.3 1.4 (5.4 ) Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 130.0 128.4 121.7 1.6 6.7 Logistics & Financial Markets 60.5 51.4 46.7 9.1 4.7 Americas 64.7 61.6 49.9 3.1 11.7 Europe 23.3 22.4 20.6 0.9 1.8 Asia 27.6 27.4 21.8 0.2 5.6 Other Overseas Areas 5.3 4.9 4.0 0.4 0.9 Total 896.4 814.3 714.1 82.1 100.2 All Other 4.4 7.1 12.4 (2.7 ) (5.3 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 2.9 (3.1 ) (18.3 ) 6.0 15.2 Consolidated Total ¥ 903.7 ¥ 818.3 ¥ 708.2 ¥ 85.4 ¥ 110.1 96 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 25.6 ¥ 26.5 ¥ 16.3 ¥ (0.9 ) ¥ 10.2 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 98.7 87.2 51.9 11.5 35.3 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 20.9 21.7 21.6 (0.8 ) 0.1 Chemical 35.3 34.0 24.5 1.3 9.5 Energy 73.9 52.0 35.4 21.9 16.6 Foods & Retail 10.9 9.1 17.8 1.8 (8.7 ) Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 20.3 25.0 24.0 (4.7 ) 1.0 Logistics & Financial Markets 24.2 17.6 18.5 6.6 (0.9 ) Americas 21.3 21.7 14.7 (0.4 ) 7.0 Europe 3.1 4.3 2.6 (1.2 ) 1.7 Asia 9.6 10.7 7.8 (1.1 ) 2.9 Other Overseas Areas (0.2 ) 1.0 0.4 (1.2 ) 0.6 Total 343.6 310.8 235.5 32.8 75.3 All Other (4.3 ) (3.2 ) (0.6 ) (1.1 ) (2.6 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (30.4 ) (39.4 ) (44.5 ) 9.0 5.1 Consolidated Total ¥ 308.9 ¥ 268.2 ¥ 190.4 ¥ 40.7 ¥ 77.8 Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income (loss) reflects our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses and (c) provision for doubtful receivables, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 3.1 ¥ 3.0 ¥ 1.7 ¥ 0.1 ¥ 1.3 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 60.4 28.7 20.7 31.7 8.0 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 21.4 14.6 10.0 6.8 4.6 Chemical 4.9 3.2 2.5 1.7 0.7 Energy 44.3 33.8 24.5 10.5 9.3 Foods & Retail 3.8 3.5 2.2 0.3 1.3 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 8.7 3.5 (0.3 ) 5.2 3.8 Logistics & Financial Markets 2.0 4.0 2.5 (2.0 ) 1.5 Americas 3.8 2.1 1.6 1.7 0.5 Europe 0.3 (0.2 ) 0.1 0.5 (0.3 ) Asia 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 Other Overseas Areas 0.5 0.6 0.4 (0.1 ) 0.2 Total 153.4 96.9 66.0 56.5 30.9 All Other 0.1 0.3 0.4 (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (0.4 ) (2.9 ) (2.1 ) 2.5 (0.8 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 153.1 ¥ 94.3 ¥ 64.3 ¥ 58.8 ¥ 30.0 97 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 20.6 ¥ 19.4 ¥ 11.6 ¥ 1.2 ¥ 7.8 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 103.8 54.7 35.4 49.1 19.3 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 33.6 30.6 20.9 3.0 9.7 Chemical 19.3 12.1 (6.9 ) 7.2 19.0 Energy 70.2 40.9 42.8 29.3 (1.9 ) Foods & Retail (12.3 ) (3.2 ) 10.6 (9.1 ) (13.8 ) Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 16.6 17.5 11.8 (0.9 ) 5.7 Logistics & Financial Markets 14.6 13.4 11.8 1.2 1.6 Americas 16.9 12.6 12.3 4.3 0.3 Europe 3.8 4.2 2.7 (0.4 ) 1.5 Asia 7.9 9.3 8.0 (1.4 ) 1.3 Other Overseas Areas 14.4 14.3 5.8 0.1 8.5 Total 309.4 225.8 166.8 83.6 59.0 All Other 5.9 11.8 4.7 (5.9 ) 7.1 Adjustments and Eliminations (13.8 ) (35.2 ) (50.4 ) 21.4 15.2 Consolidated Total ¥ 301.5 ¥ 202.4 ¥ 121.1 ¥ 99.1 ¥ 81.3 98 Table of Contents Iron & Steel Products Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 57.8 ¥ 54.4 ¥ 47.3 ¥ 3.4 ¥ 7.1 Operating Income 25.6 26.5 16.3 (0.9 ) 10.2 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 3.1 3.0 1.7 0.1 1.3 Net Income 20.6 19.4 11.6 1.2 7.8 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥57.8 billion, an increase of ¥3.4 billion from ¥54.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The overall steel products market conditions stayed firm, reflecting tight global supply-demand balance and steady domestic economy. Transactions in high-end products such as steel sheets and plates for automobiles and shipbuilding, steel tubular products and line pipes for oil and gas development especially contributed to the high level of gross profit. Furthermore, rising stainless steel products prices and strong performance at Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. (Singapore) contributed to the increase in gross profit. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥25.6 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥26.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables outweighed the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.1 billion, an increase of ¥0.1 billion from ¥3.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥20.6 billion, a ¥1.2 billion increase from ¥19.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Gains on sales of shares in domestic listed companies and dividend income from an overseas steel manufacturer contributed to increases in net income, offsetting the decrease in operating income. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥54.4 billion, an increase of ¥7.1 billion from ¥47.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2006, worldwide demand for steel products in general continued to stay firm. Steel tubular products including oil pipes and high-end steel plates for shipbuilding and automobiles contributed to the increase in gross profit, especially at Mitsui, although we saw weakening market conditions mainly in commodity type steel products arising from excessive supply from China towards the second half of the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥26.5 billion, an increase of ¥10.2 billion from ¥16.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the above-mentioned increase in gross profit and decrease in the provision for doubtful receivables. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.3 billion from ¥1.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, due to contributions by domestic companies. Reflecting the above, net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥19.4 billion, a ¥7.8 billion increase from ¥11.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. 99 Table of Contents Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 122.3 ¥ 110.8 ¥ 74.2 ¥ 11.5 ¥ 36.6 Operating Income 98.7 87.2 51.9 11.5 35.3 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 60.4 28.7 20.7 31.7 8.0 Net Income 103.8 54.7 35.4 49.1 19.3 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥122.3 billion, an increase of ¥11.5 billion from ¥110.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 as a result of the following: • The International Iron and Steel Institute reported that global crude steel output for 2006 (calendar year) maintained a high level of 1,244 million metric tons, following 1,142 million metric tons for 2005. Reflecting tight supply-demand balance in Asia, especially in China, iron ore prices for the year ended March 31, 2007 rose by 19% from the year ended March 31, 2006 resulting in increases in gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) by ¥13.7 billion, ¥3.6 billion and ¥3.4 billion, respectively. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis) increased slightly to 21.9 million tons and 2.9 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2007 from 21.8 million tons and 2.5 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2006. • The price for representative Australian metallurgical coal for the year ending March 31, 2007 decreased by approximately 10%. In addition, pressure from surging material and fuel costs resulted in an ¥11.0 billion decline in gross profit at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) from the year ended March 31, 2006. Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal declined to U.S.$110 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2007 from U.S.$125 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2006. Shipments by Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. increased to 6.7 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2007 from 5.9 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2006 due to improvement of a delay in stripping work caused by a labor and material shortage. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥98.7 billion, an increase of ¥11.5 billion from ¥87.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥60.4 billion, a significant increase of ¥31.7 billion from ¥28.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors were as follows: • Mitsui owns 18.24% of the outstanding voting shares of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), the holding company of the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”), a Brazilian iron ore and mineral resources company. Supported by higher market prices of their mining products, our equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. was ¥25.0 billion, including a ¥5.6 billion gain on issuance of stock by CVRD in exchange for Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A stock, which was a ¥10.4 billion increase from the year ended March 31, 2006. • Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia), an iron ore mining company, recorded earnings of ¥12.3 billion, an increase of ¥3.3 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. • Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile), a copper mine joint venture, recorded earnings of ¥19.2 billion, an increase of ¥15.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, due to the rise in copper price as well as a tax effect on its retained earnings for the additional Chilean tax charged to 100 Table of Contents dividend recipients which took place in the year ended March 31, 2006. The London Metals Exchange (“LME”) copper price for 2006 (calendar year) was US$6,731 per ton on average, a significant increase from US$3,684 per ton for 2005 (calendar year). Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥103.8 billion, a ¥49.1 billion increase from ¥54.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In addition to improvement in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, there were the following components: • This segment recorded a ¥14.2 billion gain on the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan) for the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, an aluminum smelting subsidiary Mitalco Inc. (United States) recorded an ¥11.8 billion impairment loss on plant facilities and ¥11.5 billion other expenses including impairment on goodwill. However, it recorded a gain on the sale of its stake in aluminum smelters for the year ended March 31, 2007. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥110.8 billion, a significant increase of ¥36.6 billion from ¥74.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The main elements of the increase were as follows: • The International Iron and Steel Institute reported that global crude steel output for 2005 (calendar year) maintained a high level of 1,142 million metric tons, following 1,067 million metric tons for 2004 when it reached the level of 1,000 million metric tons for the first time ever. The Australian iron ore prices under long-term contracts for the year ended March 31, 2006 rose by 71.5% from the year ended March 31, 2005. This resulted in major increases in gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Sesa Goa Limited (India) of ¥17.9 billion, ¥3.0 billion and ¥5.6 billion, respectively, over the year ended March 31, 2005. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis) increased slightly to 21.8 million tons and 2.5 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2006 from 21.3 million tons and 2.4 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2005. • Similarly, prices for metallurgical coal and thermal coal for the year ended March 31, 2006 rose sharply. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded a ¥13.8 billion increase in gross profit over the year ended March 31, 2005, in spite of a decline in output volume and increased production cost from surging fuel and material costs. Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal rose to U.S.$125 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2006 from U.S.$57 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2005. Shipments by Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. decreased to 5.9 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2006 from 6.8 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2005 due to a delay in stripping work caused by a labor and material shortage. Consistent with the increase in gross profit, operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥87.2 billion, an increase of ¥35.3 billion from ¥51.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥28.7 billion, an increase of ¥8.0 billion from ¥20.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors were as follows: • Reflecting improved operating results of CVRD, driven by rising mineral resources prices, our equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥14.6 billion, a ¥8.2 billion increase from the year ended March 31, 2005. Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded earnings of ¥9.0 billion, an improvement by ¥4.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2005. • Equity in earnings of Companhia Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) was ¥3.7 billion, a ¥4.1 billion decline from the year ended March 31, 2005. In the year ended March 31, 2006, this investee declared dividends, so Mitsui recognized the tax effect on its retained earnings for the additional 101 Table of Contents Chilean tax charged to dividend recipients. This change outweighed the positive effect on its operations from rising copper price. Average LME copper prices rose to U.S.$3,684 per ton/FOB for 2005 (calendar year) from U.S.$2,868 per ton/FOB for 2004 (calendar year). Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥54.7 billion, a ¥19.3 billion increase from ¥35.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The significant increase for the year ended March 31, 2006 resulted from the improvement in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, while it was partly offset by impairment loss and other expenses at Mitalco Inc. (United States). Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Iron & Steel Raw Materials, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance The iron ore and coal (metallurgical coal) production joint venture businesses in Australia and other regions in which we participate with major overseas mineral resources companies conclude supply contracts with Japanese steel manufacturers and major clients in other countries every year. Based on such contracts, sales prices are reviewed and renegotiated each fiscal year. For the year ending March 31, 2008, the annual prices of iron ore and coal are as follows. (Unit prices for iron ore and coal from each mine in production also reflect the difference of respective grades and types.) • For the year ending March 31, 2008, the annual prices of iron ore concluded by major mining houses and worldwide major users rose by 9.5% from the year ended March 31, 2007 on a pure ore content basis. The price level reflected limited production capacities in Australia and Brazil and tightened market supply-demand balance in the face of active global demand for iron and steel raw materials mainly from China. • Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal declined to around U.S.$92 per ton/FOB for the year ending March 31, 2008, approximately 15.5% down from the year ended March 31, 2007. On the other hand, prices for soft coking coal rose by 9% from the year ended March 31, 2007. The price levels reflected different price trends for each product category. In general, market supply-demand balance for coal had been softened due to increased production in China and expanded production capacity elsewhere in the world, whereas thermal coal market had been tightened, reflecting increased demand in the power industry mainly in China. Fluctuations in iron ore and coal prices directly affect revenues from the equity-based production at our iron ore and coal subsidiaries and associated companies. For the year ending March 31, 2008, the estimated impact on net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income arising from changes in iron ore and coal prices is as follows: • Estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in iron ore price: Approximately ¥2.6 billion. • Estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in coal price: Approximately ¥0.7 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2007, the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies in shipments amounted to approximately 43 million tons of iron ore and approximately 7 million tons of coal. The above-mentioned effect is calculated based on the assumptions of an estimated increase in production in line with our holdings after the year ended March 31, 2007, and a specific range of foreign exchange rates for yen, the U.S. dollar and other related currencies. In April 2007, we sold all of our stake (51% voting share) in Sesa Goa Limited (India) for U.S.$981 million and recorded a ¥93.2 billion gain on sale of securities. The decrease in iron ore production resulting from the sale of the stake in Sesa Goa Limited is included in the aforementioned assumptions based on which the impact on net income for the year ending March 31, 2008 arising from price changes is calculated. 102 Table of Contents Efforts are being undertaken at each mine to expand production and shipments, but production costs are increasing amid a global trend of rising material and equipment costs as well as utility costs. In natural resource producing countries such as Australia and Brazil, there is a general trend toward currency appreciation in line with growing export of those products, resulting in negative impact on the revenues of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production In order to respond to tightening supply-demand balance, major iron ore and coal producers are investing to increase production capacity. As of March 31, 2007, noteworthy developments in iron and steel raw materials projects in which we hold stakes are as follows: (Unless otherwise noted, production amounts represent a 100% basis.) • With respect to iron ore mining joint ventures with the BHP Billiton group, we are expanding to raise the combined iron ore production capacity to 129 million tons per annum from 118 million tons by the year ending March 31, 2008. In addition, the joint ventures have further agreed to an expansion plan to increase annual production capacity to 155 million tons and to start production by 2010. Furthermore, with respect to iron ore mining joint ventures with the Rio Tinto group, we have agreed to a plan to increase port capacity at Cape Lambert in the Pilbara region of Western Australia from nameplate capacity of 55 to 80 million tons per annum by the end of 2008. • With respect to coal mining joint ventures promoted with the Anglo American group, expansion work of the Dawson complex is ongoing to boost annual coal production from the present capacity of 6.5 million tons per annum to 12.7 million tons by the year ending March 31, 2008. Including those we are participating in, most of the iron and steel raw material mining projects have plans for expanding their production capacity. As there are too many uncertainties including demand from China and other emerging countries, it is difficult for our management to draw up definitive forecasts on supply-demand balance and prices at this point in time. Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 108.0 ¥ 90.6 ¥ 82.9 ¥ 17.4 ¥ 7.7 Operating Income 20.9 21.7 21.6 (0.8 ) 0.1 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 21.4 14.6 10.0 6.8 4.6 Net Income 33.6 30.6 20.9 3.0 9.7 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥108.0 billion, an increase of ¥17.4 billion from ¥90.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. • In machinery business fields, Improvement in gross profit was primarily attributable to a motorcycle retail finance company P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) and automotive-related subsidiaries in the Americas and Europe and overseas construction machinery subsidiaries, as well as ocean vessels and marine project businesses. • In infrastructure projects business fields, gross profit slightly increased due to expanding operations of rolling stock leasing subsidiaries in Europe and the Americas, while there were decreases in executed and completed amounts of various overseas construction projects including power plant projects. 103 Table of Contents Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥20.9 billion, a decrease of ¥0.8 billion from ¥21.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease is primarily attributable to the decrease in gross profit related to overseas plant project businesses and a new provision for doubtful receivables for an overseas customer. Operating income of subsidiaries in the machinery business and rolling stock leasing subsidiaries improved in general, although the growth in gross profit was partly offset by the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables especially to automotive related customers. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥21.4 billion, an increase of ¥6.8 billion from ¥14.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Equity in earnings of overseas power producing businesses recorded an increase of ¥3.9 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, which was mainly attributable to a strong performance by IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) including contribution from the Saltend Power Plant acquired in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2006 and P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia). In addition, a newly acquired gas distribution business in Brazil contributed, and overseas associated companies engaged in automotive related business and construction machinery business performed strongly as well. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥33.6 billion, an increase of ¥3.0 billion from ¥30.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, principally due to the increase in equity in earnings, while partly offset by increased interest expense. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥90.6 billion, an increase of ¥7.7 billion from ¥82.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Gross profit increased at P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) and other overseas automotive related operations particularly in the Americas. Also, there was a contribution from a newly acquired construction machinery sales subsidiary, Road Machinery, LLC (United States). Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥21.7 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.1 billion from ¥21.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, because the increase in gross profit was largely offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses at the above-mentioned subsidiaries that showed growth in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥14.6 billion, an increase of ¥4.6 billion from ¥10.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to the contribution of IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom), which is engaged in overseas power generation businesses, and strong performance in ship and marine project related businesses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥30.6 billion, an increase of ¥9.7 billion from ¥20.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, due to the above-mentioned improvements in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. Chemical Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2007–2006) Change (2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 103.1 ¥ 97.8 ¥ 87.1 ¥ 5.3 ¥ 10.7 Operating Income 35.3 34.0 24.5 1.3 9.5 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 4.9 3.2 2.5 1.7 0.7 Net Income (Loss) 19.3 12.1 (6.9 ) 7.2 19.0 104 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit was ¥103.1 billion, an increase of ¥5.3 billion from ¥97.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The principal developments in this segment were as follows: • In basic petrochemicals fields ranging from basic materials to mid-stream intermediate products, gross profit slightly decreased in aggregate. This segment experienced decline in profit from olefin business under tight supply-demand balance due to significant inflation in material cost, and ammonia business due to reduced trading volume, while profit from methanol, styrene and paraxylene businesses increased supported by tight market conditions. • The liquid crystal related module business continued to be robust and so was plastics including IT related parts and components, and inorganic mineral and raw materials such as salt, titanium oxide and sulfur, reflecting strong demand of those materials especially in Asia. • Gross profit increased by ¥4.0 billion at Novus International, Inc. (United States), a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary, whose profit margin has recovered due to improvement in market prices as well as reduced pressure from raw materials prices coupled by reversal effects of the losses associated with hurricane Katrina, which hit the United States during the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥35.3 billion, an increase of ¥1.3 billion from ¥34.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The improvement in gross profit was partly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and the provision for doubtful receivables including that of Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio (Brazil). Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4.9 billion, an increase of ¥1.7 billion from ¥3.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, mainly due to the contribution of International Methanol Company (Saudi Arabia), a methanol manufacturer, supported by a favorable market environment. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥19.3 billion, an increase of ¥7.2 billion from ¥12.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In addition to the increases in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, Mitsui recorded a credit to income of ¥3.9 billion as a result of the reversal of the accrued cost which had been set up based on estimated cost for compensation and other charges related to the DPF incident during past years as a result of completion of redemption of the relevant DPFs. Mitsui recorded a ¥9.0 billion user response charge for the year ended March 31, 2006. For more information, see Note 22, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥97.8 billion, an increase of ¥10.7 billion from ¥87.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors were as follows: • During the year ended March 31, 2006, overall market prices for petrochemical products stayed high, reflecting the high crude oil price. As was the case of the preceding year, Mitsui’s petrochemicals trading continued to benefit from favorable market conditions. Following rising natural gas prices in the United States, transactions in ammonia and methanol, both derivatives of natural gas, made steady improvements. An ammonia producing subsidiary, PT Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia), reported increases in gross profit. On the other hand, during the year ended March 31, 2005, there were one-time unrealized losses on certain long-term petrochemical purchase commitments as a result of rising purchase prices that were linked to natural gas prices. • During the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit declined at Novus International, Inc. (United States) due to rising raw material costs and lower output caused by the hurricanes which hit the United States. • Mitsui increased gross profit from the trading of plastics, electronic materials and crystalline liquid for IT related industries and inorganic raw materials such as salt and sulfur reflecting increasing demand in Asia. 105 Table of Contents Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥34.0 billion, an increase of ¥9.5 billion from ¥24.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to the increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.2 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.7 billion from ¥2.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to the contribution of International Methanol Company (Saudi Arabia), following its commencement of commercial operation. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥12.1 billion, an improvement of ¥19.0 billion from a ¥6.9 billion net loss for the year ended March 31, 2005. In addition to the above-mentioned improvement in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, the major factors were as follows: • Mitsui recorded ¥36.0 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2005 for compensation and other charges related to the DPF incident. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui recorded ¥9.0 billion additional user response charges. As of end of June 2006 more than 99% of the DPFs had been redeemed. • For the year ended March 31, 2005, we sold our shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited, a manufacturer of high-density polyethylene in Thailand, which had been jointly owned by the Chemical Segment and the Asia Segment. Of the ¥3.9 billion gain realized in the sale, this segment’s share came to ¥2.5 billion. Energy Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2007–2006) Change (2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 112.5 ¥ 84.7 ¥ 72.6 ¥ 27.8 ¥ 12.1 Operating Income 73.9 52.0 35.4 21.9 16.6 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 44.3 33.8 24.5 10.5 9.3 Net Income 70.2 40.9 42.8 29.3 (1.9 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, the crude oil market remained volatile with the average price of crude oil bound for Japan, Japan Crude Cocktail (“JCC”), recording a high of US$72.06 per barrel in September 2006, and then dropping back to US$55.08 per barrel in February 2007. On average, crude oil prices continued to rise reflecting increased demand along with the expansion of the global economy, geopolitical uncertainty surrounding supply from the Middle East and other oil producing regions, and an influx of speculative money into the futures markets. Average JCC for the year ended March 31, 2007 rose to U.S.$63.58 per barrel from U.S.$55.80 per barrel for the year ended March 31, 2006. Average JCC for calendar year 2006 was U.S.$64.08 compared to U.S.$51.11 for calendar year 2005. We observe that the JCC price trend is generally reflected in the net income of our overseas oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies in this segment within a 0 to 6 month time lag. Considering these time lags, Mitsui periodically calculates the weighted average JCC price applied to operating results of those oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies for internal reviewing purposes. Such weighted average JCC prices for internal reviewing purposes for the year ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 were U.S.$64 per barrel and U.S.$50 per barrel, respectively. 106 Table of Contents Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥112.5 billion, an increase of ¥27.8 billion from ¥84.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 primarily due to the following: • There were new contributions of ¥16.4 billion by Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) due to the start-up of oil production at the Enfield oil field in July 2006(*) and ¥2.1 billion by MitEnergy Upstream LLC (United States) which acquired oil and gas interests in the Gulf of Mexico from Pogo Producing Company. Rising crude oil prices resulted in an increase in gross profit of overseas subsidiaries engaged in the development and production of oil and gas, including a ¥5.3 billion increase at Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) operating in Oman. • As a result of Mitsui’s acquisition of additional voting shares in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., a production company of gas and crude oil mainly in offshore Thailand, during the fourth quarter of this fiscal year, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., formerly an associated company, became a subsidiary in which Mitsui has 50.3% voting interest. There was a new contribution from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. of ¥15.1 billion. • In November 2006, it was found that one of the traders at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) had incurred, but concealed by deceptively reporting, significant unrealized losses on physical and future trading of naphtha. Primarily because accumulated losses realized through orderly liquidation of the relevant transactions amounted to ¥9.6 billion, gross profit at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. declined by ¥10.1 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. Total contribution of oil products trading in this segment, with the exception of Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd., for the year ended March 31, 2007 was almost at the same level as the year ended March 31, 2006. • Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan), a domestic petroleum products wholesale and retail subsidiary, recorded an increase of ¥3.0 billion due to its success in raising the sales prices of products and subsequent decline in costs reflecting the fall in crude oil prices after summer 2006. On the other hand, Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded decreases in gross profit of ¥2.2 billion affected by reduced margin of its products. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥73.9 billion, an increase of ¥21.9 billion from ¥52.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase in gross profit was partly offset by a provision for doubtful receivables for an overseas oil exploration company. Reflecting higher crude oil prices, equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥44.3 billion, an increase of ¥10.5 billion from ¥33.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase was mainly attributable to Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), which is involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in Western Australia. In addition, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. recorded earnings of ¥8.4 billion, an increase of ¥2.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, despite being classified as an associated company for only nine months up to the third quarter for this fiscal year. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥70.2 billion, a significant increase of ¥29.3 billion from ¥40.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Other than the increases in operating income and equity in earnings, there were the following factors: • Interest expense related to the Sakhalin II project increased by ¥9.0 billion as a result of an increase in interest bearing debt which was used to fund the increasing investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and an increase in the U.S. dollar interest rates. • Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman were ¥26.6 billion, an increase of ¥13.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2006. * There is a 3 month time lag between the operating results of Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd with its fiscal year end in December and its reflection into our consolidated operating results. Namely, ¥16.4 billion gross profit of Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd represents the performance for six months. 107 Table of Contents • This segment significantly increased repatriation of undistributed earnings from overseas subsidiaries and associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increased dividends received from those overseas entities resulted in a significant increase in Japanese income tax expenses in this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2006, crude oil prices continued to rise reflecting increased demand along with the expansion of the global economy. Average JCC for the year ended March 31, 2006 rose significantly to U.S.$55.80 per barrel from U.S.$38.77 per barrel for the year ended March 31, 2005. Average JCC for calendar year 2005 was U.S.$51.11 compared to U.S.$36.37 for calendar year 2004. The weighted average JCC prices (considering a 0 to 6 month time lag on the segment’s net income) for internal reviewing purposes for the year ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 were U.S.$50 per barrel and U.S.$36 per barrel, respectively. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥84.7 billion, an increase of ¥12.1 billion from ¥72.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 mainly due to the following factors: • Among overseas subsidiaries engaged in the development, production and sale of oil and gas, Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) increased gross profit by ¥10.9 billion, reflecting the rise in oil prices. Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. (Australia), which sells crude oil and condensate, also recorded an increase of ¥6.9 billion. • Mitsui sold all of the shares in Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) during the year ended March 31, 2006. This resulted in a ¥12.3 billion decrease in gross profit from the year ended March 31, 2005, as Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. recorded an outstanding performance in crude oil trading for the year ended March 31, 2005. On the other hand, Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) recorded increases in gross profit for oil products trading of ¥2.7 billion and ¥1.9 billion, respectively, reflecting the strong demand in Asia and higher crude oil prices. • As for domestic petroleum products and gas wholesale and retail subsidiaries, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), recorded decreases in gross profit of ¥2.0 billion in total because of rising costs caused by the higher crude oil prices. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥52.0 billion, an increase of ¥16.6 billion from ¥35.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. In addition, for the year ended March 31, 2006, there was a collection of an account receivable which had been previously written off, for more than previously estimated as collectible. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥33.8 billion, an increase by ¥9.3 billion from ¥24.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors were as below: • Earnings increased significantly at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia) due to rising oil prices and increased production on the back of start-up of the fourth LNG production train in August 2004. • Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) also recorded an increase in earnings to ¥5.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 from ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, mainly due to rising crude oil prices. • Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings due to the rising crude oil price. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥40.9 billion, a decrease by ¥1.9 billion from ¥42.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Besides increases in operating income and equity in earnings of 108 Table of Contents associated companies, dividend income from our three LNG projects in the Middle East remained at a continuously high level of ¥13.4 billion, a ¥0.6 billion increase over the year ended March 31, 2005. However, these positive factors were more than offset by the following factors: • For the year ended March 31, 2006, increased dividends received from overseas subsidiaries and associated companies resulted in a large increase in income tax expenses at Mitsui. • Interest expenses at Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. (Netherlands) increased by ¥6.7 billion due to the rise in U.S. dollar interest rates and the increase in interest bearing debt to finance the investment in the Sakhalin II project. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Energy, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance A survey conducted by the International Energy Agency (May 2007) indicated that world crude oil demand in 2006 was 84.2 million barrels per day, with an estimated demand for 2007 of 85.7 million barrels per day. As of June 2007, general observations on short-term supply-demand balance of crude oil by agencies and corporations in this industry suggest that: • Robust global economic growth will continue to support oil demand, however, considering strong expectations for increasing output by non-Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and spare capacity amongst OPEC countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, it will be less likely that spot crude oil supply-demand will be extremely tightened. Meanwhile, productions for certain grades of crude oil are not at satisfactory levels to meet demand, so we may see tight or surplus market conditions by respective grades. • The oil market can be significantly influenced by growing geopolitical uncertainties over such countries as Iran, Nigeria and Iraq, concerns about shortage in gasoline supply in the United States, and other accidental events such as hurricane damage and troubles at refineries. Our production of oil and gas for the year ended March 31, 2006 was about 32 million barrels (gas is converted to barrels of oil at the ratio of 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas to 1 barrel of crude oil), as presented in Table 4, Proved Reserve Quantity Information of Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited). Our production amount for the year ended March 31, 2007 is 52 million barrels, an increase of 20 million barrels from the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors include the July 2006 start-up of production from the Enfield crude oil project. Our production amount for the year ended March 31, 2008 will further increase due to full-year contribution from this project. In addition, the acquisition of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. up to Mitsui’s 50.3% voting interest contributed to the increase in our annual production for the year ended March 31, 2007. The Enfield crude oil project which has a design production capacity at 100,000 barrels per day commenced production in July 2006, ahead of schedule, and achieved production of 74,000 barrels per day in September. In October, however, one of the major production wells was shut-in due to unexpected sand production and early water breakthrough. The actual production level has been lower than expected. In February 2007, after the geological reservoir model was restudied and updated in line with production history, Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) together with the joint venture partner and operator Woodside Energy Ltd. agreed on a budget including additional expenditures of approximately US$390 million for drilling of additional wells and work-over of existing wells in order to increase production from the Enfield crude oil project. Following the completion of the work-over, the average production rate for 2007 is expected to be 45,000 to 55,000 barrels per day. 109 Table of Contents For the year ending March 31, 2008, a change of U.S.$1 per barrel in crude oil prices is expected to have an effect of ¥1.8 billion on net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income as a result of changes in revenues of our oil and gas related subsidiaries and associated companies. Similar to the discussion regarding iron and steel raw materials, actual results of operations are also influenced by production costs, trends in foreign exchange rates and other factors surrounding those subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production The middle- and long-term trends in supply, demand, and prices of crude oil are subject to far greater levels of uncertainty than trends in the short-term, and it is therefore difficult for management to make a definitive forecast. On the other hand, with respect to LNG, we are focusing on the changes in market structure that are currently taking place, and acting accordingly as follows: • In the past, the market has grown mainly with long-term purchase contracts by power and gas companies operating in Japan and the Far East. Expansion of incumbent projects and green field projects coming on stream will increase the volume of supply to the market, while demand, which has traditionally centered around the Far East, will be joined by growing demand from Europe and the United States, while huge markets in China and India will emerge. Therefore, globalization both in terms of supply and demand is expected to progress. In addition, as the opportunity for supply-demand adjustments in these markets increases, LNG is expected to become a more marketable commodity. • Long-term purchase contracts with Japanese companies in many projects are expected to come due for renewal around 2010, and more flexible terms reflecting the above-mentioned supply-demand balance trends will be requested from the buyers. In evaluating the opportunities for the expansion of incumbent projects or participation in green field projects, we are putting an emphasis on securing stable supply as well as diversifying our source of supply to enhance flexibility. The total required funds for the phase II development of the Sakhalin II project are now estimated at U.S.$20 billion, double the original budget of U.S.$10 billion, due to increased expenses related to changes in facility design and construction delays as well as the rising procurement costs of labor and materials. In April 2007, the Amended Development Budget was approved by the Supervisory Board, a special committee which consists of the representatives of the Russian Federation, Sakhalin Oblast, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and its shareholders. In April 2007, in addition, the revised Environmental Action Plan was approved by the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation. Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. has been making every effort to achieve the earliest possible start of LNG shipments, which is now scheduled in the second half of 2008, and to contain costs. In February 2007, Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. committed to purchasing additional volume, with which overall sales of Sakhalin II LNG has been substantially completed. On April 18, 2007, Mitsui, Royal Dutch Shell plc and Mitsubishi Corporation signed a Sale and Purchase Agreement with OAO Gazprom to trigger the transfer of shares in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. This transaction implemented a protocol signed on December 21, 2006 in Moscow. Under the terms of the protocol, OAO Gazprom acquired a 50% stake plus one share in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. for a total cash purchase price of U.S.$7.45 billion, of which U.S.$18.625 billion was our portion. OAO Gazprom now holds 50% plus one share, Royal Dutch Shell plc 27.5% minus one share, Mitsui 12.5% and Mitsubishi Corporation 10%. OAO Gazprom and the other three shareholders agreed that they will do their best to complete the project on schedule allowing LNG to be delivered to existing customers in Japan, Korea and the North American West Coast. They also entered into an Area of Mutual Interest arrangement, which will cover both future Sakhalin oil and gas exploration and production opportunities, and the building of Sakhalin II into a regional oil and LNG hub. 110 Table of Contents Foods & Retail Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2007–2006) Change (2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 81.3 ¥ 79.9 ¥ 85.3 ¥ 1.4 ¥ (5.4 ) Operating Income 10.9 9.1 17.8 1.8 (8.7 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 3.8 3.5 2.2 0.3 1.3 Net Income (Loss) (12.3 ) (3.2 ) 10.6 (9.1 ) (13.8 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥81.3 billion, an increase of ¥1.4 billion from ¥79.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major factors were as follows: • Gross profit of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) decreased by ¥1.1 billion, primarily reflecting the termination of business relations with The Daiei, Inc, a Japanese national retailer. • Gross profit of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) decreased by ¥2.9 billion due to poor performance in beverage and beverage materials businesses and divestiture of non-core businesses. • Gross profit of Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) increased by ¥3.1 billion. There was a full year contribution from Hokushuren Company Limited which was acquired in the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥10.9 billion, an increase of ¥1.8 billion from ¥9.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In addition to improvement in gross profit, there was a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses. Among others, a ¥3.2 billion reduction was reported by MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. reflecting decreased personnel expenses and depreciation costs. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.8 billion, a ¥0.3 billion increase from ¥3.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The segment recorded net loss of ¥12.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, a ¥9.1 billion deterioration from ¥3.2 billion net loss for the year ended March 31, 2006. This decline was mainly attributable to the following reasons: • Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill of ¥12.1 billion and ¥16.5 billion, respectively, and moreover established valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. At the same time, an ¥8.3 billion minority interest in these losses was also recorded. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. recorded ¥6.0 billion impairment losses on land and distribution facilities which became idle as a result of the reorganization of distribution bases. For the year ended March 31, 2007, it reported further ¥2.2 billion impairment losses of long-lived assets and ¥1.4 billion other expenses incurred from its business reorganization. In addition Hokushuren Company Limited reported the sum of ¥1.4 billion impairment losses of long-lived assets and other expenses. In April 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui reached an agreement with KOKUBU & CO., LTD., a Japanese food wholesaler, in principle to form a business alliance. It includes KOKUBU’s support and guidance for the management and operations of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. in order to reinforce the business functions of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and improve efficiency in its distribution logistics. In April 2007, KOKUBU & CO., LTD. and Mitsui reached an agreement where MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. shall transfer a major part of the businesses of its Hokkaido Branch to Hokushuren Company Limited and Mitsui shall transfer 111 Table of Contents 70% of its stake in Hokushuren Company Limited to KOKUBU & CO., LTD. Furthermore, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. has decided a restructuring plan which is focused on integration of distribution bases and review of cost efficiency in areas other than Hokkaido. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥79.9 billion, a ¥5.4 billion decrease from ¥85.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors for this decline, in spite of the contribution from a newly acquired subsidiary Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan) were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2006, gross profit decreased at Mitsui in the beverage businesses, from the year ended March 31, 2005 when those businesses showed strong performance due to a summer heat wave in 2004. Transactions also decreased in marine products and cheese businesses. • Gross profit of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) decreased by ¥2.0 billion due to a decline in sales of catechin, a substance in tea. • Gross profit of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) decreased by ¥1.7 billion, principally attributable to the termination of business relations with The Daiei, Inc. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥9.1 billion, a decrease of ¥8.7 billion from ¥17.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. In addition to the above-mentioned decrease in gross profit, this was due to an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of the acquisition of Hokushuren Company Limited and an increase in personnel expenses at MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. in connection with the establishment of new distribution bases. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.5 billion, a ¥1.3 billion increase from ¥2.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was primarily due to the contribution from Ventura Foods LLC (United States), a processed oil foods manufacturer, reflecting improvement in raw material costs. This segment recorded net loss of ¥3.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, a ¥13.8 billion deterioration from ¥10.6 billion net income for the year ended March 31, 2005. This downturn was attributable to the above-mentioned decrease in operating income. In addition, for the year ended March 31, 2006, this segment recorded the following: • MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD recorded ¥6.0 billion impairment losses on land and distribution facilities and established valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets. • We recorded a ¥4.2 billion gain from the exchange of shares of Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. and Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd., for newly issued shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., one of Japan’s diversified retailers. Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change (2007–2006) Change (2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 130.0 ¥ 128.4 ¥ 121.7 ¥ 1.6 ¥ 6.7 Operating Income 20.3 25.0 24.0 (4.7 ) 1.0 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 8.7 3.5 (0.3 ) 5.2 3.8 Net Income 16.6 17.5 11.8 (0.9 ) 5.7 112 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥130.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.6 billion from ¥128.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In the lifestyle business fields, the brand apparel business showed disappointing results. On the other hand, in consumer service business fields, gross profit increased in the overseas real estate businesses. In IT related business fields, gross profit slightly increased mainly due to increase of mobile phone sales at Telepark Corp. (Japan) and expansion of outsourcing business at Toyo Officemation Inc. (Japan). Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥20.3 billion, a decrease of ¥4.7 billion from ¥25.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The improvement in gross profit was outweighed by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses primarily at IT related business operations. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥8.7 billion, an increase of ¥5.2 billion from ¥3.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. A television shopping service company, QVC JAPAN, INC. (Japan), continued good performance and a mobile phone sales company, Brightstar Logistics Pty. (Australia), also contributed to this improvement. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥16.6 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥17.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major reasons other than the above-mentioned factors were as follows: • Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan), which discontinued housing business during the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded estimated costs of ¥5.3 billion to meet future requirement for product warranties and maintenance services. At the same time, it recorded reversal of valuation allowance for deferred tax assets on its retained loss. • There was a ¥6.1 billion reduction in gain on sales of securities. For the year ended March 31, 2006, there were gains on sales of shares in Metro PCS, Inc. in the United States, KDDI CORPORATION in Japan and PT Excelcomindo Pratama, Tbk in Indonesia amounting to ¥3.5 billion, ¥3.3 billion and ¥2.0 billion, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2007, this segment recorded a ¥4.5 billion gain on the sale of shares in Telepark Corp. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui received a ¥2.0 billion dividend from an investment company related to gains on the sales of interests in telecommunication companies in Africa. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥128.4 billion, a ¥6.7 billion increase from ¥121.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors for this increase were as follows: • In IT related business fields, gross profit rose at Telepark Corp. (Japan). There were also contributions from NextCom K.K. (Japan) which became a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005. • In lifestyle business fields, gross profit decreased due to withdrawal from cement businesses and overall poor performance in textile businesses. • In consumer service business fields, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) recorded a decline due to decreased sales of houses built for sale. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥25.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.0 billion from ¥24.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The above-mentioned improvement in gross profit was partly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables at Mitsui Bussan Forestry Co., Ltd. (Japan). 113 Table of Contents Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.5 billion, a ¥3.8 billion improvement from the ¥0.3 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2005. A television shopping service company, QVC JAPAN, INC. (Japan), and a food catering service company, AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan), contributed to this improvement, while there were losses at telecommunication related associated companies in Colombia due to provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2005. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥17.5 billion, a ¥5.7 billion increase from ¥11.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 principally due to the improvement in the above-mentioned operating income and equity in earnings. Other major factors were as follows: • Gains on sales of securities decreased ¥3.4 billion from the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2006, there were gains on sales of shares in Metro PCS, Inc., KDDI CORPORATION and PT Excelcomindo Pratama, Tbk as mentioned above. For the year ended March 31, 2005, there were gains on sales of shares in Vodafone K.K. and our subsidiary Telepark Corp. amounting to ¥7.2 billion and ¥4.1 billion, respectively, as well as a ¥3.7 billion gain associated with the merger of NextCom K.K. • For the year ended March 31, 2005, considering a deterioration in financial condition due to sluggish advertising revenue at satellite broadcasters BS-i, INCORPORATED and BS Japan Corporation, this segment recorded losses on write-downs of these shares of ¥1.9 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui received a ¥2.0 billion dividend from a telecommunication related investment. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 60.5 ¥ 51.4 ¥ 46.7 ¥ 9.1 ¥ 4.7 Operating Income 24.2 17.6 18.5 6.6 (0.9 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 2.0 4.0 2.5 (2.0 ) 1.5 Net Income 14.6 13.4 11.8 1.2 1.6 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit was ¥60.5 billion, an increase of ¥9.1 billion from ¥51.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Mitsui, Mitsui Bussan Commodities Ltd. (United Kingdom) and Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) showed strong performance seizing opportunities under volatile market conditions. Furthermore there was a new contribution from a newly acquired domestic warehouse subsidiary for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥24.2 billion, an increase of ¥6.6 billion from ¥17.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The above-mentioned increase in gross profit was partly offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses mainly at logistics related operations. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥2.0 billion, a ¥2.0 billion decrease from ¥4.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The equity in earnings consists of miscellaneous small amounts. There was a loss on write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2007. As a result, net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥14.6 billion, an increase of ¥1.2 billion from ¥13.4 billion. 114 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥51.4 billion, an increase of ¥4.7 billion from ¥46.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) showed continuously strong performance in energy derivative trading and reported an increase over the year ended March 31, 2005. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥17.6 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥18.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting an increase in personnel expenses at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥4.0 billion, a ¥1.5 billion increase from ¥2.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥13.4 billion, an increase of ¥1.6 billion from ¥11.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Americas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 64.7 ¥ 61.6 ¥ 49.9 ¥ 3.1 ¥ 11.7 Operating Income 21.3 21.7 14.7 (0.4 ) 7.0 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 3.8 2.1 1.6 1.7 0.5 Net Income 16.9 12.6 12.3 4.3 0.3 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥64.7 billion, an increase of ¥3.1 billion from ¥61.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. An oil products trading subsidiary, Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States), recorded an increase of ¥4.3 billion while Portac, Inc. (United States), a lumber and lumber products producing subsidiary, recorded a ¥1.1 billion decrease. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥21.3 billion, a decrease of ¥0.4 billion from ¥21.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting increased selling, general and administrative expenses including higher trader bonuses at Westport Petroleum, Inc. and an increase in provision for doubtful receivables. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.8 billion, a ¥1.7 billion increase from ¥2.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥16.9 billion, an increase of ¥4.3 billion from ¥12.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major factors other than above are as below: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, there was a ¥3.7 billion gain on sales of warehouse and lands by Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States) and a chemical subsidiary, Nst, Inc. (United States). • Interest expenses increased by ¥4.8 billion at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and its subsidiaries resulting from a rise in U.S. dollar interest rates. • Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. had a 20% minority interest in Mitalco Inc. (United States) and shared the net losses of the subsidiary for the year ended March 31, 2006 with the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment which held 80% interest. 115 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥61.6 billion, an increase of ¥11.7 billion from ¥49.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Westport Petroleum, Inc. recorded a significant increase of ¥13.2 billion and a steel pipe sales subsidiary, Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States), recorded a ¥1.7 billion increase. In addition, there was a contribution of ¥1.2 billion from CornerStone Research & Development Inc. (United States) which was acquired during the year ended March 31, 2005. However, gross profit decreased by ¥1.9 billion at Portac, Inc., which produces lumber and lumber products, due to a decline in the prices of its products. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥21.7 billion, a ¥7.0 billion increase from ¥14.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the increase in gross profit, which was partly offset by higher trader bonuses at Westport Petroleum, Inc. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥12.6 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.3 billion from ¥12.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The increase in operating income was offset by the following factors: • Interest expense at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and its subsidiaries increased by ¥3.0 billion resulting from a rise in U.S. dollar interest rates. • Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. has a minority interest in Mitalco Inc. and shared the net losses of this subsidiary for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2006 with the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment. Europe Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 23.3 ¥ 22.4 ¥ 20.6 ¥ 0.9 ¥ 1.8 Operating Income 3.1 4.3 2.6 (1.2 ) 1.7 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 0.3 (0.2 ) 0.1 0.5 (0.3 ) Net Income 3.8 4.2 2.7 (0.4 ) 1.5 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥23.3 billion, an increase of ¥0.9 billion from ¥22.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting good performance of organic chemicals businesses. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.1 billion, a ¥1.2 billion decrease from ¥4.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting an increase mainly in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.8 billion, a decrease of ¥0.4 billion from ¥4.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥22.4 billion, an increase of ¥1.8 billion from ¥20.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, which was mainly attributable to the growth in the steel pipes and organic chemicals businesses. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥4.3 billion, a ¥1.7 billion increase from ¥2.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the increase in gross profit. 116 Table of Contents Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥4.2 billion, a ¥1.5 billion increase from ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This segment had a minority interest in Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), which was sold during the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase in operating income was partly offset by the absence of the contribution from Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. Asia Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 27.6 ¥ 27.4 ¥ 21.8 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 5.6 Operating Income 9.6 10.7 7.8 (1.1 ) 2.9 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 Net Income 7.9 9.3 8.0 (1.4 ) 1.3 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥27.6 billion, an increase of ¥0.2 billion from ¥27.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Organic chemicals transactions showed strong performance. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥9.6 billion, a decrease of ¥1.1 billion from ¥10.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting an increase mainly in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥7.9 billion, a decrease of ¥1.4 billion from ¥9.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥27.4 billion, a ¥5.6 billion increase from ¥21.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was attributable to the good performance in the chemical businesses at the Singapore branch; and in the steel products and chemical businesses at Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. and the other trading subsidiaries in China. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥10.7 billion, a ¥2.9 billion increase from ¥7.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The increase in gross profit was partly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses mainly at trading subsidiaries in China and a provision for doubtful receivables at a trading subsidiary in Thailand. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥9.3 billion, a ¥1.3 billion increase from ¥8.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Other Overseas Areas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 5.3 ¥ 4.9 ¥ 4.0 ¥ 0.4 ¥ 0.9 Operating Income (Loss) (0.2 ) 1.0 0.4 (1.2 ) 0.6 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 0.5 0.6 0.4 (0.1 ) 0.2 Net Income 14.4 14.3 5.8 0.1 8.5 117 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥14.4 billion, an increase of ¥0.1 billion from ¥14.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The segment’s minority interest in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) increased, while that in Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) decreased. See the relevant discussion in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment above. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥14.3 billion, an ¥8.5 billion increase from ¥5.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was due to contributions to the segment from its interests in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia), which showed strong growth in net income for the year ended March 31, 2006, as described in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment. All Other Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2007–2006) Change(2006–2005) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Profit ¥ 4.4 ¥ 7.1 ¥ 12.4 ¥ (2.7 ) ¥ (5.3 ) Operating Loss (4.3 ) (3.2 ) (0.6 ) (1.1 ) (2.6 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 0.1 0.3 0.4 (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Net Income 5.9 11.8 4.7 (5.9 ) 7.1 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The activities of this segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit in this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4.4 billion, a decrease of ¥2.7 billion from ¥7.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4.3 billion, a deterioration of ¥1.1 billion from ¥3.2 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2006. This was primarily attributable to Mitsui Bussan Trade Services Ltd. (Japan), which offers business process outsourcing services to Mitsui. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥5.9 billion, a decrease of ¥5.9 billion from ¥11.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, primarily attributable to the sales of Mitsui’s corporate welfare facilities recorded in the year ended March 31, 2006. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥7.1 billion, a ¥5.3 billion decrease from ¥12.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major reason for this decline was the sale of a domestic public golf club business. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3.2 billion, a ¥2.6 billion increase from the ¥0.6 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2005. This was primarily attributable to the above-mentioned decline in gross profit, but was partly offset by a decline in selling, general and administrative expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥11.8 billion, a ¥7.1 billion increase from ¥4.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, primarily attributable to the sales of Mitsui’s corporate welfare facilities. 118 Table of Contents Inflation Management believes that inflation did not have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting policies and estimates are considered to be critical if they are important to our financial condition and results of operations and involve estimates that require management’s subjective or significant judgment about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. For a summary of our significant accounting policies including the critical accounting policies discussed below, please see Note 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the estimates that are based on historical experiences and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these evaluations form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions. The following items require significant management judgments and estimates. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The amount of impairment losses of long-lived assets, other than goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization, for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and the balance of the long-lived assets, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, as of the end of March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Long-lived assets ¥ 1,304.5 ¥ 1,019.9 ¥ 906.3 Impairment loss 17.8 24.3 14.1 Impairment losses of long-lived assets had a material impact on our net income for recent years. These losses were mainly due to the declining profitability resulting from deterioration of business environment and the reorganization of business structure and distribution bases owned by our subsidiaries. See “Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets” line-by-line explanation in “RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” for additional information. The major component of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2007 was a loss on intangible assets at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) due to deterioration of operating environment such as intensifying competition in both beverage and beverage materials. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. used a discounted future cash flow method based on its internal budget for evaluation of fair value of the intangible assets. We recognize that the estimation and assumption for this impairment loss has been specific to Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd., and we do not expect such estimation and assumption to have a material impact on our future operating results other than those of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Our long-lived assets to be held and used or to be disposed of other than by sale are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. This review is performed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the aggregate amount of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows (“impairment analysis”). If the carrying value of the asset is greater than the aggregate amount of undiscounted future cash flows, then the asset is considered impaired, and an impairment loss is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. The fair value of the asset is calculated as present value of the future cash flows that are expected from the asset. 119 Table of Contents Cash flow projections used in our impairment analysis and fair value calculations are based on the business plan authorized by our management or, if this is not available, on the operating plan reflecting the most recent condition of the long-lived asset. In these plans, we assume, for example, that the most recent selling prices of the real estate in the surrounding areas will reasonably continue in the future, and estimate the sales prices of the products from facilities and equipment for the certain future period based on the average price of the equivalent length of period in the past or on the analysts’ reports. As for the discount rate used in fair value calculations, when expected variations of cash flows are not considered in the cash flow estimate, a discount rate which includes the risk factor for the cash flow deviation, is used. Assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value are incorporated in the discount rate when such information is available. When such information is not available, an expected internal rate of return used for management purpose or a weighted average cost of capital of a company that owns the long-lived asset, whichever is higher, is also considered for the discounted cash flow calculation. Factors to be considered when estimating future cash flows and determining discount rates vary for each long-lived asset because of the difference in nature of the assets and in operating circumstances, such as location, owner, operator, profitability and other factors. Management believes that the estimates of future cash flows and the determination of discount rates and fair value are reasonable; however, changes in estimates resulting in lower future cash flows and fair value due to unforeseen changes in business assumptions could negatively affect the valuations of those long-lived assets. Allowance for Doubtful Receivables Since we are a general trading company, trade receivables represent a large portion of our total assets, and therefore, the accounting estimates used to establish an allowance for doubtful receivables are critical. When we deem it is probable that we will be unable to collect amounts that are contractually due to us for certain large loan receivables, the specific loan is reviewed for impairment. Factors considered in assessing collectibility include length of period overdue, financial condition of the debtor, requests for debt restructuring and fillings for bankruptcy. An impairment loss for a specific loan deemed to be impaired, as specifically determined under SFAS No.114 and amended by SFAS No. 118, “Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 15,” is measured based on the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate or the fair value of collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The expected cash flows from assets and liabilities of the debtor and the fair value of collateral are determined mainly based on an evaluation of independent real estate appraisers, publicly available indication of the real estate price, market price of financial assets and liabilities, guarantors’ financial condition and other factors. The recoverable amounts are reviewed on a quarterly basis and if necessary, an additional allowance is established. See Note 7, “ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL RECEIVABLES,” for impaired loan amounts and the respective allowance amounts. In addition to the above, an allowance for doubtful receivables is recognized for probable losses inherent in receivables not specifically deemed to be impaired. The amount of allowance is the amount judged to be adequate based primarily on our credit loss experiences and an evaluation of potential losses on the receivables, considering various factors, including current economic condition and financial condition of the debtors. We review the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful receivables by assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying value over the applicable collateral value. A receivable with an estimated collateral value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable default rate is determined by a customer’s credit rating that is identified for each customer based on our financial analysis. The default rate of each credit rating is determined based on our historical experiences. 120 Table of Contents Management believes that the estimates of the future cash flows, the fair value of collateral, the credit rating of customers and the corresponding default rate are reasonable; however, changes in estimates resulting in lower future cash flows and fair value of the collateral, due to unforeseen changes in business assumptions, or drastic increases in default rates based on negative changes in economic condition could negatively affect the valuations of related receivables. Impairment of Investment Securities An impairment of investment securities is charged to earnings when a decline in fair value below cost is deemed to be other than temporary. The impairment of investment equity securities charged to earnings for recent fiscal years had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the cost of marketable and non-marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and the impairment loss for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: Billions of Yen Year ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Cost Impairmentloss Cost Impairmentloss Cost Impairmentloss Marketable equity securities ¥ 396.0 ¥ 3.1 ¥ 275.3 ¥ 1.8 ¥ 191.0 ¥ 0.6 Non-marketable equity securities 316.2 8.6 249.0 8.8 214.1 15.9 Total ¥ 712.2 ¥ 11.7 ¥ 524.3 ¥ 10.6 ¥ 405.1 ¥ 16.5 Management principally recognizes that a 50% or more decline in fair value of a security leads to the conclusion that the security has an other-than-temporary impairment. If the decline is less than 50%, various factors, such as the extent to which the cost exceeds the market value, the duration of the market decline, our intention and ability to hold the investment until its market price recovery and the financial conditions of the investee, are considered in concluding if the decline is temporary or not. As of March 31, 2007, there was no individual marketable security that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for one year or more. The aggregate unrealized loss amount of the marketable securities (approximately 25 issuers) that had been in continuous unrealized loss positions for less than one year and had severity of decline of fair value below cost ranging from 3% to 21% was ¥0.6 billion. But, considering the combination of length of time that fair values have been below cost, the extent of decline and the financial condition of the investees, we expect that their fair values will recover above their costs while we hold these investments. For non-marketable securities, fair value of an investment is generally determined based on our equity in a net amount of the fair value of investee’s assets and liabilities. In addition, where future business plans formally adopted by management of the entities are available and when deemed appropriate, discounted future cash flow method is used to determine the fair value of the non-marketable equity securities. The discount rate reflects risk factors for the cash flow deviation from the future business plans and assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value when the information is available and appropriate. However, there are investments that are not evaluated for impairment because no event or change in circumstances that may have had a significant adverse effect on the fair value was identified. See Note 5, “MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS,” for further discussion. Management believes that the criteria for evaluating the significance of the decline in fair value are reasonable and that as long as the economic conditions continue to improve, the amount of impairment losses in investment securities will continue to decrease in the near future. However, changes in the securities market or circumstances of each individual investment due to unforeseen changes in economic and business conditions could affect the valuation of the investment securities. 121 Table of Contents Pension Benefit Costs Employee pension benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions, including discount, retirement, and mortality rates, which are based on current statistical data, as well as the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and other factors. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the difference between actual results and the assumptions is accumulated and amortized to expenses over future periods and, therefore, generally affects the recognized costs in future periods. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate; however, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our future pension costs and obligations. We determine the discount rates each year as of the measurement date, based on a review of interest rates associated with long-term Japanese government bonds or high-quality fixed-income corporate bonds. The discount rates determined on each measurement date are used to calculate the benefit obligation as of that date, and are also used to calculate the net periodic pension costs for the upcoming plan year. Mitsui determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets based on the weighted-average rate of return computed by using the expected long-term rate of return on each asset class, which is derived from an extensive study conducted by investment advisors and actuaries on a periodic basis, and the target allocations for each asset class. The study includes a review of anticipated future performance with market analysis of individual asset classes, and also gives appropriate consideration to actual historical returns achieved by the plans. The subsidiaries determine the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets mainly based on the expectations for future returns by investment advisors and actuaries. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions for Mitsui’s pension plans: Billions of Yen Impact of change inassumption on NPPCfor the year endingMarch 31, 2008 Impact of change inassumption on PBOas of March 31, 2007 50 basis point decrease in discount rate ¥ (0.1 ) ¥ 15.6 50 basis point increase in discount rate 0.3 (14.6 ) 50 basis point decrease in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 1.3 — 50 basis point increase in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (1.3 ) — See Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES,” for further discussion about the estimates and assumptions on PBO and NPPC. Tax Asset Valuation We classify subsidiaries and associated companies into the following five categories and evaluate realizability of deferred tax assets by each category. The valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets is established for the amount determined to be unrealizable. First category The companies, which constantly generate sufficient taxable income every year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of each fiscal year, and no significant change exists or is expected in the business environment. For this category, we view all deferred tax asset amounts as realizable. Second category The companies with stable operating results in the past years (approximately in the last three years), but do not generate sufficient taxable income in the current year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of the fiscal year. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income in the future is determined to be realizable. 122 Table of Contents Third category The companies with unstable operating results in the past years, and do not generate sufficient taxable income in the current year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of the fiscal year. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within a reasonable estimation period is determined to be realizable. Fourth category The companies, which have significant amounts of tax loss carryforwards at the end of the fiscal year, have experienced the expiration of a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards in the past three years, or will fail to utilize a significant amount of tax loss carryforward up to the expiration date in the current period. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable with a high degree of certainty based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within the next fiscal year is determined to be realizable. If the tax loss carryforward results from a non-recurring and unusual event such as a significant restructuring of the business or a change in law or regulation, and the companies otherwise consistently generate taxable income, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within a reasonable estimation period is determined to be realizable. Fifth category The companies, which recorded a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards for each of the past three years and are expected to record a significant tax loss in the current year as well. For this category, no deferred tax assets are determined to be realizable. For Mitsui, the realizability of deferred tax assets is determined based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, including all currently available information regarding tax deductibility on future years and ability to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the loss carryforward. Management believes it is more likely than not that all of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will be realized. However, the amount of realizable net deferred tax assets may change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are changed or if statutory tax rates are changed. See Note 21, “INCOME TAXES,” for further discussion about the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance. New Accounting Standards Employers’ accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).” SFAS No. 158 requires the recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit plan as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and the recognition of changes in that funded status in comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. SFAS No. 158 also requires an entity to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of an entity’s year-end statement of financial position, with limited exceptions. During the year ended March 31, 2007, we adopted the recognition and related disclosure provisions of this statement. See Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES” for the effect of adoption of these provisions. The measurement date provisions are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The effect of adoption of these provisions on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. 123 Table of Contents Accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140.” One of the amendments to SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140 is that SFAS No. 155 permits an entity to elect fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument in its entirety with changes in fair value recognized in earnings, in which the hybrid financial instrument contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a remeasurement event occurring after the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Accounting for servicing of financial assets In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, “Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140.” SFAS No. 156 requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable, and permits an entity to choose either the amortization method or the fair value measurement method for subsequent measurement of each class of separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. SFAS No. 156 is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Fair value measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements.” SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim period within those fiscal years. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Accounting for uncertainty in income taxes In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of all tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The effect of adoption of this interpretation on our financial position and results of operations is expected to be immaterial. 124 Table of Contents Fair value option In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities—including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.” SFAS No. 159 permits an entity to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value. An entity will report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures are defined in the SEC regulations as financial measures that either exclude or include amounts that are not excluded from or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio We refer to “Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“Net DER”) in this Liquidity and Capital Resources and elsewhere in this annual report. Net DER is comprised of “net interest bearing debt” divided by shareholders’ equity. “Net interest bearing debt” is defined as adjusted interest bearing debt, defined below, less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits. Our interest bearing debt primarily consists of long-term debt. As discussed in “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives,” to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations in financial markets, currently we hold a relatively high level of cash and cash equivalents reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. Under this policy, Net DER is a useful internal measure for our management to review the balance between: • our capacity to meet debt repayments; and • leverage to improve return on equity in our capital structure. To calculate our adjusted interest bearing debt, the followings balances are excluded: • capital lease obligations; and • SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment. Management therefore believes that using Net DER is useful for the readers especially when comparing it with the same analysis done by other general trading companies. Elimination of the SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment is made because Japanese investors usually evaluate Net DER of other general trading companies in this manner. This calculation does not recognize the fact that cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may not be completely available for debt repayments because some amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may be required for operational needs including contractual obligations or capital expenditures. 125 Table of Contents “Net interest bearing debt” and “Net DER” are presented in the table below. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2007 2006 Short-term debt ¥ 658.7 ¥ 540.8 Long-term debt 3,259.4 3,011.9 Less eliminating factors included in long-term debt: Capital lease obligations (24.9 ) (25.7 ) Less SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment 11.8 37.7 Adjusted interest bearing debt 3,905.0 3,564.7 Less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits (806.6 ) (734.1 ) Net interest bearing debt ¥ 3,098.4 ¥ 2,830.6 Shareholders’ equity ¥ 2,110.3 ¥ 1,677.9 Net DER (times) 1.47 1.69 The most directly comparable GAAP measure is considered to be “Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“DER”). However, this ratio measures gross debt relative to equity, and does not measure changes in cash position. Adjusted DER (times) 1.85 2.13 (defined as adjusted interest bearing debt divided by shareholders’ equity) Free Cash Flow We define “free cash flow” as the sum of net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities. Management believes that such indicator is useful to investors, to measure available net cash for investment in strategic opportunities and/or debt repayment, or magnitude of reliance on borrowing to procure funds for strategic investments. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. The following table shows a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 239.3 ¥ 146.4 ¥ 200.1 Net cash used in investing activities (418.0 ) (347.3 ) (224.0 ) Free cash flow ¥ (178.7 ) ¥ (200.9 ) ¥ (23.9 ) Finance and Liquidity Management Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives Our basic funding policy is to secure stable sources of funds to maintain adequate liquidity and financing to satisfy capital requirements for our operations and to maintain the strength of our balance sheet. In order to achieve our objectives, our principal strategy is to obtain long-term funds (those with maturities of around 10 years) from financial institutions, including insurance companies and banks, and through the issuance of corporate bonds. In addition, we utilize financing programs provided by government financing agencies for various projects to obtain long-term financing. Another strategy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations 126 Table of Contents in financial markets. We hold cash and cash equivalents as liquidity sources, which consist mainly of highly-liquid and highly-rated short-term financial instruments and deposits. We aim to maintain the proper level of cash and cash equivalents, reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. In principle, wholly owned domestic subsidiaries do not individually raise their funds in financial markets or borrow from banks, but instead use a cash management service provided by Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. (Japan), our financing subsidiary. The same policy and practices have been extended to wholly owned overseas subsidiaries through our regional financing subsidiaries, which centralizes the fund raising function and promotes efficient use of funds. Approximately 81% of total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2007 (excluding SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment) was raised by Mitsui and the above-mentioned financing subsidiaries as in-house banking bases. Funding Sources We borrow funds based on our longstanding relations with financial institutions in Japan and overseas, borrow from government financing agencies, and also utilize project financing. In addition to these funding sources, Mitsui maintains a ¥200 billion debt shelf-registration and a ¥2,400 billion commercial paper program in Japan. Similarly, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V., Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd. and Mitsui & Co., Ltd. have arranged a joint Euro medium-term note (“MTN”) program of U.S.$5 billion. Mitsui guarantees notes issued by these overseas subsidiaries. For raising short-term funds, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. has a U.S.$1.5 billion U.S. domestic commercial paper program, and we have made arrangements for commercial paper programs in some other overseas markets. Unused lines of credit, for short-term financing outside of Japan, aggregated ¥626.6 billion at March 31, 2007. Certain overseas subsidiaries compensate banks for these facilities in the form of commitment fees, which were not material in each of the past three years. Taking advantage of a favorable financial market environment, during the year ended March 31, 2007, we increased long-term funding by borrowing from financial institutions and issuing bonds in Japan and MTNs in overseas markets for debt retirement and for working capital requirements. There were five bond issues that raised ¥90.0 billion in total (with maturity of 10–12 years) under the shelf-registration in Japan during the year ended March 31, 2007. As a result, long-term debt accounted for approximately 83% of total debt as of March 31, 2007, which we regard as a satisfactory level from the viewpoint of our financial policies. Approximately 73% of the total of short-term and long-term debt as of March 31, 2007 was denominated in Japanese yen and the rest was primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We employ certain derivative financial instruments, which include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts, to manage financial exposures resulting from our financing activities. Currency swap agreements and foreign exchange forward contracts are used to manage risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The principal financial derivative instruments that are employed to manage interest rate risk exposure are interest rate swap agreements. A large part of such agreements are used for fair value hedging of fixed rate interest bearing debt, including fixed interest rate borrowing, bonds and notes, converting into floating interest rates based on the three-month or six-month LIBOR. The interest rates on approximately 69% of Mitsui’s long-term debt, other than borrowings for certain projects, were floating after taking into account interest rate swap arrangements as of March 31, 2007. See Note 26, “DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES,” for further description of our risk management policies. Credit Ratings To facilitate access to funds from capital markets, Mitsui and certain of our overseas trading or financing subsidiaries have obtained ratings for their commercial paper (short-term debt) and long-term unsecured senior 127 Table of Contents debt and/or long-term corporate credit from Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (“R&I”), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Standard and Poor’s Services (“S&P”). Medium-term note program rating has also been given for the above-mentioned MTN program by R&I and Moody’s. The ratings as of June 2007 were as follows: R&I Moody’s S&P Commercial Paper rating a-1+ P-1 A-1 Long-term corporate credit rating AA- – A Long-term unsecured senior debt rating AA- A2* – Medium-term note program rating AA- A2 – * Rating for long-term unsecured notes issued under the MTN program S&P in February 2006 raised our long-term credit rating to “A” from “A-” and short-term credit rating to “A-1” from “A-2.” S&P cited the following factors for the change in ratings: • increase in shareholders’ equity through accumulation of retained earnings as well as public offering; • improvement in profit base and asset quality through refinements in investment and withdrawal decisions for operations; and • enhancement of risk management system. In addition, S&P in May 2007 revised to positive from stable its outlook on the long-term corporate credit rating based on the level of improvement in the balance between capital and risk assets by capital accumulation. Mitsui intends to maintain and improve its current credit ratings by enhancing its earnings and risk management. Credit ratings are an assessment by the rating agencies of the credit risks associated with us and are based on information provided by us and other sources that the rating agencies consider reliable. Lower ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. Credit ratings do not constitute a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to change or withdrawal by each of the rating agencies at any time. As rating agencies may have different criteria in evaluating the risk associated with a company, you should evaluate each rating independently of other ratings. Ratings may be changed without pre-notice at any time. Liquidity Management For the interest rate structure and the maturity profile of our outstanding debt, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM, LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES.” Cash and cash equivalents were ¥800.0 billion, ¥697.1 billion and ¥791.8 billion as of March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of March 31, 2007, net interest bearing debt (interest bearing debt less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits) was ¥3,098.4 billion, an increase of ¥267.8 billion from ¥2,830.6 billion as of March 31, 2006. However, the Net DER improved from 1.69 as of March 31, 2006 to 1.47 as of March 31, 2007. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities remained comparable from 135.2% as of March 31, 2006 to 133.2% as of March 31, 2007. The increases in investments and other non-current assets are financed mainly by the increases in long-term debt. 128 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2007, we had given guarantees for obligations of various third parties and associated companies. These guarantees are not expected to require substantial use of our capital resources. We have not had any material payment requirements resulting from these guarantees for the past three years. For details on guarantees issued by us, see Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” With the exception of project financing and non-recourse financing, it is our policy not to conclude agreements for important financial transactions with financial institutions that contain additional debt restriction clauses that may cause acceleration of our obligations, including debt incurrence restrictions, negative pledges, restrictions on dividend payments and various financial ratio limits, and there are no material financial covenants in the agreements undertaken. Assuming that our subsidiaries have sufficient distributable net assets or retained earnings as provided under the local laws of the relevant jurisdictions, there are no material contractual or legal restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. There are no material economic restrictions on payments of dividends, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries other than general withholding or other taxes calculated at the rates determined by the local tax laws of the relevant jurisdictions. We held ¥800.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2007 in comparison to ¥161.4 billion of outstanding debt with current maturities including commercial paper, MTNs and bonds. Of the cash and cash equivalents, approximately 56% was held by Mitsui and approximately 95% was denominated in Japanese yen. We believe that we maintain sufficient liquidity to satisfy our working capital and debt-service requirements for the foreseeable future through existing cash and cash equivalents and time deposits, the sales of certain assets in parallel with outside borrowings from financial institutions, as well as, the issuance of bonds and notes. We plan to contribute ¥8.7 billion to our defined-benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2008. This cash requirement will be managed under our funding policy mentioned above. Investment Plans and Financial Policies of the Medium-Term Management Outlook In May 2006, under our Medium-term Management Outlook, we announced that we planned approximately ¥800 billion expenditure for investments in associated companies, and property and equipment during the two years ending March 31, 2007 and 2008, as well as ¥100 to 200 billion divestiture of existing assets. For the year ended March 31, 2007, net cash used in investing activities was ¥418.0 billion, among which ¥504.2 billion was used in the operating segments other than All Other Segment(*) and Adjustments and Eliminations. We recognize that we have implemented the investment plan ahead of the forecast in May 2006. As of the issuing date of this annual report, we forecast net cash used in investing activities for the year ending March 31, 2008 to be approximately ¥200 billion. Forecasted total investing cash outflows are ¥800 billion—excluding those for liquidity management—reflecting a long list of prospective investment opportunities in mineral resources and energy businesses and others. At the same time, forecasted total cash inflows from divestiture of assets are ¥600 billion—also excluding those for liquidity management. In April 2007, we completed collections of U.S.$1,862.5 million through the transfer of part of our share in the Sakhalin II project and U.S.$981 million through the sale of all our stake in Sesa Goa Limited (India); and came to an agreement to collect approximately U.S.$300 million through the divestiture of all oil and gas interests at Wandoo Petroleum Pty Limited (Australia). All operating segments are proactively seeking opportunities for divesting existing assets which no longer has strategic meanings. (*) Financial services from and to Mitsui and its subsidiaries referred to in “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives” and “Liquidity Management” above are provided by the All Other Segment. Acquisitions of and proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities as investing activities in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows are mostly conducted by the All Other Segment which includes the units in charge of corporate financing and liquidity management as discussed in “Funding Sources.” 129 Table of Contents Considering the above-mentioned ¥200 billion of net cash used in investing activities as well as increase of shareholders’ equity from operating activities, we forecast that total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2008 will remain at the same level as March 31, 2007. We will procure funds for refinance by direct financing from capital markets and fund raising—including project finance—from the private sector and government financing agencies, especially paying attention to the trend of Japanese yen interest rate. We also forecast a Net DER of around 1.3 as of March 31, 2008. Many of the projects in the investment plan involve bidding. The outcome of bidding will have an effect on our actual cash flows and financial condition for the year ending March 31, 2008. Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Total assets as of March 31, 2007 were ¥9,813.3 billion, an increase of ¥1,239.7 billion from ¥8,573.6 billion as of March 31, 2006. Current assets as of March 31, 2007 were ¥5,073.8 billion, an increase of ¥327.0 billion from ¥4,746.8 billion as of March 31, 2006 due to increases in the following items: • Cash and cash equivalents increased by ¥102.9 billion, mainly at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) which was acquired during the year ended March 31, 2007 and at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) which recorded increased sales. • Trade receivables—accounts increased by ¥202.5 billion, mainly in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment boosted by higher market prices of commodities. Total current liabilities as of March 31, 2007 were ¥3,810.2 billion, an increase of ¥299.3 billion from ¥3,510.9 billion as of March 31, 2006. The main factors were as follows: • Short-term debt increased by ¥117.9 billion mainly at overseas financial subsidiaries. • Trade payables—accounts increased by ¥204.6 billion corresponding to the above-mentioned increase in trade receivables—accounts. As a result, working capital, or current assets minus current liabilities, as of March 31, 2007 was ¥1,263.6 billion, a ¥27.7 billion increase from ¥1,235.9 billion as of March 31, 2006. The sum of total investments and non-current receivables, property and equipment—at cost, intangible assets less accumulated amortization, deferred tax assets—non current and other assets totaled ¥4,739.5 billion as of March 31, 2007, a ¥912.8 billion increase from ¥3,826.7 billion as of March 31, 2006, mainly due to the following factors: • Within total investments and non-current receivables, investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2007 were ¥1,587.6 billion, a ¥287.0 billion increase from ¥1,300.6 billion as of March 31, 2006. Major components were: — the investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), a project implementing vehicle of the Sakhalin II project, for ¥110.0 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥2.2 billion) in the Energy Segment; — the acquisition of gas distribution business in Brazil for ¥30.7 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥3.3 billion) in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; — the acquisition of shares in Asahi Tec Corporation (Japan), an automobile parts manufacturer, for ¥11.8 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; — the investment in Greenfield Energy Center LP (Canada), an independent power producer, for ¥11.4 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; — the acquisition of shares in Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan), a telemarketing company, for ¥10.5 billion in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment; and 130 Table of Contents — the acquisition of shares of Toyo Engineering Corporation (Japan), a plant engineering company, for ¥10.3 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. In addition to the above-mentioned increases, there were increases which do not involve cash outflow such as: — increases in equity in earnings (before tax effect) of ¥102.6 billion (net of ¥110.1 billion dividends received from associated companies); — a ¥49.1 billion net improvement in foreign exchange translation cumulative adjustments; and — a decrease of ¥93.1 billion as Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., formerly an associated company, became a subsidiary and was consolidated line by line, while ¥38.0 billion investments in associated companies held by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. were newly recorded; The following table shows the details of investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2007 and 2006 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, Change 2007 2006 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 22.0 ¥ 22.8 ¥ (0.8 ) Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 258.3 221.8 36.5 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 383.2 290.4 92.8 Chemical 46.2 49.5 (3.3 ) Energy 564.8 483.5 81.3 Foods & Retail 57.0 54.8 2.2 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 112.7 93.9 18.8 Logistics & Financial Markets 33.9 26.0 7.9 Americas 39.0 9.7 29.3 Europe 14.9 13.3 1.6 Asia 8.7 3.9 4.8 Other Overseas Areas 35.5 20.0 15.5 Total 1,576.2 1,289.6 286.6 All Other 10.5 9.3 1.2 Adjustments and Eliminations 0.9 1.7 (0.8 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 1,587.6 ¥ 1,300.6 ¥ 287.0 131 Table of Contents • Other investments as of March 31, 2007 were ¥1,238.9 billion, a ¥303.2 billion increase from ¥935.7 billion as of March 31, 2006. This is because: — the principal expenditures were purchases of shares in Recruit Co., Ltd., which provides human resources and information services in Japan, for ¥27.0 billion and investment in a partnership which owns Skylark Co., Ltd., a major restaurant chain in Japan, for ¥10.0 billion; — there were significant transactions that did not involve cash outflow. Investment in shares in INPEX Holdings Inc., a Japanese oil and gas exploration and producing company, of ¥180.3 billion held by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. was recorded as a result of the acquisition of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., and investment in shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan) of ¥40.5 billion was recorded, which was previously recorded as an associated company; and — there were no significant net movements in unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities (excluding the effect from the above-mentioned INPEX Holdings Inc. and Toho Titanium Co., Ltd.). • Property leased to others—at cost, less accumulated depreciation as of March 31, 2007, was ¥259.2 billion, a ¥40.6 billion increase from ¥218.6 billion as of March 31, 2006. Major factors were the acquisitions of rolling stock for ¥16.4 billion and ocean transport vessels for ¥10.3 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and real estate for ¥8.2 billion principally in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment. • Property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2007 was ¥988.3 billion, a ¥242.1 billion increase from ¥746.2 billion as of March 31, 2006. Major components were as follows: — the newly acquired oil and gas producing interest in the offshore Gulf of Mexico for ¥55.6 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥0.2 billion); — the oil and gas projects of Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand and an oil and gas project in Oman in total for ¥42.0 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥3.0 billion); — the iron ore and coal mining projects in Australia for ¥66.5 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥20.1 billion); and 132 Table of Contents — the Onslow salt field in Australia for ¥11.1 billion (including effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥0.6 billion). In addition, property and equipment valued at ¥62.0 billion at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. was newly recorded as of March 31, 2007. The following table shows the details of property leased to others—at cost and property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2007 and 2006 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2007 2006 Change Iron & Steel Products ¥ 22.9 ¥ 23.4 ¥ (0.5 ) Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 215.0 147.0 68.0 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 142.2 102.5 39.7 Chemical 71.9 60.7 11.2 Energy 351.6 180.3 171.3 Foods & Retail 62.5 68.5 (6.0 ) Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 103.2 94.6 8.6 Logistics & Financial Markets 60.7 58.6 2.1 Americas 40.4 48.1 (7.7 ) Europe 11.5 11.8 (0.3 ) Asia 5.5 5.3 0.2 Other Overseas Areas 1.1 1.1 0.0 Total 1,088.5 801.9 286.6 All Other 25.8 23.2 2.6 Adjustments and Eliminations 133.2 139.7 (6.5 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 1,247.5 ¥ 964.8 ¥ 282.7 133 Table of Contents Long-term debt, less current maturities as of March 31, 2007 was ¥2,887.5 billion, an increase by ¥228.8 billion from ¥2,658.7 billion as of March 31, 2006. This increase was primarily due to increases in borrowings from financial institutions associated with funding for various investments at Mitsui, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and ocean vessels and real estate leasing subsidiaries. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2007 was ¥2,110.3 billion, an increase of ¥432.4 billion from ¥1,677.9 billion as of March 31, 2006, primarily due to a ¥54.8 billion increase in common stock and capital surplus as a result of conversion of bonds, the increase in retained earnings of ¥248.1 billion, net improvement in foreign currency translation adjustments of ¥73.9 billion as a result of the stronger Australian dollar, U.S. dollar and Euro against Japanese yen, and net improvement in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities of ¥42.8 billion. Cash Flows Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 239.3 ¥ 146.4 ¥ 200.1 Net cash used in investing activities (418.0 ) (347.3 ) (224.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 272.3 92.3 171.3 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9.4 13.9 6.1 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ¥ 103.0 ¥ (94.7 ) ¥ 153.5 Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2007 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥239.3 billion. Major components were: • Operating income which increased steadily in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, the Energy Segment, the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and other segments; • Dividends received totaling ¥160.1 billion from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies, as well as our investments in third parties; and • Payments of ¥99.1 billion for corporate income taxes. In addition, during the year ended March 31, 2007, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, especially a significant increase in trade receivables gave a negative impact of ¥137.7 billion on cash flows from operating activities in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. Refer to the relevant discussion in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity.” Net cash provided by operating activities increased by ¥92.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 from the year ended March 31, 2006. The reasons for this increase were operating income which increased mainly in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and the Energy Segment as well as increased dividend income. 134 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥418.0 billion. The principal details are as follows: • A total of ¥222.4 billion was paid out for investments in and advances to associated companies, and proceeds of ¥34.3 billion were collected from sales of investments in and collection of advances to associated companies. As a result, net cash outflow was ¥188.1 billion. The major factors are as below: — Investment in preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) for ¥107.8 billion* in the Energy Segment; — Expenditure for Greenfield Energy Center LP (Canada) for ¥11.4 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; — Acquisition of shares in Asahi Tec Corporation (Japan) for ¥11.8 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; — Acquisition of gas distribution operations in Brazil for ¥10.3 billion* in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and — Acquisition of shares in Toyo Engineering Corporation (Japan) for ¥10.3 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. As a major sale of investment, Mitsui obtained ¥16.5 billion through the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan). • A total of ¥327.4 billion was paid for additions to property leased to others and property and equipment, and proceeds of ¥52.8 billion was provided from sales of property leased to others and property and equipment. As a result, net cash outflow was ¥274.6 billion. The major factors are as below: — Payment of ¥53.8 billion* for the acquisition of the oil and gas project in the offshore Gulf of Mexico in the Energy Segment; — Payment of ¥57.8 billion* for the acquisition of property and equipment for the iron ore and coal mining projects in Australia in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment; — Payment in total of ¥36.8 billion* for the acquisition of property and equipment for the oil and gas projects of the Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand and oil and gas project in Oman in the Energy Segment; and — Payment in total of ¥71.0 billion for additions to and proceeds of ¥18.7 billion in total from sales of rolling stock for lease in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. • A total of ¥236.8 billion was used for the acquisition of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities and other investments, and proceeds of ¥227.6 billion were received from sales of securities. As a result, net cash outflow was ¥9.2 billion. Cash outflow and inflow in connection with debt securities include payment of ¥84.1 billion for acquisition and proceeds of ¥125.0 billion from sales and redemption for the purpose of corporate fund management. Other major factors are: — Acquisition of shares of Recruit Co., Ltd. for ¥27.0 billion in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment; and — Investment in partnership which owns Skylark Co., Ltd. for ¥10.0 billion in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. * Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated into yen, based on the average foreign exchange rates throughout the fiscal year, and therefore differ from the amounts appearing in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity,” which were translated at the current rate as of March 31, 2007. 135 Table of Contents • A total of ¥11.5 billion, net of cash acquired, was used for acquisitions of subsidiaries. Major factors include acquisitions of a rolling stock leasing company, Siemens Dispolok GmbH (Germany), and a gas distribution company, Gas Participacoes Ltda. (Brazil), in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, and a salt field development company, Salt Asia Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia), in the Chemical Segment. On the other hand, there was a ¥37.3 billion positive effect, net of cash used in the acquisition, resulting from the acquisition of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. The following table shows net cash provided by (used in) investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 by operating segment. Billions of Yen Year Ended March 31, 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ (10.3 ) Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals (37.9 ) Machinery & Infrastructure Projects (166.8 ) Chemical (21.2 ) Energy (168.6 ) Foods & Retail 5.8 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication (58.7 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 0.4 Americas (26.6 ) Europe (4.6 ) Asia (1.3 ) Other Overseas Areas (14.4 ) Total (504.2 ) All Other and Adjustments and Eliminations 86.2 Consolidated Total ¥ (418.0 ) Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 increased by ¥70.7 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors in investing cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2006 included an investment of ¥83.5 billion in the preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), ¥50.0 billion in shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. and ¥35.8 billion in iron ore and coal mining projects in Australia. 136 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥272.3 billion. Major factors were as below: • Net cash inflow from short-term debt amounted to ¥70.8 billion due to increase of short-term debt at overseas financial subsidiaries. Net of proceeds from and repayments of long-term debt were ¥239.1 billion. Mitsui increased long-term corporate bonds and borrowings from financial institutions in response to the above-mentioned investing activities. • Dividend paid by Mitsui totaled ¥53.4 billion. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 increased by ¥180.0 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. We procured higher levels of short-term and long-term funds for the year ended March 31, 2007, whereas Mitsui raised ¥203.8 billion (net of stock issuance costs before taxes) from the public offering of 130 million shares in February 2006 and the third party allotment of 9.75 million shares in March 2006 for the year ended March 31, 2006. Refer to Funding Sources above, for details of our fund procurement for the year ended March 31, 2007. Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2006 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥146.4 billion. Major components were: • Operating income which increased steadily in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment, the Energy Segment and other segments; • Dividends received totaling ¥96.7 billion from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies, as well as our investments in third parties; • Payments of ¥81.5 billion for corporate income taxes; and • Payments of ¥27.5 billion for compensation and other charges related to DPF incident. In addition, during the year ended March 31, 2006, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, especially a significant increase in trade receivables gave a negative impact of ¥154.0 billion on cash flows. Refer to the relevant discussion in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity.” Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by ¥53.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 from the year ended March 31, 2005. The reasons for this decrease were as follows: • Changes in current assets and liabilities which increased by ¥157.3 billion from the year ended March 31, 2005; and • Operating income which increased by ¥77.8 billion in total, mainly attributable to a ¥35.3 billion increase in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment and a ¥16.5 billion increase in the Energy Segment. 137 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 totaled ¥347.3 billion. The principal details are as follows: • A total of ¥175.8 billion was paid for investments in and advances to associated companies, and proceeds of ¥37.6 billion from sales of investments in and collection of advances to associated companies were received, which resulted in net cash outflow of ¥138.2 billion. The major factors are as below: — Investment in preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) for ¥83.5 billion* in the Energy Segment; — Investment in IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) in connection with acquisition of the Saltend power plant for ¥13.1 billion* in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and — Investment in Thai Tap Water Supply Co. Ltd. (Thailand) for ¥10.9 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. • A total of ¥247.1 billion was paid for acquisition of property leased to others and property and equipment, and proceeds of ¥74.0 billion from sales of property leased to others and property and equipment was provided, which resulted in net cash outflow of ¥173.1 billion. The major factors include: — Payments of ¥35.8 billion for the acquisition of facilities for the development of iron ore and coal mines in Australia in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Segment. — Payment of ¥23.0 billion for the acquisition of office buildings in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment; — Payment of ¥21.8 billion* for the acquisition of property and equipment for the Enfield crude oil project in Western Australia in the Energy Segment; — Payments of ¥62.2 billion to purchase rolling stock and aircraft for lease, and proceeds of ¥44.0 billion from the sales of rolling stock and aircraft for lease in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and — Proceeds of ¥6.4 billion from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate welfare facilities. • A total of ¥190.3 billion was used for the acquisition of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities and other investments, and proceeds of ¥139.2 billion from sales of securities were received, which resulted in net cash outflow of ¥51.1 billion. Cash outflow and inflow in connection with debt securities includes payment of ¥53.5 billion for acquisition and proceeds of ¥56.2 billion from sales and redemption for the purpose of corporate fund management. Major cash outflows in connection with acquisition of financial assets were: — Acquisition of shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. for ¥50.0 billion in the Foods & Retail Segment; and — Investment in the Equatorial Guinea LNG project for ¥16.0 billion in the Energy Segment. * Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated into yen, based on the average foreign exchange rates throughout the fiscal year, and therefore differ from the amounts appearing in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity,” which were translated at the current rate as of March 31, 2006. 138 Table of Contents The following table shows the details of “Investments in and advances to associated companies” and “Additions to property leased to others and property and equipment” for the year ended March 31, 2006 by operating segment. Billions of Yen Year Ended March 31, 2006 Investments inand Advances toAssociatedCompanies Additions toProperty Leased toOthers and Propertyand Equipment Iron & Steel Products ¥ 0.8 ¥ 2.6 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 7.9 39.5 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 43.3 84.3 Chemical 0.5 10.8 Energy 89.1 39.4 Foods & Retail 0.7 10.3 Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 22.5 37.4 Logistics & Financial Markets 4.9 2.9 Americas 4.4 9.7 Europe 0.1 1.4 Asia 0.4 0.5 Other Overseas Areas 0.0 0.4 Total 174.6 239.2 All Other 1.2 1.8 Adjustments and Eliminations 0.0 6.1 Consolidated Total ¥ 175.8 ¥ 247.1 Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 increased by ¥123.3 billion from the year ended March 31, 2005. Major factors in investing cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2005 included an investment of ¥80.7 billion in the preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), ¥64.4 billion for the acquisition of mineral rights and property and equipment in the Enfield crude oil project in Western Australia and an investment of ¥62.2 billion in IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom), as well as an inflow of ¥14.5 billion from the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥92.3 billion. Major factors were as below: • Mitsui raised ¥203.8 billion (net of stock issuance costs before taxes) from the public offering and the third party allotment of shares. • Net cash flow in short-term debt decreased by ¥89.4 billion due to repayments of notes on MTN programs and commercial papers issued by Mitsui and overseas trading subsidiaries. Net of proceeds from and repayment of long-term debt was ¥10.4 billion. Mitsui increased long-term borrowings in response to the above-mentioned investing activities, while domestic and overseas financial subsidiaries repaid long-term borrowings. • Dividend paid by Mitsui totaled ¥31.6 billion. Net cash flow provided from financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2006 decreased by ¥79.0 billion from the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, there were higher levels of long-term funds procured through borrowing from financial institutions and the issuance of bonds. Refer to Funding Sources above for details of our fund procurement for the year ended March 31, 2006. 139 Table of Contents C. Research & Development For the year ended March 31, 2007, research and development (“R&D”) expenses for the various R&D activities underway totaled ¥3.9 billion, which included ¥2.3 billion in the Chemical Segment related to nanotechnology, biotechnology and life science and ¥1.0 billion in the Foods & Retail Segment. In the nanotechnology field, a key research area in the Chemical Segment, we have been developing and promoting the commercialization of ethanol separation technology using zeolite membranes, which will dramatically improve the energy efficiency of biomass ethanol production. Biomass ethanol is a renewable energy source, and as such it is being utilized all over the world as an additive for automobile gasoline and fuel for power generation, as a means of addressing the issue of global warming. By realizing improved energy efficiency in the production of biomass ethanol through the use of zeolite membranes, it is expected to contribute to reduction of CO2 emissions and improvement of the global environment. Carbon nanotubes are expected to be developed for a variety of advanced applications in the future, and we have set up a joint venture with Hodogaya Chemical Co., Ltd. to continue research and development, production and distribution of nanotubes. Some results are close to practical application. Along with this work, we are also carrying out research on related safety issues. For the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, R&D expenses were ¥5.1 billion and ¥5.6 billion respectively, including ¥3.4 billion and ¥3.9 billion expenditure by the Chemical Segment, respectively. D. Trend Information See relevant discussion elsewhere in this item. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We use off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business to further our trading, fund-raising and other activities. Categories of off-balance sheet arrangements are as follows: Guarantees The following tables summarize our guarantees as of March 31, 2007 and 2006. The maximum potential amount of future payments represents the amount without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provision or from collateral held or pledged that we could be obliged to pay if there were defaults by guaranteed parties or there were changes in an underlying which would cause triggering events under market value guarantees and indemnification contracts. Such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated losses on these guarantees and indemnifications, and they greatly exceed anticipated losses. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset our payments under guarantees. The carrying amounts of liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect our best estimate of future payments we may incur as part of fulfilling our guarantee obligations. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2007: Maximum potential amount offuture payments Recourseprovisions/collateral Carryingamount ofliabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 213 ¥ 25 ¥ 5 Performance Guarantees 25 5 0 Market Value Guarantees 58 42 — Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2006: Maximum potential amount offuture payments Recourseprovisions/collateral Carryingamount ofliabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 154 ¥ 29 ¥ 4 Performance Guarantees 33 5 0 Market Value Guarantees 75 47 — 140 Table of Contents In the furtherance of our trading activities, it is a customary practice for us to guarantee, severally or jointly with others, indebtedness of certain of our customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. As lessees in operating lease contracts, certain subsidiaries have issued residual value guarantees of leased ocean transport vessels, and on the date of expiration of operating lease contracts, such subsidiaries will either purchase the leased assets at a fixed price or will be responsible for making up any shortfall between the actual sales price and the guaranteed value. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (revised December 2003)-an Interpretation of ARB No. 51” on December 31, 2003, we consolidated ¥20.3 billion and ¥ 20.8 billion of total assets related to certain ocean transport vessels entities at March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This information is provided in Note 24, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Sales of Trade Receivables At March 31, 2007 and 2006, the outstanding amounts of off-balance sheet arrangements in which certain trade receivables are sold to third parties were immaterial. Variable Interest Entities We are involved with and have significant variable interests in a number of variable interest entities (“VIEs”) that are not consolidated because we are not the primary beneficiary, but in which we have significant variable interests. These VIEs mainly engage in leasing and financing activities. Further information is provided in Note 24, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Commitments on Deferred Payments We had financing commitments totaling ¥2.3 billion at March 31, 2007, principally for financing, on a deferred-payment basis, the cost of ocean transport vessels and equipment to be purchased by our customers. We had no financing commitments at March 31, 2006. Further information is provided in Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations The following table provides our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2007 and payment due by period of these contractual obligations: Billions of Yen Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Balance as ofMarch 31, 2007 March2008 March2010 March2012 After March 2012 Long-Term Debt ¥ 3,531 ¥ 334 ¥ 762 ¥ 619 ¥ 1,816 Capital Lease Obligations 26 5 11 6 4 Operating Leases 174 37 57 31 49 Purchase Obligations 3,020 713 1,016 677 614 Capital Expenditure Commitments 60 57 3 0 0 Total ¥ 6,811 ¥ 1,146 ¥ 1,849 ¥ 1,333 ¥ 2,483 The amounts of “Long-Term Debt” include bank borrowings, bonds and long-term trade payables, excluding the effect of the SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment and capital lease obligations (present value of net minimum lease payments). “Capital Lease Obligations “ represents the schedule of payments for future minimum lease payments. “Operating Leases” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum rentals. Minimum 141 Table of Contents rental payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of ¥63.7 billion due in the future under noncancelable subleases. “Purchase Obligations” represents the schedule of payments for long-term purchase obligations, net of advance payments of ¥113 billion made to suppliers as of March 31, 2007. The purchased items are principally ocean transport vessels, oil products, chemical materials, metals and machinery and equipment, either at fixed prices or at basic purchase prices adjustable to the market. In general, our customers, primarily large Japanese industrial companies and shipping firms, are also parties to the contracts or by separate agreements and are committed to purchase the items from us. “Capital Expenditure Commitments” represents the unpaid amounts of total contracts for the acquisition of plant and equipment in relation to iron ore and coal mining projects and oil producing project at the reporting date but not recognized in the financial statements. The total ¥60 billion includes ¥35 billion for coal mining projects, ¥10 billion for iron ore mining projects. The remaining ¥15 billion represents the additional work program at the Enfield Oil Project in Offshore Australia. The expenditures for other oil and gas producing projects under development and construction of which payment due dates will be fixed reflecting progress of construction are not included. See also “TABLE5. STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATED TO PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES” of “SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES (UNAUDITED).” In addition to the above, we plan to contribute ¥8.7 billion to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2008. The table above excludes estimated interest payments on debt and estimated payments under interest swap. Total cash paid for interest during the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥96.2 billion. For additional information regarding long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating leases and purchase obligations, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM, LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES,” Note 8, “LEASES,” and Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES,” respectively. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. A. Directors and Senior Management. We are managed by a Board of Directors and Executive Officers. As of June 30, 2007, we have thirteen Directors and forty-one Executive Officers including eight of whom are also Directors. In accordance with Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation, each Director was elected for a term of one year. Each Executive Officer has been appointed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is our decision-making body. The Board of Directors determines our basic guidelines and policies by establishing our corporate strategy, reviewing our business plans, and supervising and monitoring the activities of our Executive Officers. The Executive Officers are responsible for the execution of our corporate activities. They must follow and enforce the general guidelines and policies established by the Board of Directors and Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation. As of June 30, 2007, Mitsui’s Executive Officers consisted of one President, five Executive Vice Presidents, five Senior Executive Managing Officers, twelve Executive Managing Officers and eighteen Managing Officers. The execution of the Directors’ functions (including their functions to supervise and monitor the activities of the Executive Officers) is audited by Corporate Auditors. Each Corporate Auditor is elected by shareholders of Mitsui at a general meeting of shareholders. As of June 30, 2007, we have seven Corporate Auditors. In performing their auditing activities, they act independently of each other while they are constituted, and act through the Board of Corporate Auditors, as the Corporate Law of Japan requires. 142 Table of Contents Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers Our Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers as of the end of June 2007 were: Directors Name Position Nobuo Ohashi Chairman and Director Shoei Utsuda Representative Director Hiroshi Tada Representative Director Kazuya Imai Representative Director Toshihiro Soejima Representative Director Motokazu Yoshida Representative Director Hiroshi Ito Representative Director Yoshiyuki Izawa Representative Director Junichi Matsumoto Representative Director Akishige Okada(1) Director Nobuko Matsubara(1) Director Ikujiro Nonaka(1) Director Hiroshi Hirabayashi(1) Director (1) Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi are external directors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” Corporate Auditors Name Position Tasuku Kondo(2) Corporate Auditor Satoru Miura(2) Corporate Auditor Motonori Murakami (2) Corporate Auditor Ko Matsukata(3) Corporate Auditor Yasutaka Okamura(3) Corporate Auditor Hideharu Kadowaki(3) Corporate Auditor Naoto Nakamura(3) Corporate Auditor (2) Mr. Tasuku Kondo, Mr. Satoru Miura and Mr. Motonori Murakami are full-time Corporate Auditors. (3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki and Mr. Naoto Nakamura are external Corporate Auditors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” 143 Table of Contents Executive Officers Name Title and Principal Position Shoei Utsuda President and Chief Executive Officer; Chairman, Internal Controls Committee Gempachiro Aihara Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer, Asia Pacific Business Unit Hiroshi Tada Executive Vice President; Iron & Steel Products Business Unit; Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit; Energy Business Unit I; Energy Business Unit II Yasunori Yokote Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer, Americas Business Unit Kazuya Imai Executive Vice President; Chief Financial Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Investor Relations Division, Investment Administration Division, First Business Process Control Division, Second Business Process Control Division, Third Business Process Control Division, Accounting Division, Finance Division, Credit Risk Management Division, Market Risk Management Division, Financial Planning Division); Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters; Chairman, Disclosure Committee; Director, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. Toshihiro Soejima Executive Vice President; Infrastructure Projects Business Unit; Motor Vehicles Business Unit; Marine & Aerospace Business Unit; Financial Markets Business Unit; Transportation Logistics Business Unit Motokazu Yoshida Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Information Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Information Strategic Planning Division, Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Corporate Communication Division, CSR Promotion Division); New Business Promotion; Environmental Matters; Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters; Chairman, CSR Promotion Committee Ken Abe Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit Hiroshi Ito Senior Executive Managing Officer; First Consumer Service Business Unit; Second Consumer Service Business Unit; Foods & Retail Business Unit; IT Business Unit; Director, Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. Yoshiyuki Izawa Senior Executive Managing Officer; First Chemicals Business Unit; Second Chemicals Business Unit; Domestic Offices and Branches; Director, Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC; Chairman, Portfolio Management Committee Junichi Matsumoto Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; Chief Privacy Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Secretariat, Corporate Auditor Division, Human Resources & General Affairs Division, Legal Division, Logistics Management Division); Business Continuity Plan Management; Chairman, Compliance Committee Takao Sunami Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit Shunichi Miyazaki Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Internal Auditing Division Shinjiro Ogawa Executive Managing Officer; Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China 144 Table of Contents Name Title and Principal Position Toshimasa Furukawa Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Jitsuro Terashima Executive Managing Officer; President & CEO, Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Koji Nakamura Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Osaka Office Kenichi Yamamoto Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, First Consumer Service Business Unit Toshio Awata Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Nagoya Office Kiyotaka Watanabe Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Masaaki Fujita Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Foods & Retail Business Unit Junichi Mizonoue Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, second Chemicals Business Unit Takao Omae Executive Managing Officer; President, Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. Masaaki Murakami Managing Officer; President, Mitsui & Co. Korea Ltd. Norinao Iio Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Energy Business Unit II Osamu Koyama Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Americas Business Unit Terukazu Okahashi Managing Officer; Deputy General Manager, Osaka Office Osamu Takahashi Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, IT Business Unit Hideyo Hayakawa Managing Officer; General Manager, Legal Division Hiraku Shimomaki Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit, President, Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH Shigeru Hanagata Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Motor Vehicles Business Unit Masami Iijima Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Seiichi Tanaka Managing Officer; General Manager, Human Resources & General Affairs Division Masayoshi Komai Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China; Managing Director, Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. Katsumi Ogawa Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Financial Markets Business Unit Akio Yamamoto Managing Officer; President, Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Yoshinori Setoyama Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, First Chemicals Business Unit Noriaki Sakamoto Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Americas Business Unit Masahiko Okamura Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Second Consumer Service Business Unit Fuminobu Kawashima Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Energy Business Unit I Masaaki Iida Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Transportation Logistics Business Unit 145 Table of Contents The date of birth, the current position and the prior positions of our Directors and Corporate Auditors is provided below. Directors Name Nobuo Ohashi Date of Birth September 13, 1938 Current Position Chairman and Director (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 1994 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Seoul Branch) • 1996 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit • 1997 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit • 1998 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 1999 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2000 Representative Director, Executive Vice President • 2002/4 Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Group President of Consumer Products & Services Group • 2002/10 Chairman and Representative Director Name Shoei Utsuda Date of Birth February 12, 1943 Current Position President and Chief Executive Officer, Representative Director (since October 1, 2002) Prior Positions • 1997 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Machinery, Information Industries Administrative Division) • 1998 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit • 2000 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2002/4 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Strategic Officer, Responsible for Administrative Division Name Hiroshi Tada Date of Birth March 3, 1945 Current Position Executive Vice President, Representative Director (since April 1, 2006) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit) • 2002 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit, Metal Products & Minerals Group • 2003 Executive Managing Officer, Chairman for the Americas, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. • 2005 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer 146 Table of Contents Name Kazuya Imai Date of Birth April 20, 1946 Current Position Executive Vice President, Representative Director, Chief Financial Officer (since April 1, 2007) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Executive Vice President of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) • 2002/1 Director • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Internal Auditing Division • 2005/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters • 2005/6 Representative Director Name Toshihiro Soejima Date of Birth November 10, 1946 Current Position Executive Vice President, Representative Director (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Device Business Unit) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Device Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2003 Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning & Strategy Division • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Executive Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2005 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Executive Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2007/4 Executive Vice President Name Motokazu Yoshida Date of Birth January 7, 1948 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Representative Director; Chief Information Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project; Chairman, CSR Promotion Committee (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2003 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Machinery Business Unit • 2005/4 Executive Managing Officer, Chairman for the Americas and President and Chief Operating Officer of Mitsui & Co.(U.S.A.) Inc. • 2005/10 Senior Executive Managing Officer and Chairman for the Americas • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project 147 Table of Contents Name Hiroshi Ito Date of Birth February 8, 1947 Current Position Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer and Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. since Apr 1, 2007 Prior Positions • 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Service Business Unit • 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Consumer Service Business Unit • 2005 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Consumer Service Business Unit • 2006/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer • 2006/6 Representative Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Yoshiyuki Izawa Date of Birth February 10, 1948 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Representative Director (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit • 2004 Executive Managing Officer and General Manager, Osaka Office • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer and Director, Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC Name Junichi Matsumoto Date of Birth September 25, 1947 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Representative Director, Chief Compliance Officer and Chief Privacy Officer (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2003 Managing Officer, Deputy General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit • 2005 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Chief Privacy Officer Name Akishige Okada Date of Birth April 9, 1938 Current Position Director (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions • 1991 Director, The Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, Ltd. • 1997 President, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 2001 Chairman of the Board Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2002 Chairman of the Board Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2005 Advisor, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2007) 148 Table of Contents Name Nobuko Matsubara Date of Birth January 9, 1941 Current Position Director (since June 23, 2006) Prior Positions • 1987 Director of International Labor Division, Minister’s Secretariat, the Ministry of Labor • 1991 Director-General of Women’s Bureau, the Ministry of Labor • 1997 Vice Minister of the Ministry of Labor • 1999 President of Japan Association for Employment of Persons with Disabilities • 2002 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to Italy • 2006/1 Advisor to Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution • 2006/7 Chairman of Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution Name Ikujiro Nonaka Date of Birth May 10, 1935 Current Position Director (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 1977 Professor, Management Faculty, Nanzan University • 1979 Professor, National Defense Academy of Japan • 1982 Professor, Institute of Business Research, Hitotsubashi University • 1995 Professor, Graduate School of Knowledge Science, JAIST • 1997 Xerox Distinguished Professor in Knowledge, University of California, Berkeley • 2000 Professor, Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy, Hitotsubashi University • 2004 Director, Fujitsu Limited • 2005 Director, Eisai Co., Limited • 2006 Professor Emeritus, Hitotsubashi University Name Hiroshi Hirabayashi Date of Birth May 5, 1940 Current Position Director (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 1990 Minister, Japanese Embassy in the U.S.A • 1992 Envoy, Japanese Embassy in the U.S.A • 1993 Director-General, Economic Cooperation Bureau, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 1995 Chief Cabinet Councilor’s Office on External Affairs, Cabinet Secretariat • 1997 Secretary-General, Indo-China Refugees Measures Coordination Conference • 1998 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to India and Bhutan • 2002 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to France and Andorra • 2003 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Djibouti • 2006 Ambassador in charge of Inspection, Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 2007/3 Councilor, The Japan Forum on International Relations, Inc. • 2007/6 Director, TOSHIBA CORPORATION • 2007/6 President, The Japan-India Association 149 Table of Contents Corporate Auditors Name Tasuku Kondo Date of Birth August 12, 1942 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2005) Prior Positions • 1996 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Finance Division) • 1998 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director • 2002 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Responsible for General Accounting Division, Finance Division and Corporate Risk Management Division • 2004 Representative Director, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer • 2005/4 Representative Director Name Satoru Miura Date of Birth March 2, 1947 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Group) • 2002 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit, Metals Group • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit • 2005 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Nagoya Office Name Motonori Murakami Date of Birth November 19, 1948 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2003 Managing Officer, General Manager of Accounting Division • 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of General Accounting & Risk Management Division • 2006 Executive Managing Officer, Assistant to Senior Executive Managing Officer (Corporate Staff Division), Assistant to Chief Financial Officer Name Ko Matsukata Date of Birth March 27, 1933 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 1996) Prior Positions • 1984 Director and General Manager of Corporate Planning Department, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1985 Executive Managing Director and General Manager of Corporate Planning Department, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1988 Senior Executive Managing Director, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1990/1 Executive Vice President, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1990/6 President, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1996 Vice Chairman, Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1997 Advisor to the Board, Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 2004 Corporate Auditor, Mitsui Life Insurance Co., Ltd. • 2006 Standing Advisor, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. 150 Table of Contents Name Yasutaka Okamura Date of Birth June 13, 1929 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions • 1955 Appointment as Public Prosecutor (Osaka District Public Prosecutor’s Office) • 1980 Chief Public Prosecutor, Special Investigation Dept., Tokyo District Public Prosecutor’s Office • 1981 Chief Public Prosecutor, Naha District Public Prosecutor’s Office • 1984 Chief Cabinet Secretary to the Minister of Justice • 1985 Chief of Criminal Bureau, the Ministry of Justice • 1988 Administrative Vice-Minister, the Ministry of Justice • 1990 Deputy Superintendent Public Prosecutor • 1991 Superintendent Public Prosecutor, Tokyo High Public Prosecutor’s Office • 1992 Public Prosecutor General • 1994 Admission as Attorney at Law • 1996 President of International Civil and Commercial Law Centre Foundation Name Hideharu Kadowaki Date of Birth June 20, 1944 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2004) Prior Positions • 1996 Director and General Manager of Credit Supervision Division II, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 1997 Director and General Manager of Credit Planning Division, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 1998 Managing Director, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 2000 Senior Managing Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 2001 Senior Managing Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer, The Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2002/12 Senior Managing Director, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2003/6 Deputy President, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2004/6 Chairman of the Institute, The Japan Research Institute, Limited • 2007/6 Corporate Auditor, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. Name Naoto Nakamura Date of Birth January 25, 1960 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 23, 2006) Prior Positions • 1985/4 Admitted to the member of Second Tokyo Bar Association • 1985/4 Joined Mori Sogo Law Office • 1998 Founded HIBIYA PARK LAW OFFICES and became a partner • 2003/2 Founded Law Firm of Naoto Nakamura (currently Law Firm of Nakamura, Tsunoda & Matsumoto) and became a partner • 2003/3 Corporate Auditor, Asahi Breweries, Ltd. • 2004 Director, Eisai Co., Ltd. There is no family relationship between any Directors, Corporate Auditors, Executive Officers and any other persons named above. There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above and any other person pursuant to which they were selected as a Director, a Corporate Auditor or a member of the senior management. 151 Table of Contents B. Compensation. The aggregate amount of compensation and benefits in kind paid to Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4,071 million. A breakdown is provided as below. Directors and Corporate Auditors The remuneration of Directors and Corporate Auditors totaling ¥1,011 million during the year ended March 31, 2007 was as follows. Number of recipients Total remuneration paidrelating to the yearended March 31, 2007 Directors 11 ¥ 884 million Corporate Auditors 6 ¥ 127 million External Directors and Corporate Auditors (included in the above amounts) 7 ¥ 61 million Total 17 ¥ 1,011 million Notes: i) Limits on remuneration of Directors and Corporate Auditors have been determined by General Meeting of Shareholders resolutions as follows: for Directors, there is a total limit of ¥60 million per month (by resolution of June 27, 2002); for Corporate Auditors, there is a total limit of ¥12 million per month (by resolution of June 24, 2004). ii) The above amounts include ¥271 million in bonuses for Directors (excluding external Directors), which was approved at the 88th General Meeting of Shareholders on June 22, 2007. In advance of Notice of the 88th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholder to Mitsui’s shareholders, the Remuneration Committee, an advisory body of the Mitsui’s Board of Directors chaired by an External Director, reported to the Board of Directors that ¥271 million was an appropriate amount for bonuses. iii) The Board of Directors determines the amount of bonuses payable to each Director. The amounts of Directors’ bonuses have been set reflecting the level of consolidated net income pursuant to certain formulas which the Board of Directors and the Remuneration Committee have reviewed and modified step by step. Now total bonuses for Directors (excluding External Directors) will be calculated as the lesser of consolidated net income x 0.1% and ¥500 million, which will be payable to each director in proportionate allocation according to points given to each Director’s position. The Remuneration Committee also reviewed the formula and reported to the Board of Directors in advance of the Board of Directors’ decision to establish the formula. Executive Officers The remuneration of Executive Officers (excluding Executive Officers who are also Directors) totaled ¥2,365 million during the year ended March 31, 2007, which comprised of ¥1,035 million bonuses and ¥1,330 million monthly remunerations. The Remuneration Committee also reviews and reports to the Board of Directors on appropriateness of remuneration system and compensation levels for Executive Officers. Pension Plans and Retirement Allowances In addition, the aggregate amount of benefits from Directors’ and Corporate Auditors’ Pension Plans and retirement allowances for retiring Directors and Corporate Auditors—accrued prior to the abolition of the retirement allowance system—paid during the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥695 million. Our retirement allowance system for Directors and Corporate Auditors was abolished pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors in February 2004. Up to this resolution, in accordance with customary Japanese business practices, a retiring Director or Corporate Auditor was entitled to receive a retirement allowance, which was subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders. The amount of the retirement allowance generally reflected the number of years of service, rank at the time of retirement and 152 Table of Contents special contributions to our performance. After the abolition of the retirement allowance system, retirement allowances are not paid except for those accrued prior to the abolition. The aggregate amount set aside by us to provide pension benefits to Directors and Corporate Auditors was ¥2,651 million as of March 31, 2007. Mitsui has no stock option plans for Mitsui’s Directors and Senior Management as of June 30, 2007. C. Board Practices. The information in “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” is incorporated into this section by reference. None of our Directors have entered into any service contracts with us providing for benefits upon termination of his or her employment. The Corporate Law of Japan allows a company to adopt the “Committee System” as the framework for corporate governance. We have decided, however, to maintain the corporate auditor system because we believe that our Corporate Auditors, of whom three are full-time and four are external Auditors as of June 30, 2007 and their functions are legally defined and reinforced, provide adequate auditing functions. Furthermore, internal Directors are familiar with our business operations and can therefore contribute to effective management. Although we retained the corporate auditor system, we have decided to adopt certain aspects of the Committee System and have established three committees (the Governance Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee) to provide advice to the Board of Directors. In addition, other measures have been taken, such as shortening the term of Directors and Executive Officers from two years to one year, eliminating the retirement allowance, and increasing the number of external Directors. Our Directors and Corporate Auditors are elected at the general meeting of shareholders. In accordance with our Articles of Incorporation, the normal term of office for our Directors is one year(1) and for our Corporate Auditors is four years. However, they may both serve any number of consecutive terms. The following table shows our Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ terms of office and their shareholdings as of June 30, 2007. Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment to June 2007)(1) Shareholdings as of June 30, 2007 Director: Nobuo Ohashi 13 years 72,395 Shoei Utsuda 10 years 51,333 Hiroshi Tada 4 years 21,580 Kazuya Imai 3 years 15,131 Toshihiro Soejima 1 year 14,883 Motokazu Yoshida 1 year 13,020 Hiroshi Ito 1 year 16,965 Yoshiyuki Izawa 2 years 13,482 Junichi Matsumoto Less than 1 year 16,358 Akishige Okada(2) 4 years 1,468 Nobuko Matsubara(2) 1 year 580 Ikujiro Nonaka(2) Less than 1 year 0 Hiroshi Hirabayashi(2) Less than 1 year 0 Note (1) At Mitsui’s ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on June 24, 2004, an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation was resolved whereby the normal term of office for Directors has been changed from two years to one year. Note (2) Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi are external Directors. 153 Table of Contents Date of Expiration of Current Term of Office Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment to June 2007) Shareholdings as ofJune 30, 2007 Corporate Auditor: Tasuku Kondo June 2009 2 years 23,895 Satoru Miura June 2011 Less than 1 year 13,874 Motonori Murakami June 2011 Less than 1 year 22,203 Ko Matsukata(3) June 2009 11 years 15,259 Yasutaka Okamura(3) June 2011 4 years 6,283 Hideharu Kadowaki(3) June 2008 3 years 5,204 Naoto Nakamura(3) June 2010 1 year 0 Note (3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki and Mr. Naoto Nakamura are external Corporate Auditors. Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment to June 2007)(4) Shareholdings as of June 30, 2007 Executive Officer (excluding Executive Officers who are also a Director): Gempachiro Aihara 7 years 19,075 Yasunori Yokote 7 years 22,168 Ken Abe 5 years 25,714 Takao Sunami 5 years 15,796 Shunichi Miyazaki 5 years 15,138 Shinjiro Ogawa 5 years 15,134 Toshimasa Furukawa 5 years 14,394 Jitsuro Terashima 4 years 23,837 Koji Nakamura 3 years 11,551 Kenichi Yamamoto 3 years 11,927 Toshio Awata 3 years 8,766 Kiyotaka Watanabe 2 years 5,173 Masaaki Fujita 2 years 4,235 Junichi Mizonoue 2 years 4,133 Takao Omae 2 years 8,915 Masaaki Murakami 3 years 18,100 Norinao Iio 2 years 4,673 Osamu Koyama 2 years 1,912 Terukazu Okahashi 1 year 9,094 Osamu Takahashi 1 year 5,930 Hideyo Hayakawa 1 year 1,785 Hiraku Shimomaki 1 year 5,281 Shigeru Hanagata 1 year 8,785 Masami Iijima 1 year 9,912 Seiichi Tanaka 1 year 1,785 Masayoshi Komai Less than 1 year 3,350 Katsumi Ogawa Less than 1 year 350 Akio Yamamoto Less than 1 year 1,525 Yoshinori Setoyama Less than 1 year 12,375 Noriaki Sakamoto Less than 1 year 375 Masahiko Okamura Less than 1 year 3,519 Fuminobu Kawashima Less than 1 year 9,350 Masaaki Iida Less than 1 year 2,350 Total Shareholdings by Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers 630,320 Note (4) The rules of Executive Officers provide for the term of the Executive Officers as one year starting April 1 and ending March 31. 154 Table of Contents Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provide that the Board of Directors shall elect from among its members Representative Directors, one of whom shall be the President. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, each of the Representative Directors has statutory authority and power to represent and act on behalf of the company in all respects. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, at least half of the Corporate Auditors should be persons who have not at any time been a director, executive officer, manager or employee of a company or any of its subsidiaries prior to his or her election as a Corporate Auditor. Each Corporate Auditor has a statutory duty to examine financial statements, in collaboration with independent auditors, and business reports and also to supervise the administration of the company’s affairs by Directors. Corporate Auditors are required to participate in meetings of the Board of Directors but are not entitled to vote. The Board of Corporate Auditors is comprised of all Corporate Auditors. The Board of Corporate Auditors has a statutory duty to prepare its audit report each year. A Corporate Auditor may note his or her opinion in the audit report if his or her opinion is different from the opinion expressed in the independent auditors’ report. The Board of Corporate Auditors is empowered to establish audit principles, methods of examination by the Corporate Auditors of the company’s affairs and financial position and other matters concerning the performance of the Corporate Auditors’ duties. The Corporate Auditors may not at the same time be directors, managers or employees of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Exemption from Certain Corporate Governance Requirements of NASDAQ. Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(a)(1) provides that a foreign private issuer may follow its home country practice in lieu of the requirements of Rule 4350, provided that such foreign private issuer discloses in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each requirement of Rule 4350 that it does not follow and describes the home country practice followed by the issuer in lieu of such requirements. Such requirements of Rule 4350 and the relevant home country practices we follow are described below: • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(b) requires that there be a distribution to shareholders of copies of our annual report containing our audited financial statements a reasonable period of time prior to our annual meeting of shareholders. In accordance with the Corporate law of Japan, we hold an annual meeting of shareholders within three months after the end of each fiscal year. Also, in accordance with the Corporate Law of Japan, we distribute to shareholders, prior to the annual meeting of shareholders, copies of a report of business operations, together with our audited consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Japanese GAAP, respectively, in Japanese. Concurrently with such distribution, we distribute our audited consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Japanese GAAP, respectively, in English to the depository for the ADSs, and instruct the depository to distribute the same to the registered ADS holders in a timely manner. The English version contains a statement that, upon request by an interested party, we will provide the party with a copy of our annual report on Form 20-F. As a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP for inclusion in our annual report on Form 20-F, which must be filed within six months after the end of each fiscal year. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(1) requires that a majority of the board of directors of each issuer be independent directors as defined in Rule 4200, and Rule 4350(c)(2) requires that independent directors of each issuer have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. For Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, the Corporate Law of Japan has no independence requirement with respect to directors. The task of overseeing management and accounting firms is assigned to the corporate auditors, who are separate from the company’s management. Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, are required to have at least 50% “external” corporate auditor who must meet additional independence requirements under the Corporate Law of Japan. An external corporate auditor is defined in the Corporate Law of Japan as a 155 Table of Contents corporate auditor who has not served as a director, executive officer, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time prior to the appointment. Currently, we have four external Corporate Auditors. Our Board of Corporate Auditors, which, as explained below, performs functions similar to those of an audit committee, has regularly scheduled meetings at which only Corporate Auditors are present. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2) requires that each issuer have and will continue to have an audit committee of at least three members, each of whom (1) is independent as defined under Rule 4200(a)(15), (2) meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (3) has not participated in the preparation of the financial statements of the issuer or any current subsidiary thereof at any time during the past three years, and (4) is able to read and understand fundamental financial statements, including a company’s balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement, as required by Rule 4350(d)(2). Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(1) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written audit committee charter specifying the items enumerated in that rule and that its audit committee have reviewed and reassessed the adequacy of the charter on an annual basis. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, we are not required to establish or maintain such an audit committee. The Corporate Law of Japan has no independence requirement with respect to directors of “large” companies (defined under the Corporate Law of Japan as joint stock corporations with stated capital of ¥500 million or more or with total liabilities equal to or exceeding ¥20 billion), including Mitsui, that employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors. In many such “large” companies, functions similar to those of such an audit committee are performed by its board of corporate auditors. We have established such a Board of Corporate Auditors, each of whom does not concurrently serve as a director, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, corporate auditors are elected at a general meeting of shareholders and are under a statutory duty to review the administration of the affairs of Mitsui by its Directors and to examine financial statements and other documents and reports of Mitsui. Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, are required to have at least 50% “external” corporate auditor who must meet additional independence requirements under the Corporate Law of Japan. An external corporate auditor is defined in the Corporate Law of Japan as a corporate auditor who had not served as a director, executive officer, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time prior to the appointment. Currently, we have seven Corporate Auditors, four of whom are external Corporate Auditors who meet these additional requirements. Mitsui’s Board of Corporate Auditors has adopted its own code of auditing standards setting forth the scope of its responsibilities and the manner in which it carries out such responsibilities, and certain other matters. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(3) requires that compensation of the chief executive officer of each issuer be determined by, or recommended by its board of directors for determination either by (i) a majority of its independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and that compensation of all other executive officers be determined by, or recommended by the board of directors for determination either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. As explained above, we are not required to have independent directors. With regard to director compensation (excluding bonuses, etc.), the Corporate Law of Japan requires the board of directors to pass a board resolution proposing director compensation to be submitted for approval at a general meeting of shareholders. Within the upper limit approved at the general meeting of shareholders, the board of directors may determine the amount of compensation for each director. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate such decision to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, the upper limit of compensation for its Directors approved by the general meeting of shareholders is 70 million yen per month and the Board of Directors has determined to delegate to the Chief Executive Officer the decision-making authority as to the amount of compensation for each Director within such limit. In addition to regular compensation, the aggregate amount of bonuses and other financial benefits payable to Directors as consideration for the performance of their duties is also subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders under the 156 Table of Contents Corporate Law of Japan. With regard to employee (including officer) compensation, an approval at the general meeting of shareholders is not required under the Corporate Law of Japan. Therefore, the board of directors has the authority to determine matters relating to employee compensation. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate employee compensation matters to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, its Board of Directors has duly resolved Regulations for Executive Officers, which provide that Executive Officers who are also Directors of the Company shall not be paid any compensation in their capacities as Executive Officers and that the compensation of the Executive Officers who are not Directors of the Company shall be decided by the Board of Directors, or decided by the Chief Executive Officer or other Officers authorized by the Board of Directors. Mitsui determines compensation of its Chief Executive Officer and other Officers in accordance with the aforementioned procedures. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to compensation of the chief executive officer and other executive officers under the Corporate Law of Japan. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the compensation of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general meeting of shareholders and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4) requires that director nominees be selected or recommended for the board of directors’ selection either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. Also, Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4)(B) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process and such related matters as may be required under the U.S. federal securities laws. As explained above, we are not required to have independent directors. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, a director may be nominated by (i) a resolution of the board of directors or (ii) a shareholder owning one percent or more of the outstanding shares of a company or 300 or more shares of the company for at least 6 months. Approval by a majority of the shareholders in attendance at a general meeting of shareholders is required to elect a director. There is no specific requirement that a company adopt a written charter or board resolution addressing the nominations process, nor is it customary to do so. As for Mitsui, nominations of Directors of Mitsui are approved at a meeting of the Nomination Committee, a non-statutory committee established as an advisory board to the Board of Directors, prior to being submitted to a general meeting of shareholders. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to nomination of directors under the Corporate Law of Japan. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the nomination of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general meeting of shareholders and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(f) requires that there be a provision in the by-laws for a quorum for any meeting of the holders of common stock and that such quorum be not less than 33 1/3% of the outstanding shares of the common voting stock. In accordance with the Corporate Law of Japan, however, under our Articles of Incorporation no quorum is required for the adoption of resolutions at a general meeting of shareholders, except for (i) the election of Directors and Corporate Auditors for which the quorum shall not be less than one-third of the total voting rights and (ii) resolutions for other specified issues required by the Corporate Law of Japan (the “special shareholders’ resolutions”), which include an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, a reduction of stated capital, the removal of a Corporate Auditor, dissolution, merger or consolidation requiring shareholders resolution, the transfer of the whole or an important part of the business, the taking over of the whole of the business of any other corporation requiring shareholders’ resolutions, share exchange or share transfer requiring shareholders resolution for the purpose of establishing 100% parent-subsidiary relationships, splitting of the corporation into two or more corporations requiring shareholders’ resolution, any offering of new shares 157 Table of Contents at a “specially favorable” price (or any offering of the rights to subscribe for, or acquire its shares at a “specially favorable” conditions) to any persons other than shareholders, for which the quorum shall be at least one-third of the total voting rights and the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting rights represented at the meeting is required. This approach is consistent with generally accepted business practices of publicly-held companies in Japan. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(g) provides that each issuer solicit proxies and provide proxy statements for all meetings of shareholders and provide copies of such proxy solicitation to Nasdaq. Currently a Japanese company whose shares are listed on the securities exchanges defined in the Securities and Exchange Law, including us, may, but is not required to, solicit proxies for meetings of shareholders. If such a Japanese company solicits proxies for a meeting of shareholders, it is required to provide proxy statements and documents for reference as provided for in the Securities and Exchange Law and provide copies of such proxy statements and documents for reference to the Kanto Local Finance Bureau. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(h) provides that each issuer conduct appropriate review of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis and that all such transactions be approved by the issuer’s audit committee or another independent body of the board of directors. Following the requirements of the Corporate Law of Japan, we require a Director to obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in order for such Director to enter into such transactions. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1) requires that shareholder approval be obtained for the issuance of the issuer’s stock in certain conditions or certain specified transactions described therein. The Corporate Law of Japan requires us to seek shareholder approval of various matters, and in certain instances the special shareholders’ resolutions as described above are required for approval. In addition, while the Corporate Law of Japan permits, in certain instances, the issuance of equity securities without shareholder approval, the Corporate Law of Japan also contains provisions requiring the timely dissemination of information relating to such issuance, allowing for opportunities for shareholders to voice their concern with such issuance, and mandating the election of corporate auditors whose fiduciary duty is to, among other things, oversee on behalf of the shareholders actions by the board of directors relating to such issuance. The rights of ADS holders, including their rights relating to corporate governance practices, are provided in the deposit agreement. Limitation of Liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui provide that Mitsui may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, limit the liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors to the extent as permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui also provide that Mitsui may conclude a contract with external Directors and external Corporate Auditors to limit the liability of such Directors and Corporate Auditors to the extent as permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. In accordance with such provision of the Articles of Incorporation, Mitsui has concluded with external Directors (Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi) and external Corporate Auditors (Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki and Mr. Naoto Nakamura), respectively, contracts to limit their liability to the extent permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. D. Employees As of March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had 41,761, 40,993 and 38,210 employees, respectively. The average number of temporary employees during the year ended March 31, 2007 was 15,768. 158 Table of Contents The following table provides the numbers of employees by operating segment as of the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Year ended March 31, 2007 2006 2005 Operating Segment: Iron & Steel Products 2,270 2,044 2,044 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 2,425 2,504 2,361 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 10,859 9,338 7,143 Chemical 3,731 3,735 3,792 Energy 1,516 1,384 1,555 Foods & Retail 6,575 6,555 5,894 Lifestyle, Consumer Services and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 5,481 5,607 4,627 Logistics & Financial Markets 1,284 1,239 1,159 Americas 2,316 2,888 2,677 Europe 1,081 1,078 1,084 Asia 1,969 2,102 2,221 Other Overseas Areas 503 535 754 All Other 1,751 1,984 2,899 Total 41,761 40,993 38,210 We consider relations between management and our labor unions to be good. E. Share Ownership. Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers As of June 30, 2007, the members of Mitsui’s Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers held as a group, 630,320 shares of our common stock, representing 0.04% of the shares outstanding. This number of shares included 64,931 shares held by Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. None of Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors nor Executive Officers is the beneficial owner of more than 1% of Mitsui’s common stock. The number of shares held by Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers, on an individual basis, is provided in “Item 6.C. Board Practices,” and is incorporated herein by reference. In July, 2006, a new management shareholding scheme was introduced, whereby each of Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers are required to purchase Mitsui’s shares through Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers purchase Mitsui’s shares in an amount equivalent to 10% of his or her salary, which amount is deducted from his or her salary for the purchases through said Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Employees Shareholding Association Mitsui operates an Employees’ Shareholding Association which, as of June 30, 2007, had 3,377 employee member participants. Employee members declare monthly the amount to be deducted from his or her salary to be used to purchase shares of common stock of Mitsui through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members receive from Mitsui a monthly subsidy equivalent to 10% of the declared amount, enabling them to purchase shares equivalent to 110% of the declared amount. Employee members are entitled to dividends which are applied towards the purchase of additional shares through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members are able to sell part of their shares that have been reserved for them under the Employees’ Shareholding 159 Table of Contents Association’s plan, in multiples of 1,000 shares, once every month. As of June 30, 2007, the total amount of shares having voting rights owned by the Employees’ Shareholding Association was 10,633,894, representing 0.59% of the total shares issued and outstanding. Mitsui does not have any other arrangements for its employees that involves the issue or grant of options, shares or securities of Mitsui. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions. A. Major Shareholders. As of March 31, 2007, there were 1,787,538,428 shares of our common stock issued (including 2,911,367 shares of treasury stock), of which 11,393,180 shares were in the form of ADSs, representing 0.64% of our then outstanding common stock, and 223,566,329 shares, representing 12.51% of our then outstanding common stock, were held of record in the form of common stock by residents in the United States. The number of registered ADS holders was 39, and the number of registered holders of shares of common stock in the United States was 157. The following table shows our major shareholders as of March 31, 2007, including shareholders who owned less than 5% of our then outstanding common stock, disclosed under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan. Shareholders Thousands of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 200,840 11.23 % Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 163,325 9.13 % Mitsui Life Insurance Company Limited 45,930 2.56 % Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 38,500 2.15 % State Street Bank and Trust Company 505103 36,716 2.05 % Nippon Life Insurance Company 35,070 1.96 % Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 4) 31,635 1.76 % Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. 31,083 1.73 % The Chuo Mitsui Trust and Banking Company, Limited 30,799 1.72 % The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 30,375 1.69 % (*) The figures are rounded down to two decimal places. Under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan, any person that becomes a holder (together with its related persons) of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company listed on any Japanese stock exchange (including ADSs representing such shares) must file a report with the Director of the relevant Local Finance Bureau and send a copy of such report to the company. A similar report must also be filed if the percentage holding of a holder of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company increases or decreases by 1% or more. Based on such reports we have received, we are aware that each of the following persons, together with its affiliates, was the beneficial owner of our common stock in the amounts and as of the dates shown in the following tables: Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Ltd. Ownership as of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) September 30, 2004 132,175,833 8.35 % March 31, 2005 105,825,213 6.68 September 30, 2005 98,021,300 6.19 March 31, 2006 76,106,300 4.41 160 Table of Contents Mitsui Asset Trust and Banking Company, Limited Ownership as of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) February 22, 2005 70,694,710 4.46 % February 28, 2006 71,136,710 4.49 Barclays Global Investors Japan Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Ownership as of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) March 31, 2005 92,838,276 5.86 % June 30, 2005 73,848,516 4.66 August 30, 2005 79,629,817 5.03 September 9, 2005 72,230,817 4.56 September 26, 2005 79,727,817 5.03 October 31, 2005 82,041,817 5.17 December 6, 2005 63,299,817 4.00 Fidelity Investments Japan Limited Ownership as of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) December 1, 2005 85,569,000 5.40 % February 15, 2007 72,786,000 4.22 May 31, 2007 90,801,000 5.08 JPMorgan Trust Bank Limited Ownership as of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) March 31, 2006 88,102,243 5.11 % September 30, 2006 60,525,493 3.51 % AllianceBernstein Japan Ltd. Ownership as of Shares of Common Stock Owned Percentage of Common Stock Issued(*) March 31, 2006 91,095,320 5.28 % (*) The percentage figures are calculated as of the dates shown in the table. Percentage figures as of March 31, 2007, after the issuance of 130 million shares through the public offering in February 2006 and 9.75 million shares through the third party allotment in March 2006, are not necessarily available from the aforementioned reports. The voting rights of our major shareholders do not differ from the voting rights of other shareholders. To our knowledge, we are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any other corporations, by any foreign government or by any other natural or legal persons severally or jointly. We know of no arrangements which may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of Mitsui. B. Related Party Transactions When conducting our business operations throughout the world, we form alliances with leading partner companies in Japan and overseas, including manufacturers and companies in the field of natural resources, such 161 Table of Contents as energy and ferrous materials. In addition to investing in, or providing loans to, associated companies where we are a minority shareholder, we conduct selling and purchasing transactions of various products on a recurring basis with such associated companies. Our principal associated companies include Valepar S.A. (18.2%), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (50.0%), P.T. Paiton Energy(36.3%), Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (25.0%), IPM Eagle LLP (30.0%),Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (31.8%) and Penske Automotive Group, Inc. (16.4%), among others. The following table shows information regarding account balances and transactions with associated companies: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2007 2006 Accounts receivable, trade ¥ 241 ¥ 170 Advances to associated companies 130 119 Accounts payable, trade 65 108 Dividends received from associated companies for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to ¥110 billion, ¥64 billion and ¥33 billion, respectively. See Note 6, “INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES” to our consolidated financial statements. Prices applied in transactions with associated companies are computed in the same way that such prices would be calculated in transactions with unrelated third parties. In addition, when associated companies are counterparties in transactions with us and we conduct such business under long-term procurement and/or sales contracts, in general, we conclude a corresponding sales contract with the purchasers (unrelated parties) of goods procured by us and/or with suppliers (unrelated parties) of the goods we sell to associated companies. Regarding any other commitments related to transactions with associated companies, we do not normally assume risk in excess of its percentage of share ownership in an associated company. In furtherance of their trading activities, it is customary practice for us to loan or guarantee, severally and jointly with others, indebtedness of certain customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. At March 31, 2007, the aggregate amount of loans (including ¥67 billion guarantees) relating to associated companies was ¥200 billion. The largest amount outstanding as of March 31, 2007 was ¥26 billion loan with no interest to P.T. Paiton Energy Co., which owns and operates a coal-fired power plant in East Java, Indonesia. The loan was mainly from Paiton Power Financing B.V., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsui engaged in the financing for P.T. Paiton Energy Co. Other major loans to associated companies are related to the power plant project and the projects in the development of natural resources jointly invested with other partners. In the ordinary course of our business, we have entered into transactions with various organizations with which certain of our Directors and Senior Management are associated, but no material transactions have been entered into for the three-year period ended March 31, 2007. As of March 31, 2007, no person was the beneficial owner of more than 10% of our common stock. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel. Not applicable. 162 Table of Contents Item 8. Financial Information. A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information. Consolidated Financial Statements The audited consolidated financial statements required by this item are included elsewhere in this annual report. Export Sales The total amount of revenues from export transactions for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥455 billion or 9% of total revenue of ¥4,881 billion. Legal Proceedings Various claims and legal actions are pending against us in respect of contractual obligations and other matters arising out of the conduct of our business. Appropriate provision has been recorded for the estimated loss on claims and legal actions. In the opinion of management, any liability will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Dividend Policy We have set the target dividend payout ratio at 20% of consolidated net income, and by growing profits at Mitsui will aim to progressively and sustainably increase dividend payments. Such payments will, however, be subject to our future earnings, financial condition, approval at the shareholders’ meeting (in the case of year-end dividends) and other factors, including statutory and other restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends. B. Significant Changes Except as disclosed in this annual report, there has not been any significant change since the date of the latest annual financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Item 9. The Offer and Listing. A. Offer and Listing Details. The primary market for Mitsui’s common stock is the Tokyo Stock Exchange, or TSE. Mitsui’s common stock is traded on the First Section of the TSE and is also listed on four other stock exchanges in Japan (Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka and Sapporo Stock Exchanges). Mitsui’s American Depository Shares (“ADSs”), each representing 20 shares of common stock, are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol MITSY. American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”), each evidencing one or more ADSs, were originally issued pursuant to a Deposit Agreement in May 1963, as amended from time to time, that we entered into with Citibank N.A. of New York as Depositary and the holders of the ADRs. 163 Table of Contents The following table provides the reported high and low closing sales prices of our common stock on the TSE and the reported high and low closing bid price quotations per ADS for the period indicated: TSE NASDAQ Price per Share ofCommon Stock(Yen) Price per ADS(U.S. dollars)(1) High Low High Low Year ended March 31: 2003 ¥ 910 ¥ 531 $ 146.75 $ 89.40 2004 946 541 181.50 90.90 2005 1,074 773 206.20 137.50 2006 1,731 908 292.66 171.50 2007 2,315 1,427 382.21 245.00 Year ended March 31, 2006: First quarter ¥ 1,050 ¥ 908 $ 192.44 $ 171.50 Second quarter 1,490 1,015 270.10 182.53 Third quarter 1,583 1,343 267.50 225.98 Fourth quarter 1,731 1,481 292.66 255.30 Year ending March 31, 2007: First quarter ¥ 1,824 ¥ 1,427 $ 326.00 $ 249.42 Second quarter 1,750 1,445 304.00 249.46 Third quarter 1,788 1,430 301.90 245.00 Fourth quarter 2,315 1,671 382.21 281.44 Year ending March 31, 2008: First quarter ¥ 2,595 ¥ 2,040 $ 416.60 $ 347.21 Month of: March 2007 ¥ 2,220 ¥ 1,979 $ 381.00 $ 337.71 April 2007 2,195 2,040 371.90 347.21 May 2007 2,400 2,180 403.00 367.01 June 2007 2,595 2,380 416.60 391.00 July 2007 2,880 2,530 475.96 413.05 August 2007 2,650 2,005 455.95 371.60 (1) All fractional figures of the prices per ADS are rounded to the nearest two decimal points. Share prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges set daily price limits, which limit the maximum range of fluctuation within a single trading day. Daily price limits are set according to the previous day’s closing price or special quote. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. On September 19, 2007, the closing sales price per share of our common stock on the TSE was ¥2,575, and the closing sales price per ADS on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was U.S.$452.51. B. Plan of Distribution. Not applicable. C. Markets. See “Item 9.A. Offer and Listing Details.” 164 Table of Contents D. Selling Shareholders. Not applicable. E. Dilution. Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue. Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information. A. Share Capital. Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association. General Set forth below is information relating to the organization and common stock of Mitsui, including brief summaries of the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations adopted by Mitsui’s Board of Directors, as currently in effect, and of the Corporate Law of Japan and related legislation. With the revision of the Corporate Law of Japan and related legislation on May 1, 2006, the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations were, among other things, amended as follows: (1) Article 16 of Mitsui’s Article of Incorporation provides that Mitsui may, in convening General Meetings of Shareholders, post on the Internet information required to be recorded or indicated in reference documents for General Meetings of Shareholders, business reports, financial statements and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations. Such posting of information may be deemed to constitute provision of such information to shareholders; (2) Article 18 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that a shareholder may exercise his/her voting rights by proxy who shall be one shareholder of Mitsui with voting rights; (3) Article 24 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation enables the Board of Directors to simplify the resolution process by providing that Mitsui shall deem a resolution of the Board of Directors to have been adopted if all the Directors agree in writing or electromagnetic record thereto and other requirements provided for in the Corporate Law of Japan are satisfied; and (4) Article 32 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation enables Mitsui to enter into agreements to limit the liability of its external Corporate Auditors so that Mitsui may engage suitable personnel who are able to fulfill their expected roles as external Corporate Auditors. Organization Mitsui is a corporation (kabushiki kaisha) incorporated in Japan under the Corporate Law of Japan. It is registered in the Commercial Register (shogyo tokibo) maintained by the Tokyo Legal Affairs Bureau and several other registry offices of the Ministry of Justice. 165 Table of Contents Objects and Purposes Article 2 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that our objects are to engage in the following business: 1. Foreign trade, purchases and sales, wholesale, agency and brokerage business relating to the following commodities: (1) Ferrous and non-ferrous metals and their raw materials, manufactured goods, and minerals. (2) Coal, petroleum, natural gas and other fuels and their by-products. (3) All kinds of machines, appliances (including measuring instruments and medical apparatus) and equipment including manufacturing equipment, communications equipment and antipollution equipment, rolling stock and vehicles, ships and boats, aerospace equipment and aircraft, and parts for the foregoing. (4) All kinds of chemical products, salt, fertilizers, high-pressure gas, explosives, pharmaceuticals (including medicines, non-medicinal drugs, medicine for veterinary use, narcotics, poisons and stimulants), radio isotopes, cosmetics, and raw materials for the foregoing. (5) Cereals, sugar, oils and fats, feeds and their raw materials; livestock, agricultural, dairy and marine products, processed foods, alcoholic beverages and other foodstuffs and drinks. (6) All kinds of textile products and their raw materials. (7) All kinds of fur products and raw fur. (8) Lumber, cement, other building materials and housing-related equipment. (9) Rubber, pulp, paper and their manufactured goods; tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and sundry goods. (10) Industrial water and drinking water. 2. Exploration, development, manufacturing, processing, scrapping and recycling business relating to the above-mentioned items. 3. Acquisition, planning, preservation, utilization and disposition of copyright, patents and other intellectual property rights, know-how, systems technology and other software, including acting as an intermediary in such transactions. 