Risk Factors.” With respect to oil and gas exploration and production (“E&P”) business, in our view, the key to success is to constantly increase, or at a minimum maintain, certain volumes of oil and gas reserve prospects as is the common practice for international oil and gas companies. However, despite our management’s intensive focus on expanding our E&P business activities, our oil and gas reserves are still far less than that of the national oil companies of oil producing countries and major oil and gas companies. Other Japanese companies that participate in E&P activities 40 Table of Contents do not commonly disclose their proved oil and gas reserves. Based on the limited proved oil and gas reserves information of other Japanese E&P companies that are publicly available, we believe that we generally have higher amounts of proved oil and gas reserves as compared to most Japanese E&P companies. Accordingly, we believe that we are competitive with other Japanese E&P companies. The following tables provide information on our investments in coal resource projects undertaken by the Energy Segment. For more information on our mining activities including production and reserves, See “Item 4.D. Property, Plants and Equipment—Mining Activities.” COAL Joint Venture or Investee(1) Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company(2) Name of Mines(3) Location Mitsui’sPercentage ofOwnership Other Major Participantsand Their Percentages ofOwnership BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Poitrel South Walker Creek Queensland, Australia 20.00 % BHP Billiton 80.00 % Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Bengalla New South Wales, Australia 10.00 % Rio Tinto Wesfarmers Taiwan Power 40.00 40.00 10.00 % % % Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Kestrel Queensland, Australia 20.00 % Rio Tinto 80.00 % Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Dawson Queensland, Australia 49.00 % Anglo American 51.00 % German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. German Creek Queensland, Australia 30.00 % Anglo American 70.00 % (1) The term “Investee” refers only to BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. (2) “Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company” indicates names of the companies through which we own our interests in the joint ventures or the investee. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. is a Mitsui associated company in which we directly own a 20% stake. (3) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (4) In addition to the above-mentioned coal mining projects, through Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd., we have small interests in two projects in Australia operated by Anglo American, namely, Moranbah North Joint Venture in Queensland and Drayton Joint Venture in New South Wales. Our ownership percentage and annual production capacity of Moranbah North Joint Venture and Drayton Joint Venture are 4.75%, 4 million tons and 3.83%, 5 million tons, respectively. Regarding further information and discussion on development of our coal mining projects, see “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company—Capital Expenditure”, “Item 5.A. Operating Results—Operating Results by Operating Segment—Energy Segment” and “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Investment Plans and Financial policies of the Medium Term Management Outlook.” Revenues from oil and gas producing activities and coal mining activities account for a critical portion of this segment. The table below sets forth the break down of revenues of the Energy Segment. Revenues Billions of Yen Revenues from Sales of Products Revenues fromSales of Servicesand Other Sales Total Revenues Years Ended March 31, Revenues fromOil and GasProducingActivities Revenues fromCoal MiningActivities Revenues fromSales ofOther Products(*) Commissions andTrading Margins onIntermediary Servicesand Other 2008 ¥ 248.7 ¥ 34.3 ¥ 986.2 ¥ 14.6 ¥ 1,283.8 2007 99.1 27.9 941.6 1.9 1,070.5 2006 35.4 26.6 767.5 12.9 842.4 (*) Revenues from sales of other products mainly consist of sales of crude oil and petroleum products. 41 Table of Contents The Energy Segment is engaged in oil trading operations conducted by Mitsui and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong, China). This segment has a 20% minority share in Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States). The international markets for crude oil and petroleum products are highly competitive and volatile. In maintaining our competitive edge under these circumstances, it is critical for us to maintain good relationships with customers and suppliers as well as to mitigate price risks by utilizing hedging tools such as the futures markets. We are active in seeking to secure long-term offtake contracts of petroleum products such as fuel oil and condensate to be sold to worldwide companies including Japanese utility and refining companies. Long-term offtake contracts are sales and purchase contracts for various commodities, such as crude oil and petroleum products, entered into by suppliers and buyers, or “offtakers”, of such commodities for more than one year. Concurrent with the offtake contracts, the sellers of such commodities usually enter into financing arrangements whereby the sales proceeds from such commodities are used for repayment. Within Japan, we are also engaged in refining and sales of oil and gas related products through Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan), our oil sales subsidiary, and Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (Japan). Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. is a refinery jointly owned (50:50) by the ExxonMobil Corp. Group and Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd.. In the domestic refining and marketing business for oil and gas related products, we have faced severe competition from domestic oil refining and distributing companies due to the structural surplus situation for refining capacity in Japan. Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. and Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. are in relatively sound financial situations owing to the extensive restructuring of inefficient assets and work force, and are pursuing efficient and competitive operations. In the LPG gas business, Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) merged with Marubeni Liquefied Gas, Inc. in April 2008 to form Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Mitsui’s ownership interest in the new company is 60%. It concentrates on improvement in operational efficiency and selling capacity by consolidating whole procedures of domestic LPG distribution from importing to retail. We are also exploring various new business opportunities in the emerging new energy area. Mitsui expects bio-ethanol to be a significant renewable fuel in the future, and world demand to rise. In April 2006, Mitsui reached an agreement with Petróleo Brasileiro SA (“Petrobras”) to jointly carry out a feasibility study for production of bio-ethanol and related products in Brazil and for the marketing of such products in the international market. In July 2008, Mitsui, Petrobras and another Brazilian company reached agreement to jointly set up and invest in a project company to develop a bio-ethanol production project. As one of new business areas, this segment has been developing carbon credits business based on the framework of the Kyoto Protocol and implementing Clean Development Mechanism (“CDM”) projects. CDM is an arrangement under the Kyoto Protocol allowing industrialized countries with a greenhouse gas reduction commitment to invest in emission reducing projects in developing countries as an alternative to what are considered more costly emission reductions in their own countries. Foods & Retail Segment The Foods & Retail Segment consists of one business unit, the Foods & Retail Business Unit, which has 27 subsidiaries including Wilsey Foods Inc. (United States), MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), MCM Foods B.V. (Netherland), Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan), and VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. (Japan); and 14 associated companies including Mikuni Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Japan), Kadoya Sesame Mills Inc. (Japan) and MULTIGRAIN AG (Brazil). Gross profit for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥81.2 billion or 8.2% of our consolidated total. This segment recorded a net loss of ¥10.5 billion or 2.6% of our consolidated total. 42 Table of Contents The Foods & Retail Business Unit engages in: • Import and domestic/offshore trade of wheat, barley, soybeans, corn, rapeseed, fats and oils, raw sugar, rice and investments in these food raw material production and distribution businesses abroad; • Import and domestic/offshore trade of processed foods such as canned products, frozen foods and condiments, liquor, beverages such as coffee, tea and juice, dairy products, foodstuffs such as marine products, animal products and vegetables and investment in overseas dairy farming businesses; • Import and domestic trade of packaging, wrapping materials, and miscellaneous daily goods; • Manufacture of beverages, beverage ingredients, broiler chicken raising; • Domestic distribution and sales through the nationwide wholesaler subsidiary MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan); and • Support services, such as supply chain management including logistics management, and product planning and development for retailers. The Foods & Retail Business Unit is involved in a wide range of fields in a value chain of foods, from the global procurement of food material and production of food products to the traffic and wholesale of foods, packaging materials, and sundry goods. To secure a stable supply source, we purchase grain, oilseeds, and raw sugar from the United States, Canada, Brazil Australia, Thailand and China and sell them in Japan and other Asian countries. We sell coffee to Japan and United States from our production bases primarily in Brazil. We purchase raw materials for beverages, such as tea leaves and juice, marine products, animal products, and dairy products from major supply sources around the world and deliver them primarily to Japan. We are also engaged in domestic broiler chicken raising, processing, and sales through a subsidiary DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan, currently named PRIFOODS CO., LTD, as a result of a business consolidation in April 2008). We have positioned the United States as our main base of operations and the core of our global food supply strategy. In collaboration with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., this business unit has developed and maintained the following businesses: • In the cereals and grains area, we have formed a joint venture, United Harvest, LLC, with CHS Inc., an agricultural cooperative-based company in the United States. Our exports of wheat from the United States are among the largest, amounting to approximately 4 million tons per annum. • Ventura Foods, LLC, another joint venture formed with CHS Inc., is one of the largest suppliers of cooking oils for the institutional market in the United States. We invest in this company through WILSEY FOODS, INC. (United States). In food-manufacturing operations, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), which became our subsidiary during the year ended March 31, 2004, is engaged in beverage business as one of the major manufacturers of tea leaves in Japan. Competition varies depending on raw materials and products in the upstream areas of grain, feed, sugar and food materials, but is primarily based on price and quality of products. Many Japanese general trading companies, international producers, and traders are competitors to varying degrees with respect to most of the food products we handle. In 2007 and 2008, this business unit made several investments in food production abroad, such as a diversified farming company in Brazil, rapeseed oil producing facilities in North America, a dairy food producing company in New Zealand and a shrimp farm company in China. This business unit aims to secure safe and stable supply sources of food, considering rapidly increasing food demand from emerging countries and conflict in supply capacity for bio-fuel purpose production. The individual investment amount is relatively small, but this business unit intends to expand market channels to Japan and Asia, starting from the above-mentioned joint operations with the most reliable partners in major food material producing countries. 43 Table of Contents In overseas wholesale operations, MCM Foods B.V (Netherland) engages in the import and sales of canned food products and groceries in England and other European market. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) plays a vital role in this unit’s wholesale operations. Its wide-range business activities and customers include general merchandise stores, supermarkets, convenience stores, and catering and restaurant chains throughout Japan, focusing on processed food and liquor transactions. In the foodstuffs distribution field, the needs for reduced distribution costs, secure temperature-controlled supply, and faster delivery are becoming more sophisticated and diverse. In April 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui agreed with KOKUBU & CO., LTD. (“KOKUBU”), a major Japanese food wholesaler, to form a business alliance, which includes support by KOKUBU for improvement of management and operations of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and cooperation in product categories to be reinforced by both companies. In October 2007, this business unit transferred 70% of the shares of Hokushuren Co., Ltd. (Japan), formerly a foods and liquor wholesale subsidiary, to KOKUBU, following transfer of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.’s business in the Hokkaido area (excluding Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.-related businesses) to Hokushuren Co., Ltd. Mitsui maintains a comprehensive alliance with Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan’s nationwide diversified retailer, which mainly engages in convenience stores, general merchandise stores, department stores, restaurant chains, retail banking service. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. maintains operation in China such as SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) established in April 2004. Mitsui offers the following supply services to Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. through our domestic subsidiaries, such as MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., Retail System Service Co., Ltd. and VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. • supply sundry goods and consumables, such as processed food, liquor, fast food, toys, and games, to more than eleven thousand 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply food materials, containers, and packaging materials to vendors who supply boxed lunches, pre-cooked meals, and processed food to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply various temperature-controlled products to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; and • supply cold products through the affiliate company Beijing Sanxin Refrigeration Logistics Co., Ltd. to 7-Eleven stores in Beijing. As of end of February 2008, Mitsui owned 1.70% of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.’s outstanding shares. Mitsui purchased the shares for a total cost of ¥50 billion in 2005, seeking to strengthen business ties with them. Our competitors in the wholesale and retail businesses are mainly general trading companies in Japan. In the traffic area, our competitors are also traffic companies that operate third-party logistics providing customized and integrated warehousing and transportation services. In domestic wholesaling, there has been fierce competition among suppliers, and from time to time they conduct mergers and acquisitions to increase revenues and reduce logistics costs. Consumer Service & IT Segment This segment is comprised of the First Consumer Service Business Unit; the Second Consumer Service Business Unit; and the IT Business Unit. Effective April 2007, the First and the Second Consumer Service Business Units were established by reorganizing the former Lifestyle Business Unit and the former Consumer Service Business Unit. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥116.7 billion or 11.8% and ¥12.0 billion or 2.9% of our consolidated total, respectively. 44 Table of Contents This segment owns 37 subsidiaries including: • Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (Japan) and Kids Station Inc. (Japan) in the First Consumer Service Business Unit; • BUSSAN REAL ESTATE CO., LTD. (Japan) and MBK Real Estate Europe Limited (United Kingdom) in the Second Consumer Service Business Unit; and • Telepark Corp. (Japan), Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan), J-SCube INC. (Japan) and Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) in the IT Business Unit. And it has 37 associated companies including: • ALCANTARA S.p.A. (Italy), QVC Japan Inc. (Japan), AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Sogo Medical Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the First Consumer Service Business Unit and • Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Second Consumer Service Business Unit; and • Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan), Brightstar Logistics Pty. Ltd. (Australia) in the IT Business Unit. First Consumer Service Business Unit Together with 14 subsidiaries and 20 associated companies, the First Consumer Service Business Unit is engaged in domestic, import, export and offshore services, trading and manufacturing of the following: • media-related service business including broadcasting, content service, television shopping channels, software service, amusement business and Internet-based marketing service; • outsourcing services including catering, uniform rental, building maintenance, temporary personnel service and child care service; • medical service and health care related businesses such as nursing care-related services, clinic facilities and medical-related information service; • apparel products, including development and manufacturing of those products; and brand merchandize-related businesses including equity participation in joint ventures with brand owners and brand licensing; and • consumer goods including beauty and health products; and interior and living items. In the media-related service business, as a consumer service and content provider, we provide television shopping services operated by an associated company, QVC Japan, Inc. (Japan), which was established jointly with QVC Inc. of the United States; and an entertainment and educational channel for children and parents operated by Kids Station Inc. (Japan), our subsidiary, both of which are delivered over cable or digital satellite broadcast networks. Our BS digital high definition free television channel subsidiary, World Hi-Vision Channel, Inc. started broadcasting in Japan in December 2007. This business unit engages in development of business opportunities by accessing from broadcasting business to Internet and mobile-related businesses. In the outsourcing businesses, AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan), an associated company jointly established with ARAMARK Corporation in the United States, has provided a variety of services in Japan since 1976. Its major businesses are contract food service and related support services for companies, schools, hospitals and social welfare facilities. In December 2005 it acquired MEFOS Ltd, a provider of hospital food service, at 100% share ownership. Domestic food service market has stagnated and mergers and acquisitions by leading companies are ongoing. It is also engaged in refreshment services for offices, design, cleaning and facilities management, uniform rental and contract staffing to dining facilities. We position medical and healthcare business as a business domain subject to company wide intensification, and integrated the whole medical and pharmaceutical businesses within this business unit. Mitsui acquired 5% of the outstanding shares in Recruit Co., Ltd. for ¥27 billion in February 2007. Recruit Co., Ltd. mainly conducts 45 Table of Contents business in the two areas of comprehensive staffing services and information services. Mitsui and Recruit Co., Ltd. entered into a business collaboration agreement, under which both have developed new business opportunities such as senior-care, newly developed medical businesses and medical related information services. This business unit handles pharmaceutical businesses which formerly the First Chemicals Business Units handled. In the apparel products and textile field, we provide services to accommodate developments in the fashion and apparel markets in: • original equipment manufacturing (“OEM”) business for apparel manufacturers; and • brand name products as well as brand licensing businesses. In the field of apparel and OEM, we play roles at various stages in the value chain, including design, planning and procurement of materials as well as sewing and processing. To minimize costs and enhance quality, we work with apparel makers and their affiliated companies to select the optimal materials and processing sites from a variety of measures available in Japan, Europe, the Americas, Asia and other areas. Among others, we consider China as an important manufacturing base and also a significant consumer market as well. With respect to brand businesses in Japan, we are engaged in both license and import business transactions involving internationally well-known branded merchandise from Europe and the United States such as Burberry, Paul Stuart and Max Mara. With overseas brand owners, we enter into license agreements to retain our exclusive marketing rights or to sublicense certain rights including marketing and manufacturing rights to apparel makers. We, if necessary, establish joint ventures with the brand owners, which control license arrangements or distribute imported products in order to establish nationwide sales network. In the business area of consumer goods, responding to the changes in lifestyles, we seek new materials and new suppliers, arrange effective distribution methods and develop attractive brands. We import high-quality consumer goods such as Maglite hand flashlights. Second Consumer Service Business Unit Major business areas of this business unit, including 11 subsidiaries and 10 associated companies, consist of the following: • real estate development including construction, sale and leasing of houses, condominiums, commercial facilities, senior housing and office buildings and related construction material businesses; • industrial materials such as pulp, paper and specialty fiber products. Real estate development businesses include the following activities: • Mitsui engages in development of condominium and commercial property in the Tokyo metropolitan area. Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) had engaged in the high-end home units business; however, due to the shrinking market in Japan, it decided to withdraw from the business in August 2006. • Mitsui, BUSSAN REAL ESTATE CO., LTD. (Japan) and MBK Real Estate Europe Limited (United Kingdom) engage in real estate sales, leasing, management and development in Japan and Europe. • An associated company, Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan), supplies construction materials in the domestic market. In the business of industrial materials, we trade woodchips and pulp; furthermore, we develop several afforestation projects in Australia, some of which are jointly developed with several Japanese and local partners including a paper manufacturing company. As for paper products, we have established and operated joint ventures in China with Japanese manufacturers, as well as handling those products for domestic and export markets in Japan. 46 Table of Contents IT Business Unit The Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit is involved in information technology services and solutions. These are delivered through the unit’s 12 subsidiaries and 7 associated companies established in the following five major fields: • network and systems integration (“NI/ SI”) businesses; • mobile communication businesses including sales agency of mobile handset and telecommunications lines; distribution of mobile handsets; and development and sales of mobile content; • business process outsourcing services including enterprise information management and call-center services; • semiconductors related businesses including sales agency for semiconductor chips, semiconductor manufacturing equipments and semiconductor inspection equipments; and • display related businesses including export and trading of flat-panel displays and parts. In the field of NI/SI businesses, a subsidiary, Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan), and an associated company, Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), both listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, provide integrated solutions to a wide range of customers. • Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. provides services, such as consultation, designing, building and operation of network systems to a wide range of customers including telecommunications carriers, government offices, local municipalities and healthcare and education related public bodies. It is also engaged in planning and development of network systems which are equipped with voice recognition technology and typically used by call centers and in high-security systems such as automatic billing systems used by pay-TV broadcasters. Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. was formed by a merger in April 2007 between NextCom K.K. and Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. • Nihon Unisys, Ltd. is engaged in the designing and building of computer systems, business process outsourcing services, support services and other peripheral services as well as sales of computer systems. These services are provided to business enterprises in the financial, manufacturing and distribution and public sectors. Mitsui owns a 31.9% voting interest in Nihon Unisys, Ltd. as of March 2008. Unisys Corporation in the United States, which formerly held the same equity stake as Mitsui, sold its entire shareholding in Nihon Unisys, Ltd. in March 2006, and Mitsui has since been its single largest shareholder. The market for business process outsourcing services has been expanding in Japan. We have developed those businesses through a subsidiary, J-SCube Inc. (Japan), and an associated company, Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan). J-SCube Inc., which has been engaged in distribution of information processing devices such as optical character readers (“OCR”) and information input devices, has recently focused on enterprise information management such as customer information input, management and operation. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) is one of the Japan’s major providers of call centers and related outsourcing services. In 1987, it was established by Mitsui and eleven minor shareholders. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. later went public on the over-the-counter market and is now listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, with our current voting interest at 34.4%. We are engaged in various mobile communication businesses through alliances with domestic cell phone service providers and manufacturers. Telepark Corp. (Japan), one of the major agencies for cell phone subscription as well as a retailer and distributor of cell phone handsets in Japan, is a core subsidiary in this field. It sold 3.9 million cell phones for the year ended March 31, 2008. It has also acted as agent for subscription of fixed telecommunications lines, including broadband connections. Telepark Corp. was established in 2001 by a merger of three Mitsui subsidiaries that had engaged in sales agency of telecommunications lines and related businesses since the 1990s. Today, Telepark Corp. is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In May 2008, Telepark Corp. signed a merger agreement (scheduled) to be effective on October 1, 2008, with MS Communications Co., Ltd., a domestic large scale agency and distributor engaged in the same business line. The 47 Table of Contents merger is to establish its leading position in domestic mobile handset sales and distribution market, by reinforcing cost-efficiency. In order to further expand our sales and distribution network, we formed two joint ventures covering the Asia Pacific market with Brightstar Inc., a U.S.-based worldwide distributor of mobile handsets. In the field of electronics products, Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) acts as a sales agent for semiconductor related devices, manufacturing equipment and inspection equipment. In recent years, Mitsui Electronics Inc. has focused on providing semiconductor related products and services to Japanese customers who are shifting their production bases to China. This business unit also engages in export and offshore trading of flat-panel displays and related parts and has expanded into sales and distribution of consumer electronics durables such as LCD televisions. In July 2007, it established a subsidiary in Brazil for the sales and distribution of Japanese manufacturer Sharp Corporation’s electronic consumer and office products. This business unit is dependent on the business of our subsidiaries and associated companies, most of which are located in Japan, where technological development is rapid and competition is fierce. Our important function involves business incubation of IT related products and services, as seen in the case with Telepark Corp. and Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment The Logistics & Financial Markets Segment is engaged in transportation and logistics services, insurance and financial business in Japan and abroad. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥55.1 billion or 5.6% and ¥7.5 billion or 1.8% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment is composed of the Financial Markets Business Unit and the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, and has 33 subsidiaries including: • in the Financial Markets Business Unit, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals HK Ltd. (Hong Kong, China); and • in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. (Japan), Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan), TRI-NET (JAPAN) INC. (Japan) and Tri-Net Logistics (Asia) Pte Ltd. (Singapore). This segment has 5 associated companies including Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan) in the Financial Markets Business Unit and Mitsui Direct General Insurance Company, Limited (Japan) in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit. Financial Markets Business Unit This business unit has 22 subsidiaries and 1 associated company and is engaged in the following business activities: • trading in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”) and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities; • financial equity investments including principal investment and venture capital operation; • asset management business including real estate investment trust (“REIT”) related businesses; • development, origination and sales of financial products, investment in and portfolio management of financial products; and • leasing businesses 48 Table of Contents Mitsui and its subsidiaries such as Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals HK Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) are engaged in trading and brokerage in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the LME and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities. We are also engaged in sales and marketing of various derivative and financial instruments of our own development to investors and market participants. Mitsui & Co., Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), engages in derivative trading operations, mainly of crude oil and natural gas related commodities. Japan Alternative Investment Co., Ltd. (Japan) acts as placement agent for alternative investment products such as funds of hedge funds. In the financial equity investments field, subsidiaries such as MVC Corporation (Japan) have made investments in ventures mainly in IT and medical care businesses. Since August 2006, this business unit has had a 9.3% stake as a limited partner in a limited partnership which was established for investment in Skylark Co., Ltd., a Japanese restaurant chain. In REIT related businesses, Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd. (Japan) provides asset management service to Japan Logistics Fund Inc, a listed REIT on the Tokyo Stock Exchange that specializes in the management of investments in warehouses and distribution centers. As of end of March 2008, we have a 40.7% voting interest in Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan), a leasing company with its strengths in leasing of information-processing equipments and large scale equipment, as well as industrial machinery, aircraft and ocean vessels. Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. has agreed with Kyodo Leasing Co., Ltd. on a business merger to reinforce operating bases, and a joint holding company was established in April 2008 to combine operations of the two companies. As of March 31, 2008, this business unit has an 8.8% share of outstanding common stock in Central Finance Co., Ltd., a consumer credit and credit card company in Japan. With other parties, Mitsui is studying expansion of domestic and overseas credit card business operations and development of new businesses. Transportation Logistics Business Unit The Transportation Logistics Business Unit provides sophisticated, high value added logistics services to customers, leveraging its longstanding experience in offering such services groupwide. This business unit also seeks the development of new business domains through integrating logistics, financial and information technology. Together with 11 subsidiaries and 4 associated companies, this business unit is engaged in the following business activities: • international and domestic transportation services including transportation of plants and other special cargos, tramper shipping, and airfreight; • solutions services for logistics, including SCM; • warehousing and port services; operation, construction and management of warehouses and harbor facilities; • insurance agency and insurance consultation; and • establishment and operation of REITs which invest in logistics facilities. In the international and domestic transport services field, we have established Tri-Net (Japan) Inc. and other core subsidiaries, which are located in Japan, the Americas, Europe, South East Asia, and China. Each of those subsidiaries collaborates with the Head Office and overseas trading subsidiaries worldwide and provides international transportation services mainly using marine containers. They also provide international combined transportation services by integrating land, sea and air transportation. In the tramper business, they provide transportation services for bulky cargoes such as coal, grain and fertilizers, as well as power and chemical plant projects. 49 Table of Contents We have been making investments to expand our logistics businesses in the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China), the Middle East and other emerging markets. For example, in Russia, we have organized large scale distribution operations outside Moscow that provide services to local bases of Japanese electronics, construction machinery and automotive companies. In India, we plan joint development projects with Indian partners in a free trade warehouse zone near Delhi. Trinet Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan) operates in the field of warehousing, distribution, and port service-related business within Japan, focusing on bulk cargo transportation. Trinet Logistics Co., Ltd. was established in April 2007 by reorganizing 3 former warehousing and distribution subsidiaries. Trinet Logistics Co., Ltd. is a subsidiary of the holding company Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. (Japan). This business unit has a subsidiary, Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan), as an insurance agency. In addition, the business unit has acquired insurance companies for captive insurance and operates subsidiaries which are engaged in this business field, including Insurance Company of Trinet (USA), Inc. This business unit also maintains certain direct insurance businesses, by taking advantage of the experience and know-how in risk management of this business unit. In addition, this business unit has a 25% share interest in an associated company, Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd., a direct marketing non-life insurer, which particularly focuses on contracting through Internet. In collaboration with the Financial Markets Business Unit, this business unit has developed logistics-related real estate property REITs. This unit intends to increase the assets for such REIT programs, seeking opportunities for the development of facilities, brokerage in properties and tenants. Americas Segment The Americas Segment is engaged in sales, intermediary service and manufacturing of various commodities and conducts related business led by overseas trading subsidiaries in North, Central and South America. Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., or Mitsui U.S.A., manages the business of the segment as the center of the regional strategy. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥54.0 billion or 5.5% and ¥4.3 billion or 1.0% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment consists of 9 trading subsidiaries including Mitsui U.S.A., Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. and Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A., 30 other subsidiaries owned mainly by Mitsui U.S.A. including Steel Technologies, Inc., Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc., Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC, Novus International, Inc., CornerStone Research & Development Inc., Westport Petroleum Inc., United Grain Corp, MBK Real Estate LLC and AFC Holdings Co. and 5 associated companies. Mitsui U.S.A. is our largest overseas subsidiary, and it carries out many diversified business activities together with subsidiaries and associated companies, in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office in Japan. Mitsui U.S.A. has been leading our entry in the U.S. market, and we believe that Mitsui U.S.A. is one of the major exporters of American products. Business activities of Mitsui U.S.A.’s major operating divisions are as follows: • The Iron & Steel Products Division maintains alliances with steel makers, steel processors, and customers in the U.S. and other countries. It specializes in SCM of steel products, managing inventory and process arrangements. Steel Technologies Inc., a steel processor which operates more than 20 steel processing facilities in North America, which Mitsui U.S.A acquired in June 2007, is a core operation of this division. It processes flat-rolled steel and provides a wide range of value added services including cold strip, blanking for automotive steel plate and pickling. Among various customers, the United States automotive makers and their affiliated industry are major customers. Tubular products sales and distribution within Americas and other areas is another core operation, operated by Champion Pipe & Supply, Inc. 50 Table of Contents • The Mineral & Metal Resources Division engages in copper ingot; aluminum ingot; aluminum product; other non-ferrous metal materials; iron and steel raw materials; and steel and nonferrous metal scrap. • The Infrastructure Projects Division engages in projects of power, water treatment and supply, transportation, energy and social infrastructure in the Americas in collaboration with the Infrastructure Projects Business Unit. This division has subsidiaries such as Hydro Capital Corp. for water treatment projects in Mexico and MIT Wind Power, Inc. for wind power generation in Texas. • The Machinery Division engages in the businesses of motor vehicles, ship and marine projects, aircraft and construction and industrial machinery. It focuses on automobiles, construction machinery, outdoor power equipment, newly built vessels to major oil and shipping companies, and aircraft leasing for regional airlines. In September 2007, Mitsui U.S.A. acquired an 87.5% share interest in Affiliated Financial Corporation and BayQuest Capital Corporation. They provide automotive related financing services throughout the United States. • The Chemicals Division and the Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Division are engaged in the domestic and international trade of various chemical products. Novus International, Inc., a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary, produces and sells amino acids. In addition, Intercontinental Terminal Company is engaged in the chemical tank leasing business, and CornerStone Research & Development Inc. focuses on processing and packaging of healthcare foods and supplements. • The Energy Division specializes in the global trading of petroleum products, crude oil and petroleum coke. Westport Petroleum, Inc. is engaged in sales, trading and commercial and operational services to the energy industry with respect to pipeline and cargo trading of petroleum products throughout major international energy markets. These transactions by Westport Petroleum, Inc. account for a significant portion of our revenues from sales of products groupwide. • The Foods and Retail Division deals in grain, coffee, foods materials and other foods products. This division has a subsidiary, United Grain Corp, which invests in United Harvest, LLC, a joint venture with CHS Inc. for export facility operations for wheat and barley, and also has a 20% minority interest in WILSEY FOODS INC. See also “Foods & Retail Business Unit” for business collaboration with CHS Inc. Additionally, Mitsui Foods Inc. is specialized in the import food distribution business. • In the Consumer Service Business Division and other remaining division, MBK Real Estate LLC handles the development and sale of unit houses and senior housing properties in the California market, as well as commercial properties on the West Coast of the United States. SunWize Technologies, Inc., which Mitsui U.S.A. acquired in November 2006, engages in sales and installation of solar power systems and modules. Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment The Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment is engaged in sales and intermediary service of various commodities and conducts related businesses led by overseas trading subsidiaries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and CIS countries. Effective April 2007, the Europe, the Middle East and Africa Business Unit was formed by reorganizing the former Europe Business Unit in order to cover the businesses in these regions. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥26.8 billion or 2.7% and ¥5.0 billion or 1.2% of our consolidated totals, respectively. As of March 31, 2008, this segment consisted of 15 trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC, Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC and Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH, 4 subsidiaries and 5 associated companies. Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary with its head office in London, manages the overall business activities in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and CIS countries through 14 overseas trading subsidiaries and other branch offices and liaison offices. Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC collaborates with our subsidiaries and associated companies of other operating segments. 51 Table of Contents Recently, the major parts of business in this segment have been sales and intermediary service of steel products, chemicals and machinery. For example, this segment provided assistance services for SCM of steel products procured by Norsk Hydro ASA. In the chemical business, this segment has been engaged in sales and intermediary service of various chemical products and materials supported by our global network and relationship with large scale manufacturers including Bayer Aktiengesellschaft. Over the years, in Central and Eastern Europe, we have established trading subsidiaries and representative offices to expand business opportunities in the region, and have continuously participated in joint ventures, mainly with Japanese manufacturers. In connection with the enlargement of European Union, Japanese automobile, electric and chemical manufacturers are rushing to set up operations in the region. We are collaborating with them by taking advantage of our existing business bases. In the Middle East we have established trading subsidiaries Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. (United Arab Emirates), Mitsui and Co. (Middle East) B.S.C.(c) (Bahrain), Mitsui and Co., Iran Ltd. (Iran) and Mitsui and Co. Kuwait W.L.L. (Kuwait). Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. owns offices in United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman. Mitsui has several representative offices in the Middle East countries including Saudi Arabia. These trading subsidiaries and offices in the Middle East collaborate with the Head Office primarily in the field energy development and production and projects of petrochemical plants and power plants. Asia Pacific Segment In order to develop new business opportunities emerging with the development of network economies based around China, the ASEAN countries and India, we introduced an Asian Regional Managing Directorship system. Broad authority and responsibility to manage our businesses throughout non-Japan Asia is delegated to the Regional Managing Director, Asia starting in the year ended March 31, 2006. Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Asia Business Unit was formed and consists of the trading subsidiaries, branches and liaison offices in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated authority of operation within this region. The Asia Pacific Segment is engaged in sales and intermediary service of various commodities and conducts related businesses led by overseas trading subsidiaries in Asia and Oceania countries. Effective April 2007, the Asia Pacific Business Unit was formed by reorganizing the former Asia Business Unit and consolidating subsidiaries in Oceania region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥33.1 billion or 3.3% and ¥22.5 billion or 5.5% of our consolidated totals, respectively. As of March 31, 2008, this segment consisted of 21 trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd., Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd., Mitsui & Co., (Thailand) Ltd., Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 5 subsidiaries and 7 associated companies. China China has been a focus of recent global attention, with 11.9% and 11.6% growth in gross domestic product in 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a result of its accession to the WTO and a growing reputation as an efficient and cost effective manufacturer of goods. We have been increasing our operations in, and shifting corporate resources to, Greater China, which includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, in order to expand and strengthen our business operations involving products such as automobiles, consumer products, IT, electronics, energy and metals, while reinforcing our transportation and logistics services. Our presence in China is comprised of ten local trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd., an investing company in Beijing, Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. and six trading subsidiaries in China’s bonded areas including Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. In addition, we have established representative offices in 12 cities in China. In September 2005, Mitsui received approval from the Chinese Ministry of Commerce to establish three wholly owned trading companies, permitting us to conduct import and export and wholesale trade domestically 52 Table of Contents within China, which would enable us to trade in a broader range of products, including value added services in finance and logistics. Thus, Mitsui & Co. (China) Trading Ltd. and Mitsui & Co. (Guangdong) Ltd. were established in 2005 and started operations. Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has made investments jointly with the business units of the Head Office in critical joint ventures in China. Among others, we place a high priority on establishment of logistics network within China. For example: • In March 2003, we entered into a comprehensive strategic alliance with China Postal Logistics Co., Ltd. Through this alliance, we are in a position to utilize the facilities and distribution networks of China’s postal service, the China State Post Bureau. • Mitsui International Logistics and Trade (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., in which Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has a minority share, has the right to conduct import and export under our own name outside a bonded area. ASEAN Region In the ASEAN region, overseas offices including Kuala Lumpur and Manila branches, trading subsidiaries including Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Mitsui & Co., (Thailand) Ltd., Mitsiam International Ltd. (Thailand) and PT Mitsui Indonesia (Indonesia), and associated companies jointly collaborate with the Head Office and engage in various business activities involving, among other things, chemical and metal products and industrial type projects. With the Head Office, these branches and trading subsidiaries jointly establish various subsidiaries and participate in joint ventures formed with the third parties. In December 2006, we obtained a special approval from the Vietnamese government to establish trading subsidiaries, and Mitsui & Co. Vietnam Ltd. started operations in April 2007. Southwest Asia Our operations in India were traditionally handled by branch offices in New Delhi, Calcutta, Madras and Bombay and were concentrated primarily in exporting commodities, such as iron ore, finished iron and steel products, textiles, and marine products, to Japan and other areas of the world. However, with the increasing deregulation of the Indian economy, in March 2003 we established Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd. Through Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd., we expect not only to engage in import and export-related transactions but also to pursue investment opportunities in domestic distribution channels. Oceania In Australia, Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. is active in the development of minerals such as iron ore and coal, energy and agricultural exports in collaboration with corresponding operating segments, mainly in the Head Office. As described in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Energy Segment above, Australia is a critical geographic area in our corporate strategy. Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. participates in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) with equity shares of 20% and 30%, respectively. All Other Segment The operations of the All Other Segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us and associated companies. Gross profit and net loss for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥5.5 billion or 0.5% and minus ¥7.1 billion or minus 1.7% of our consolidated totals, respectively. The All Other Segment has 11 subsidiaries and 1 associated company. The activities of major subsidiaries in this segment are as follows: • Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. is engaged in financial services such as commercial loan and cash management services, mainly provided to domestic subsidiaries and associated companies. 53 Table of Contents • Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. (Singapore) is engaged in-house financial services in the South East Asian region. Principal Markets We are involved in the worldwide trading of various commodities. See “Item 5. A. Operating Results—Revenues” for further details of our revenues by commodity type for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues(1) Distribution by Commodity: Iron and Steel ¥ 801.3 ¥ 566.9 ¥ 481.2 Non-Ferrous Metals 79.7 99.9 102.2 Machinery 478.2 428.6 350.7 Electronics & Information 182.3 178.8 160.8 Chemicals 1,318.6 1,146.6 886.7 Energy 2,017.7 1,633.3 1,360.5 Foods 572.6 467.0 424.6 Textiles 41.3 39.8 36.4 General Merchandise 40.5 50.3 61.6 Property and Service Business 206.7 182.4 162.8 Consolidated Total ¥ 5,738.9 ¥ 4,793.6 ¥ 4,027.5 Notes: (1) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, revenues from discontinued operations are eliminated from each product amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures for the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The following table shows our total trading transactions in each of our major markets for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.(1)(2)(3) In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Japan ¥ 9,285.9 ¥ 8,903.1 ¥ 8,521.7 United States 1,323.8 1,159.1 1,245.1 China 1,119.1 885.3 867.1 All Other 5,280.3 4,324.1 4,162.6 Consolidated Total ¥ 17,009.1 ¥ 15,271.6 ¥ 14,796.5 Notes: (1) Total trading transactions is a voluntary disclosure as permitted by Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent,” and represents the gross transaction volume or the nominal aggregate value of the sales contracts in which we act as principal and transactions in which we serve as agent. Total trading transactions is not meant to represent sales or revenues in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Total trading transactions should not be construed as equivalent to, or a substitute or proxy for, revenues, or as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity or cash flows generated by operating, investing or financing activities. A substantial part of total trading transactions represents transactions in which title to and payment for the goods pass through us 54 Table of Contents without physical acquisition and delivery through our inventories. We have included the information concerning total trading transactions because it is used by similar Japanese trading companies as an industry benchmark, and we believe it is a useful supplement to results of operations data as a measure of our performance compared to other similar Japanese trading companies. Total trading transactions is included in the measure of segment profit and loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. See Notes 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” and 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION” accompanying the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) Total trading transactions are attributed to countries based on the location of customers. (3) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, total trading transactions to external customers from discontinued operations are eliminated from each geographic area amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures for the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. C. Organizational Structure We are a global general trading company and we conduct our business with our subsidiaries and associated companies. As of March 31, 2008, we had 356 subsidiaries and 202 associated companies that are accounted for by the equity method. The table below provides information on our significant subsidiaries as of March 31, 2008. We have supplementarily provided voting power where it differs from ownership interest. Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Iron & Steel Products Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd. Japan Sales of construction materials and semi-assembled steel products 100.0 Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. Singapore Wholesale and retail of steel products 85.0 MITSUI BUSSAN KOZAI HANBAI CO., LTD. Japan Wholesale of steel products 88.9 MITSUI BUSSAN STEEL TRADE CO., LTD. Japan Trading and sales of steel products 100.0 Mineral & Metal Resources Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 100.0 Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 70.0 Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Netherlands Investments in a copper mine in Chile 61.9 Mitsui Raw Materials Development Pty. Limited Australia Investment in Sims Group, a scrap metal recycler 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Raw Materials Development Corp. Japan Wholesale of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap and ferroalloys 100.0 MITSUI BUSSAN METALS SALES CO., LTD. Japan Sales of non-ferrous material products and metals 100.0 55 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Machinery & Infrastructure Projects MBK Project Holdings Ltd. Japan Investments in manufacturers of plant-related materials and equipment 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Plant Systems, Ltd. Japan Sales of various plants, electric power facilities and transportations 100.0 Mitsui Power Ventures Limited United Kingdom Investments in power generation business 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. United States Freightcar leasing and management in North America 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Participacoes Ltda. Brazil Freightcar leasing and management in Brazil 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. Netherlands Locomotive leasing and management in Europe 100.0 MRCE Dispolok GmbH Germany Locomotive leasing and management in Europe 100.0 MITSUI GAS E ENERGIA DO BRASIL LTDA. Brazil Investments in gas distribution companies 100.0 MIT POWER CANADA LP INC. Canada Investment in Greenfield Power Generation Project in Ontario 100.0 Toyota Chile S.A. Chile Import and sales of automobiles and auto parts in Chile 100.0 PT. Bussan Auto Finance Indonesia Motorcycle retail finance 90.0 Mitsui Automotive Europe B.V. Netherlands Investments in automotive-related companies and trading of automobiles 100.0 MMK CO., LTD. Japan Sales of machine tools and injection molding machine 100.0 Ellison Technologies Inc. United States Sales of machine tools 71.0 Clio Marine Inc. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Aerospace Co., Ltd. Japan Import and sales of helicopters and defense and aerospace products 100.0 Chemical P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak Indonesia Production and sales of anhydrous ammonia 75.0 Japan-Arabia Methanol Company Ltd. Japan Investments in methanol producing business in Saudi Arabia and sales of products 55.0 MITSUI BUSSAN SOLVENT & COATING CO., LTD. Japan Sales and trading of solvents and coating materials 100.0 Mitsui AgriScience International SA/NV Belgium Investments in crop protection businesses in Europe 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Agro Business Co., Ltd. Japan Development and sales of fertilizers and agricultural products 100.0 Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio Brazil Production and sales of fertilizers 100.0 DAIICHI TANKER CO., LTD. Japan Operation of chemical tankers 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Plastics Co., Ltd. Japan Wholesale of plastic raw materials and products 100.0 Nippon Trading Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of plastics and chemicals 100.0 SALT ASIA HOLDINGS PTY. LTD Australia Holdings company of Onslow Salt Pty. Ltd. 94.2 Mitsui Bussan Frontier Co., Ltd. Japan Export and SCM services for electronic parts 100.0 56 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Energy Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited Australia Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 100.0 Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. Australia Sales of crude oil and condensate 100.0 Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. Netherlands Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in Oman 80.6 100.0 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. Japan Exploration, development and sales of crude oil and natural gas 51.5 51.0 MitEnergy Upstream LLC United States Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 85.4 100.0 Mitsui Gas Development Qatar B.V. Netherlands Development and production of natural gas and condensate 100.0 Mitsui LNG Nederland B.V. Netherlands Investments in Qatar LNG project 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (E&P) B.V. Netherlands Exploration, production and investments in oil and natural gas 100.0 Mitsui E&P (USA) LLC United States Investment in MitEnergy Upstream LLC 100.0 Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. 100.0 Endeavour Resources Limited United Kingdom Investments in Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. 100.0 Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Australia Investments in Australian coal business 100.0 Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 89.9 Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of liquefied petroleum gas in Japan 100.0 Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 100.0 Foods & Retail WILSEY FOODS, INC. United States Investments in processed oil food company 90.0 MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. Japan Wholesale of foods and beverages 99.9 Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Japan Manufacture and sales of food products 51.9 87.6 DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. Japan Production, processing and sales of broilers 72.3 VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. Japan Procurement and demand chain planning and management of food materials 100.0 MCM FOODS B.V. Netherlands Import and sales of canned food products and groceries 100.0 57 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Consumer Service & IT Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. Japan Planning and management of production and distribution of apparel 100.0 Kids Station Inc. Japan Broadcasting of TV programs for children 67.0 BUSSAN REAL ESTATE Co., LTD. Japan Real estate sales, leasing and management 100.0 MBK Real Estate Europe Limited United Kingdom Real estate-related business 100.0 Telepark Corp. Japan Sales and distribution of mobile phones and agency for telecommunication services 50.8 Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. Japan Planning, development and sales of information and communication systems 58.5 58.4 J-SCube Inc. Japan Outsourcing services for data entry and other back-office tasks 100.0 Mitsui Electronics Inc. Japan Sales of electronics device and equipment 100.0 Logistics & Financial Markets Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. United Kingdom Trading of energy derivatives 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. United States Trading of precious metals 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong,China Trading of precious metals 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. Japan Investments in domestic warehousing businesses 99.8 Mitsuibussan Insurance Co., Ltd. Japan Property and casualty insurance consignment and agency services 100.0 TRI-NET (JAPAN) INC. Japan International integrated transportation services 100.0 TRI-NET LOGISTICS (ASIA) PTE LTD Singapore International integrated transportation services 100.0 Americas Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. United States Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Canada Trading 100.0 Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. Brazil Trading 100.0 Steel Technologies Inc. United States Steel processing 100.0 Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. United States Sales of steel pipes 94.0 Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC United States Chemical Tank Leasing 100.0 Novus International, Inc. United States Manufacture and sales of feed additives 65.0 CornerStone Research & Development, Inc. United States Processing and packaging of healthcare foods and supplements 100.0 Westport Petroleum, Inc. United States International trading of petroleum products and crude oil 100.0 United Grain Corp. United States Grain merchandising 100.0 MBK Real Estate LLC United States Real estate-related business 100.0 AFC HoldCo, LLC United States Investment in auto finance companies 87.5 58 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Europe, the Middle East and Africa Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC United Kingdom Management of business in Europe and Africa 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC United Kingdom Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH Germany Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Benelux S.A./N.V. Belgium Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. France S.A.S. France Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Italia S.p.A. Italy Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. United ArabEmirates Trading 100.0 Asia Pacific Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. Singapore Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong,China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (China) Ltd. China Management of business in China 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (China) Trading Ltd. China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. Taiwan Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Korea Ltd. Republic ofKorea Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand Trading 100.0 Mitsiam International Ltd. Thailand Trading 51.2 55.0 Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Australia Trading 100.0 All Other Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. Japan Financial services 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V. Netherlands Financial services 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd. Singapore Financial services 100.0 (1) Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd. changed its name from Mitsui Bussan Construction Materials Co., Ltd. in October 2007. (2) Mitsui Bussan Raw Materials Development Corp. merged MITSUI BUSSAN METALS SALES CO., LTD. in April 2008 and changed its name to Mitsui Bussan Metals Co., Ltd. (3) Mitsui & Co. Plant Systems, Ltd. changed its name from Mitsui & Co. Project Corp. in April 2007. (4) MMK CO., LTD. changed its name to Mitsui Bussan Machine Tec Co., Ltd. in April 2008. (5) Nippon Trading Co., Ltd. merged Mitsui Bussan Plastics Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Bussan Plastics Kansai Co., Ltd. in April 2008 and changed its name to Mitsui Bussan Plastics Trade Co., Ltd. (6) DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. changed its name to PRI Foods Co., Ltd. in April 2008. (7) Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. and NextCom K.K. merged in April 2007. (8) J-SCube Inc. was established upon reorganization of TOYO Officemation Inc. in July 2007. (9) Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC changed its name from Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC in May 2007. (10) Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC changed its name from Mitsui & Co. UK PLC in May 2007. 59 Table of Contents D. Property, Plants and Equipment. The following table provides a list of our principal property, plants and equipment as of March 31, 2008. (Sft: Square feet, MT: Metric Ton) Property, Plant and Equipment Description(Holder or Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Size or AnnualProductionCapacity Use of property In Japan: Mitsuibussan Building Tokyo 1,321,572 Sft Office use (Corporate Headquarters) Osaka Mitsuibussan Building Osaka 450,306 Sft Office use Nagoya Mitsuibussan Building Nagoya 152,067 Sft Office use Hibiya Central Building Tokyo 504,419 Sft Office building for lease Bussan Building Annex Tokyo 204,275 Sft Office building for lease Company Housing & Dormitory Chiba 130,010 Sft Employees’ residential facility Human Resource Development Center Shizuoka 83,863 Sft Training facility Land and equipment (Sintsuda Corporation) Yokohama 197,324 Sft Coil center Land and equipment (Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd.) Ishikawa 852,072 Sft Liquefied petroleum gas terminal Land (MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.) Saitama 71,171 Sft Distribution center Land and equipment (DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD.) Aomori 46,102 Sft Broiler processing factory Land and equipment (Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd.) Yamanashi 339,871 Sft Tea leaf processing factory Land and equipment (San-ei Sucrochemical Co., Ltd.) Aichi 817,433 Sft Dextrose manufacturing factory Wakamatsu Building & Shinsuna Bayside Building (Bussan Real Estate Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 172,406 Sft Office building for lease Higashi Nakano Office Building (Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 36,317 Sft Office use Land (Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd.) Chiba 649,753 Sft Logistics center Overseas: Office space (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 155,530 Sft Office space leased from others Office building (Mitsui & Co. UK PLC) United Kingdom 64,369 Sft Office use Equipment (Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 22,706,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 2,997,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Land and plants (P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak) Indonesia 579,397 Sft Ammonia manufacturing plant Equipment (Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 5,936,000 Mt Mining equipment for coal Office building (MBK Real Estate Europe Limited) United Kingdom 75,486 Sft Office building for lease Land and equipment (Steel Technologies Inc.) United States 228,901 Sft Coil center Chemical tank yard (Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC) United States 11,495,355 Sft Chemical tank Senior service apartment (MBK Real Estate, Ltd.) United States 146,628 Sft Leasing asset Land and plants (Novus International, Inc.) United States 658,187 Sft Methionine production facility (1) Information on our mining activities related to Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd., Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. that are located in Australia is shown in “Mineral & Metal Resources Segment” of “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Mining Activities” below. 60 Table of Contents In addition to the above, our major assets leased to others as of March 31, 2008 were as below: • Clio Marine Inc. (Liberia), Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. (Liberia) and LPG Transport Service Ltd. (Bermuda) own ocean vessels leased to foreign and domestic shipping companies whose combined book value amounts to ¥31 billion; and • Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. (Netherlands) own rolling stock mainly leased to railway companies in the United States and European countries amounting to ¥65 billion as book value. For information on oil and gas producing activities, see “Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. A portion of the land, buildings and equipment owned by us is subject to mortgages or other liens. As of March 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of such mortgages or other liens was ¥34 billion. We know of no material defect in our title to any of the properties nor of any material adverse claim with respect to them, either pending or contemplated. We consider our offices and other facilities to be well maintained and believe that our plant capacity is adequate for our current requirements. For the information on plans to construct, expand or improve facilities, in particular those related to mineral resource projects and oil and gas projects, see relevant descriptions in “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company—Capital Expenditures,” “Mineral & Metal Resources Segment” and “Energy Segment” of “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Mining Activities” below in this section. We do not believe there are any material environmental issues that would affect the utilization of our assets. 61 Table of Contents Mining Activities Information regarding our mining activities is provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(1) Location Type ofMineralResources(2) Fe Basis(%) Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J(3) Robe Valley, north of the town of Pannawonica Pisolite 57.2 Railway and port (owned by Robe River Iron Associates and operated by Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd.) Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia Open pit Supplied through the integrated Hamersley and Robe power network operated by Pilbara Iron West Angelas(3) Approximately 100 km west of the town of Newman Marra Mamba 61.8 Same as above Same as above Open pit Same as above Name of Mines(2) Location Type ofMineralResources(3) Fe Basis(%) Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source Mt. Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mt. Whaleback Near the town of Newman, 426 km south of Port Hedland Brockman Marra Mamba 62.6 62.2 Railway (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) and port in Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) Mineral lease granted in 1967 under the Iron Ore (Mt. Newman) Agreement Act 1964 scheduled to expire in 2009 with rights for successive renewals for 21 years Open cut Sourced from Alinta Dewap via Company-owned powerlines Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek 92 km north of Newman, 310 km south of Port Hedland Channel Iron Deposit 57.5 Rail spur (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) connected to the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mt. Newmani Joint Venture) and port in Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) Mining lease granted in 1991 under the Iron Ore (Marillana Creek) Agreement Act 1991 scheduled to expire in 2012 with the right to extend for additional 42 years Open cut Sourced from Alinta Dewap via Company-owned powerlines 62 Table of Contents Name of Mines(2) Location Type ofMineralResources(3) Fe Basis(%) Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Northern (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 210 km east of Port Hedland Nimingarra 59.9 Railway (owned and operated by Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture) and the Nelson Point shipping facilities at Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) Four mineral leases under the Iron Ore (Mt. Goldsworthy) Agreement Act 1964 and the Iron Ore (Goldsworthy— Nimingarra) Agreement Act 1972, which have expiry dates between 2007 and 2014 with rights to successive renewals of 21 years. Open cut Sourced from Alinta Dewap Area C 120 km northwest of Newman, 37 km southwest of Yandi Marra Mamba 61.9 Rail spur (owned by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) connecting to the Yandi spur line (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) and then onto the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) and the Finucane Island shipping facilities at Port Hedland (owned and operated by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Same as above Open cut Sourced from Newman Power (1) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (2) “Pisolite”, “Marra Mamba”, “Brockman”, “Channel Iron Deposit” and “Nimingarra” refer to the types of iron ore that are found in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. (3) The percentage figures of “Fe Basis” of Mesa J and West Angelas represent the figures corresponding to mines, excluding the figures corresponding to stockpile components. 63 Table of Contents COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest(2) Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(3) Location Type ofResources Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) (20%) Queensland, Australia South Walker Creek In the Bowen Basin, 100 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway (Queensland Rail) and port in Mackay Leases expire in 2020 and renewable for such periods as the Queensland Government allows. Open cut State ownedgrid Poitrel Same as above Same asabove Same as above Same as above Same asabove Same asabove Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla 4 km west of Muswellbrook in the Upper Hunter Valley Thermal coal Railway and port at Newcastle Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel In the Bowen Basin, 200 km west of Rockhampton Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State ownedgrid Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) In the Bowen Basin 184 km south-west of Gladstone Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek In the Bowen Basin, 200 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State ownedgrid (1) “BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.” indicates the name of the company established by BHP Billiton plc and Mitsui. (2) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. is our associated company in which Mitsui has 20% interest. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. is our subsidiary which owns interests in Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Dawson Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture. (3) “Name of mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. 64 Table of Contents A brief history and the present condition of each of the above-mentioned mines, including the current state of development, if applicable, are provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J The development of the Robe River project began in 1962(*) near Pannawonica. The Robe River project was commissioned and the first shipment was made in 1972. Iron ore reserves at the Mesa J production Base provide the cornerstone of Pannawonica’s sinter fines and lump output. Development of Mesa J began in 1992, and all mine administration, workshops, warehousing and other support facilities were integrated there in 1994. The mine produces Rove River fines and lump, which are pisolitic iron ore products. Process Plant 1 was commissioned in 1999 and Process Plant 2 in 2001. The plant processes clay-contaminated pisolite, sub-grade material which was once discarded, to reduce contaminants and retain on-specification ore. In December 2007, the joint venture decided to develop Mesa A / Warramboo mine which will have a full scale capacity of 25 million tons per annum and is expected to start production in 2010. The total capital cost will be estimated at US$901 million. The total mine life of Mesa A is expected to be 11 years. With this addition, total production of Robe Valley pisolite ore will be maintained at 32 million tons per annum. West Angelas The development of West Angelas began in 1998. Mining of ore commenced in March 2002. The West Angelas deposits contain Marra Mamba type iron ore with higher iron content than Robe River’s Mesa J mine. The West Angelas operation is comprised of an open pit mine, a crushing and screening ore processing plant producing lump and sinter fines iron ore, as well as stockpiling, reclaiming and train-loading facilities. Further expansion of the West Angelas mine was completed ahead of schedule in October 2005. This US$105 million project took the mine’s production capacity to 25 million tons per year. Robe River Iron Associates uses a dedicated rail system, operated by Pilbara Iron, to transport ore from its mines to the company’s deepwater port facilities at Cape Lambert. Also, a US$200 million rail expansion project to duplicate almost 100 kilometers of track and associated interconnection and infrastructure to increase the capacity of the Pilbara Iron main line completed in the first quarter of 2006. In January 2007, a further expansion plan was decided to increase port capacity at Cape Lambert from nameplate capacity of 55 to 80 million tones per year by the end of 2008. Completion of the expansion is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2008 and the total cost of the capital is estimated approximately US$860 million. (*) The Robe River project was originally started by Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company, an iron and steel producer in the United States. Since then, there were major changes in ownership before Rio Tinto took a 53% stake in Robe River Iron Associates in 2000. Mt. Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mt. Whaleback The joint venture began production in 1969 at the Mt. Whaleback ore body. Today, production continues to be sourced from the major Mt. Whaleback ore body and is complemented by production from other ore bodies, namely Orebody 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30 and Jimblebar, which we are involved in through the Wheelarra arrangement with BHP Iron Ore (Jimblebar) Pty Ltd, Itochu Minerals & Energy Australia Pty Ltd, and 4 Chinese steel companies. The facilities at Mt. Whaleback include primary and secondary crushing plants with a nominal capacity of 35 million tons of product per year, a heavy media beneficiation plant with an annual capacity of 8 million tons and a train-loading facility. An additional primary and secondary crushing plant is present at Orebody 25 with a nominal capacity of 8 million tons of product per year. 65 Table of Contents Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek Development of the ore body began in 1991 with a capacity of 10 million tons per annum and the project’s first shipment of iron ore was in March 1992. Capacity was progressively expanded between 1994 and 2003 and the current capacity is 42 million tons per annum. Two processing plants and a primary crusher and overland conveyor are used to crush and screen the Yandi ore and deliver it to one of two train loading facilities. Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Northern (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Mt. Goldsworthy was commissioned in 1966 in the North Area. The original Goldsworthy mine was closed in 1982 and mining operations ceased at Shay Gap mine in 1993. Since then, mining has continued from the adjacent Nimingarra and Yarrie, 30 kilometers to the south-east. Two primary crushers exist, one at Yarrie and the other at Nimingarra. The ore is crushed and then railed to Port Hedland. Area C In October 2003, the joint venture opened the new Area C mine located 120 kilometers north-west of Newman, which produces a Marra Mamba ore deposit, which is sold under the trademark MAC. All production from the Mt. Goldsworthy Northern (Yarrie and Nimingarra) is transported on a separate railway to Port Hedland. Ore from Area C is transported via a 39 kilometer new section of railway to the Yandi mine which then connects to the Newman main line to Port Hedland. Development projects at joint ventures with BHP Billiton Ltd. The three joint ventures, namely, Mt. Newman joint venture, Yandi joint venture and Mt. Goldsworthy joint venture have been planning for staged expansions of supply capacity. As a step, in October 2005 they approved an expansion plan to add 20 million tons per annum to their capacity, upgrading combined capacity to 129 million tons per annum by 2007. The capital expenditure for the expansion work totaled A$2.2 billion (Mitsui’s share was approximately A$150 million). The expansion focused mainly on the Area C mine and encompassed expansions of rail systems and the loading port. In addition, in March 2007, the joint ventures approved to increase annual production capacity to 155 million tons per annum by 2010. The capital expenditure for the expansion will total approximately A$2.7 billion. The expansion includes development of a new crushing and screening plant, as well as additional stockyard, car dumping and train loading facilities at Mt. Whaleback. Furthermore, in February 2008, the joint venture agreed to approve US$1,094 million of capital investment representing pre approval of expenditure involving the duplication of the railway track between the Yandi mine and Port Hedland, and the expansion of Port Hedland, in parallel with current construction, with the aim being to increase annual production capacity to 200 million tons per annum by 2011. 66 Table of Contents COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia South Walker Creek The joint venture commissioned Riverside in 1983, and its reserves were depleted in March 2005. South Walker Creek became operational in 1998. It produces pulverized coal injection fuel and minor quantities of by- product energy coal. South Walker Creek has a production capacity of four million tons per year. Exploration has increased the reserve base in the past year. BHP Mitsui Coal holds undeveloped leases in the Bowen Basin. Poitrel The mine was commissioned during the December 2006 quarter. The mine has a production capacity of 3.0 million tons per annual of metallurgical and PCI coals. Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla Development consent was granted in 1996 and production commenced in 1999. Coal & Allied, Rio Tinto’s subsidiary in Australia, acquired its interest in Bengalla in 2001. Its coal preparation plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash thermal coal for export. Production in 2007 was 5.2 million tons of thermal coal. Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel The Kestrel Coal mine, previously known as Gordonstone Mine, commenced operation in 1992. Coal is extracted by underground mining. The mine has two longwall units that are operated alternately to minimize downtime and ensure seamless production and reliability. The Kestrel Preparation Plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash coking coal and high energy thermal coal. Production in 2007 was 3.6 million tons saleable high quality coking coal and export thermal coal. In January 2008, joint venture approved development of the new mining area for extend the operation period of Kestrel Joint Venture as the existing mining area is expected to be exhausted in 2014. Construction of this project will start within 2008 upon obtaining the government’s approvals and the total capital expenditure will be A$1,443 million. The operation is expected to commence in 2012 and the project estimates a maximum 6.5 million tons per annum coal production with 20-year operation. Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) Dawson Joint Venture was originally called Moura Joint Venture. The Moura Mine commenced operation in 1961. Since 1994, all production at Moura has been from its surface operation. Production tonnage has been increasing steadily throughout the years. After a few changes of ownership, Anglo Coal acquired a 51% share in 2002. In September 2003, the adjacent Theodore deposit was developed which further expanded its capacity. Anglo Coal Australia and Mitsui Coal Holdings intend to recapitalize their existing operations at the Moura mine and to establish two additional operations on adjacent tenures. The new and expanded operations are known as the Dawson Complex. Moura Joint Venture has already changed its name to Dawson Joint Venture. The joint venture’s capital expenditure was estimated in excess of A$1 billion. Expansion work of the Dawson complex was completed in the year ended March 31, 2008, aiming to boost annual coal production from the present capacity of 6.5 million tons per annum to 12.7 million tons of metallurgical and thermal coals. German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek Open pit mining commenced in 1981. Underground mining in the Central Colliery area started in 1984, while underground mining in the Southern Colliery area began in 1988. Grasstree is a new underground mine which commenced production in 2006 and produces hard coking coal for our export markets. In addition, the joint venture has started the development of Lake Lindsay mine, a new open cut mine adjacent to German Creek mine, with estimated ultimate completion during 2008, to increase the aggregate annual production from 6 to 10 million tons per annum and to extend the total joint venture’s mine life by about 11 years. 67 Table of Contents Production Tonnage IRON ORE Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. In Thousands of Tons Year Ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s SubsidiaryorAssociated Company Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Pannawonica 26,132 8,624 28,960 9,557 30,129 9943 West Angelas 26,756 8,829 24,866 8,206 21,149 6,979 Mt. Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Mt. Whaleback(1) 42,808 2,997 39,828 2,788 36,021 2,521 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Marillana Creek 46,253 3,238 40,872 2,861 40,335 2,823 Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Northern (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 1,041 73 3,341 234 7,089 496 Area C 27,744 1,942 24,011 1,681 20,471 1,433 Sesa Goa Limited(2) Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa — — 4,125 2,104 3,998 2,039 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka — — 1,433 736 1,578 805 TOTAL 170,734 25,703 167,446 28,167 160,770 27,039 (1) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (2) We sold our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited in April 2007. 68 Table of Contents COAL Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. In Thousands of Tons Year Ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia Riverside — — — — 2,384 477 South Walker Creek 3,422 684 3,049 610 3,273 655 Poitrel 1,438 288 373 75 — — Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New SouthWales,Australia 5,155 516 5,544 554 5,965 596 Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 3,621 724 3,592 718 3,720 744 Dawson Joint Venture (formerly “Moura Joint Venture”) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 5,984 2,932 6,903 3,382 6,200 3,038 German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 5,880 1,764 4,522 1,357 5,086 1,526 TOTAL 25,500 6,908 23,983 6,696 26,628 7,036 Reserve Tonnage IRON ORE Reserves of iron ore classified according to operator are presented in the tables below. Operator: Rio Tinto Ltd.(1)(2) Reserves as disclosed by Rio Tinto Ltd. consist of proved and probable reserves. In Millions of Tons Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary orAssociated Company Location TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Pannawonica(3) 304 100 345 114 303 100 West Angelas(3) 391 129 408 135 394 130 (1) Iron ore reserves are shown as recoverable reserves of saleable product after accounting for all mining and processing losses. Mill recoveries are not shown. (2) Reserves of Robe River Iron Associates indicate reserves as of the end of December 2007, 2006 and 2005. (3) Stockpile components of reserves are included. 69 Table of Contents Operator: BHP Billiton Ltd.(1)(2)(3) Reserve amounts of Mt. Newman, Yandi and Mt. Goldsworthy consist of proved and probable reserves. In Millions of Tons Year Ended June 30, 2007 2006 2005 Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Mt. Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Mt. Whaleback(4) 847 59 799 56 836 59 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Marillana Creek 913 64 848 59 860 60 Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,WesternAustralia Northern (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 3 0 7 0 14 1 Area C 418 29 442 31 474 33 (1) Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are 100% except for Mt. Newman Joint Venture for which metallurgical recovery is 92%. (2) For Mt. Newman, Mt. Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures tonnages represent wet tons based on the following moisture contents: BKM - 3%, MM - 4%, CID - 8%, NIM - 3.5%. Iron ore is marketed as Lump (direct blast furnace feed) and Fines (sinter plant feed). (3) The reserves are divided into joint ventures and material types that reflect the various products produced. The West Australian ore types are classified as per the host Archaean or Proterozoic banded iron formations. Ore types are BKM – Brockman, MM – Marra Mamba, NIM – Nimingarra, CID – Channel Iron Deposit. (4) Mining dilution and mining recovery (in general around 95%) has been taken into account in the estimation of reserves. (5) Changes to the reserves as of 2007 compared to 2006 are due to mining depletion, new models and/or reclassification for the Mt. Newman JV Whaleback, OB24 Far West, OB25 Pit 3 and OB18 deposits; Yandi JV Central 2 and 5, Eastern 1, 3, 5 and 6 deposits; Area C E and F Deposits. (6) Cut-off grades used to estimate reserves: Mt. Newman 50–62%Fe for BKM, 60%Fe for MM; Mt. Goldsworthy 58%Fe for NIM, 57%Fe for MM; Yandi 56%Fe for CID. (7) Reserves provided in the table above indicate reserves as of the end of June 2007, 2006 and 2005. (8) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. 70 Table of Contents COAL In the table below, coal reserves are shown as marketable reserves, which are tonnage after accounting for extraction and processing and preparation losses. In Millions of Tons Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Year Ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Operator Location TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) BHP Billiton Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia South Walker Creek 35 7 34 7 45 9 Poitrel 51 10 — — — — Bengalla Joint Venture(2) Rio Tinto Ltd. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New South Wales, Australia 137 14 150 15 155 16 Kestrel Joint Venture(2) Rio Tinto Ltd. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 136 27 112 22 116 23 Dawson Joint Venture(2) (formerly Moura Joint Venture) Anglo American Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 281 138 288 141 298 146 German Creek Joint Venture(2) (including Lake Lindsay Mine) Anglo American Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 140 42 168 50 177 53 TOTAL 780 238 752 235 791 247 (1) Reserves of BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. indicates reserves as of the end of June 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2008 reserves means reserves as of the end of June 2007. Poitrel mine commenced production in November 2006. (2) Reserves of Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Dawson Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture indicate reserves as of the end of December 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 2008 reserves mean reserves as of the end of December 2007. We hold a 15% profit share in Valepar S.A., which held a 32.5% profit share of the common stock and preferred stock of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“Vale”) as of December 31, 2007. Accordingly, 4.9% (32.5% x 15%) of Vale’s production and reserve amounts are indirectly attributable to us. The following table provides iron ore production and reserve amounts for Vale, and Mitsui’s share of the production and reserve amounts of Vale. Production Tonnage (for the year ended December 31) Millions of Tons 2007 2006 2005 Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share 295.9 14.4 264.2 12.9 233.9 11.9 Proven and Probable Reserves (as of December 31) Millions of Tons 2007 2006 2005 Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share 7,267.8 353.9 7,619.3 371.0 7,981.8 407.7 71 Table of Contents Oil and Gas Producing Activities The following table shows crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas production from our reserves for the three fiscal years indicated: Production Information Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate andNatural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Year EndedMarch 31, OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others 2008 16 3 2 5 1 27 107 6 5 44 3 165 2007 11 3 1 6 4 25 96 6 3 45 6 156 2006 1 3 — 5 5 14 2 6 — 57 39 104 The following tables show proved reserves and proved developed reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas as of the ending date of three fiscal years indicated: Proved Reserve Information: Proved Reserves Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate andNatural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide As of March 31, OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others 2008 74 (4) 18 14 35 4 (5) 145 664 (4) 32 31 722 189 (5) 1,638 2007 72 (4) 23 15 37 91 238 344 (4) 31 38 740 1,668 2,821 2006 55 23 — 39 104 221 80 40 — 801 1,789 2,710 Proved Developed Reserves(2) Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate andNatural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide As of March 31, OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others 2008 55 (4) 14 11 20 3 102 322 (4) 15 21 454 182 994 2007 46 (4) 18 11 21 24 120 299 (4) 19 24 385 11 738 2006 7 18 — 13 25 63 56 39 — 263 67 425 (1) 1 barrel of crude oil = 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas (2) The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves was about 34 percent as of March 31, 2007 and relatively low. The expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves were estimated to be ¥502 billion in total as of March 31, 2007. The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves was about 64 percent as of March 31, 2008 and the expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves are estimated to be ¥248 billion in total as of March 31, 2008. This large proportion change is mainly due to the reduction of Mitsui’s interest in Sakhalin II project. (3) The proved gas reserves are restricted to those volumes that are related to firm sales commitments. 72 Table of Contents (4) Includes total proved reserves attributable to Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. of 19 million and 37 million barrels of Crude oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids and 265 billions and 636 billions of cubic feet of Natural Gas as of March 2007 and 2008, as well as proved developed reserves of 18 million and 18 million barrels of Crude oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids and 227 billions and 294 billions of cubic feet of Natural Gas in March 2007 and 2008, respectively, in which there were a 49.7 percent and a 48.5 percent minority interest. (5) Includes decreases of 96 million barrels in sales of Crude oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids and 1,658 billions of cubic feet in sales of Natural Gas in place, which were mainly related to the reduction of Mitsui’s interest in Sakhalin II project. Information on our oil and gas producing activities is shown in the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Also see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results by Operating Segment—Energy Segment.” Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments We are a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. There are no written comments which have been provided by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic reports under that Act not less than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and which remain unresolved as of the date of the filing of this Form 20-F with the Commission and which we believe are material. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements that appear elsewhere in this annual report. Please note that you should be aware that this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. As used in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, “Mitsui” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Bussan Kabushiki Kaisha), and “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to indicate Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. In the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the “Company” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd., and the “companies” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Note” throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects relate to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. Throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, we describe the domicile of our subsidiaries and associated companies in parentheses following names of those companies. For example, Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. (Australia) means that the company’s name is Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. and that it is domiciled in Australia. Operations of a subsidiary that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale have been accounted for as discontinued operations under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). This means that income statement and cash flow information is reclassified for past years to separate the discontinued operations from our continuing operations. This presentation is required by U.S. GAAP and facilitates historical and future trend analysis of our continuing operations. Key Performance Measures under Management’s Discussion Although our operating results and financial condition are influenced by various factors, management believes that as of the end of the fiscal year under review the following indicators can be usefully employed to discuss trends in our performance and financial condition. 73 Table of Contents Gross profit, operating income* and equity in earnings of associated companies We undertake worldwide business activities, involving diversified risk-return profiles, ranging from intermediary services as agent to development and production activities of mineral resources and energy. In this context, changes in the amounts of gross profit, operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies by operating segment reflect the overall progress of our business, and greatly affect the amount of net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income. For further information, refer to the table of “Operating Segment Information” and subsequent discussions in “Operating Results by Operating Segment” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. Trends in the price of and supply-demand for mineral resources and energy In recent years, we have observed a rapid growth in the operating results from our mineral resources and energy producing activities; and, the significance of these operations to our overall operating results has increased dramatically. These results have been brought on by rising prices as well as increased production, reflecting globally tightened supply-demand balance and increased prices of mineral resources and energy that have been driven by expanding demand from emerging countries, particularly China. Furthermore, management recognize that for some time to come such global supply-demand balance and price fluctuations of mineral resources and energy will continuously have a material impact, positive or negative, on our operating results, financial condition and business. For further information regarding trends and prospects in this field, refer to the sections relating to the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Energy Segment in “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Investment plans and cash flow from investing activities; and financial leverage Consistent with our Medium-Term Management Outlook announced in May 2006, we have established a group-wide strategic business portfolio, by leveraging proactive investment activities in the four business areas of Mineral Resources and Energy Area; Global Marketing Networks Area, including steel products, chemicals and machinery; Infrastructure Area, including power generation; and Consumer Services Area, including outsourcing services and content businesses. In parallel, management monitors the progress of investment plans quarterly and addresses divestitures of existing assets in order to maintain an optimum portfolio structure and also to generate additional cash flows as a source for the above-mentioned investments. Mitsui is monitoring and managing a group-wide financial leverage seeking to secure an efficient return on equity as well as maintaining and improving credit ratings and financial stability in order to secure necessary capital resources for investments as well as to refinance our interest bearing debt. For further information regarding details of expenditures and our financial policy, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Results of Operations Summary of Operations for the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Principal developments in the economic environment that influenced our operations during the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 included the following: Operating Environment for the Year Ended March 31, 2008 The global economy continued to expand vigorously supported by generally sound fundamentals and strong momentum in the Asian economy, led by China, and resilient activities in Europe and Japan, despite increasing uncertainty about the outlook of the United States with concerns that financial market strains could deepen and trigger a more pronounced economic slowdown. * Operating Income Operating income is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income is comprised of our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses and (c) provision for doubtful receivables, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. 74 Table of Contents Continued run-up of prices of internationally traded commodities such as metals and crude oil, as well as continued strong growth of domestic demand in emerging countries, including BRICs, for capital investment and consumption were the two major factors influencing the operating results and businesses of Mitsui and its subsidiaries. These factors particularly boosted operating results of our mineral resources and energy related activities and supported steady business performance in steel products, machinery & infrastructure and chemicals. On a regional basis, the business sentiment in the United States, which enjoyed moderate growth during the first half of the year as a result of healthy consumer spending, reflecting robust performance in the business sector and growth in real disposable income, deteriorated significantly in the second half, reflecting financial stress which erupted in August 2007 as the subprime mortgage market was derailed, leading to tightening of credit conditions, considerable deceleration of consumer spending due to sharp increases in the prices of crude oil and food products, as well as softening of the labor market. The European economy slowed down moderately as construction investments peaked out in the region. In Japan, exports of automotive, steel and chemical products to emerging economies drove a high level of industrial production. On the other hand, uncertainties increased in the corporate and household sectors reflecting a decline in construction investments caused by revision of the Japanese building standards regulation as well as rising prices of material costs and consumer goods including foodstuffs. Looking into financial and foreign exchange markets, the Federal Reserve Board of the United States (“FRB”) implemented a series of interest rate cuts to try to stabilize the financial market. In foreign exchange markets, the U.S. dollar continued to depreciate against most major currencies, and fell below ¥100/ U.S. dollar in March 2008, the lowest value in 13 years. Furthermore, stock markets worldwide saw falling share prices in the latter half of the fiscal year. Operating Environment for the Year Ended March 31, 2007 During the year ended March 31, 2007, the global economy overall continued its steady expansion. In the United States, corporate profits remained robust and consumer spending continued to increase due to favorable employment and wage conditions, and despite an easing in housing investment, which had been overheating, the economy performed steadily overall. In Asia, sustained high growth in China has continued, driven by further increases in capital investments within the region and exports to other regions. In Europe, the economy demonstrated a clear recovery trend, as illustrated by the growth of exports in Germany and other factors. This broad-based expansion of the global economy underpinned strong international commodities markets. Prices of crude oil, mineral resources, non-ferrous metals and other commodities reached record-high levels in the summer, and despite falling thereafter, remained at high levels. The global trend towards steadily higher interest rates continued. In the United States, the FRB, which had continued to raise interest rates progressively since June 2004, maintained a constant rate beginning in June 2006. In Europe, the European Central Bank continued to raise interest rates since 2005. The Japanese economy continued its solid recovery. Exports continued to increase, bolstered by global economic expansion and the weakening yen. Strong corporate sector results led to high growth in capital investment, while improvements in employment and wages led to firmer consumer spending. The Bank of Japan decided to terminate its zero interest rate policy in July 2006, and raised the policy interest rate in February 2007, reflecting the robust recovery of the economy and consumer prices turning positive. In foreign exchange rates, the yen continued to weaken, particularly against the Euro, against which the yen recorded its lowest level since the introduction of the Euro in 1999. 75 Table of Contents Overview of the Financial Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2008 • Operating results — We recorded consolidated net income of ¥410.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, a significant increase of ¥108.6 billion, or 36.0 %, from ¥301.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In regards to the individual segments, the Mineral & Metal Resources and the Energy businesses made outstanding performances with increases of ¥78.7 billion and ¥48.4 billion, respectively, reflecting substantial one-off gains on divestitures such as Sesa Goa Limited in India and Sakhalin II in Russia as well as increases in energy equity production and mineral resource prices. The Iron & Steel Products, the Chemicals and the Machinery and Infrastructure Projects businesses continued to post robust results, and the Foods & Retail business, which had recorded significant impairment losses in the previous years, improved its performance by ¥22.8 billion with restructuring efforts paying off. — The Americas recorded a downturn by ¥12.6 billion from write downs on inventories in the residential home businesses and a slowdown in its businesses in the United States, triggered by the subprime mortgage issues. In addition, several business units at the headquarters of Mitsui, including the Automotive and the Financial Markets businesses, recorded write downs on domestic listed securities. • Financial condition Total assets as of March 31, 2008 were ¥9.7 trillion, a decrease of ¥0.1 trillion from ¥9.8 trillion as of March 31, 2007. Despite active investing activities mainly at the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects, the Mineral & Metal Resources, the Energy and the Americas segments combined total of investments and plants, property and equipment (“PPE”) decreased by ¥0.2 trillion due to: — a partial divestiture of our stake in the Sakhalin II project by ¥0.2 trillion; and — the impact from a decline in the domestic stock market and appreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in net ¥0.2 trillion decrease in combined sum of unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and foreign currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As of March 31, 2008, shareholders’ equity was ¥2.2 trillion as a result of current year earnings, and Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (“Net DER”)(*) was 1.27 times, 0.20 times lower than that of March 31, 2007. Return on Equity (“ROE”) during the period on an annualized basis is computed as 19.1%. • Cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥415.8 billion, an increase of ¥176.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting steady growth in operating income. Net cash used by investing activities was ¥104.8 billion, reflecting the above-mentioned new investments and expansion projects largely offset by the material divestitures of interests in Sakhalin II, Sesa Goa, and other assets. Overview of the Financial Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2007 • Operating results — For the year ended March 31, 2007, we recorded consolidated net income of ¥301.5 billion, an increase of ¥99.1 billion, or 49.0%, from ¥202.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Most operating segments except for the Foods & Retail Segment recorded improved operating results, benefiting from a favorable economic environment. (*) Net DER is comprised of “net interest bearing debt” divided by shareholders’ equity. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 76 Table of Contents — Gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies increased by ¥81.7 billion, or 10.4%; and ¥58.9 billion, or 62.5%, respectively, reflecting favorable commodity prices including mineral resources and energy. On the other hand, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets. In addition, interest expenses increased from increasing interest bearing debt mainly associated with the investment in the Sakhalin II project as well as a rising U.S. dollar interest rate. • Financial condition Total assets as of March 31, 2007 increased to ¥9.8 trillion, an increase of ¥1.2 trillion over March 31, 2006 due mainly to investments in energy, mineral resources and infrastructure businesses as well as an increase in trade receivables. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2007 was ¥2.1 trillion as a result of increased retained earnings. • Cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥239.3 billion, an increase of ¥92.9 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006 reflecting the steady growth of operating income. Net cash used in investing activities was ¥418.0 billion, attributable to investments mainly in the energy, machinery and infrastructure projects, and in the mineral resources businesses. Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Fluctuation on Operating Results for 2008 Total sum of net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 reported by overseas subsidiaries and associated companies reached ¥306.9 billion, compared to ¥252.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. These companies principally use U.S. dollars, Australian dollars and Brazilian real as functional currency in their reporting. The average U.S. dollar–Japanese yen exchange rate during the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥113.80 = U.S.$1, representing Japanese yen appreciation of ¥3.16, or 2.7%, compared to the average rate during the year ended March 31, 2007 of ¥116.96 = U.S.$1. As of March 31, 2008, the U.S. dollar–Japanese yen exchange rate was ¥100.19 = U.S.$1. During the course of preparing our business plan for the year ending March 31, 2009, we constructed a simplified estimation for the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on net income for the year ending March 2009 as follows: a) Japanese yen denominated impact against the U.S. dollar, Australian dollar and Brazilian Real We aggregated a total forecast net income in the business plans of these companies covering the year ending March 2009 according to their functional currencies. Firstly, we aggregated the Australian dollar and Brazilian real denominated forecast net income of those companies using two currencies as functional currency, and secondly we aggregated the rest of the net income at overseas subsidiaries and associated companies as US dollar equivalent amount. We conducted a sensitivity analysis on foreign currency fluctuation towards 3 categories of aggregated net income. Based on such analysis, we reached a conclusion that yen appreciation by ¥1 against U.S.$1, Australian $1 and Brazilian 1 Real would result in a net effect of reducing income by approximately ¥1.1 billion, ¥1.8 billion and ¥0.9 billion, respectively. b) Impact between U.S. dollar denominated contract amounts and revenues denominated in Australian dollar, Brazilian Real The sum of net income from those companies using Australian dollar and Brazilian Real as functional currency is becoming significant, reflecting increasing income in mineral resources and energy producing operations. Net income of those mineral resources and energy producing companies are 77 Table of Contents impacted by the currency fluctuation between the U.S. dollar as a contractual currency of sales contracts and the two currencies as functional currency, affecting their Australian dollar or Brazilian real denominated revenues. Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Revenues In accordance with U.S. GAAP, revenues are reported based on the gross amount billed to a customer or on the net amount retained (that is, the amount billed to a customer less the amount paid to a supplier) in the following manner. • Revenues are reported based on gross amounts for transactions where we have the related risks and rewards of ownership such as transactions mainly where we are the primary obligor in the arrangement and/or assume general inventory risk without any significant mitigation of our risk level. • Revenues are reported based on net amounts where we assume a low degree of related risks and rewards, effectively acting as an agent for the applicable products or services. A typical example of reporting revenues based on net amounts is a transaction where we receive a commission or fee at a fixed rate based on transaction volume or amount. We classified our revenues into sales of products, sales of services and other sales with the corresponding costs of revenues. The table below provides these three categories of revenues by products in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” in Note 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION.”(*) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2008 2007 Change Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Iron and Steel ¥ 730.4 ¥ 70.6 ¥ 0.3 ¥ 801.3 ¥ 495.2 ¥ 71.5 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 566.9 ¥ 235.2 ¥ (0.9 ) ¥ 0.1 ¥ 234.4 Non-Ferrous Metals 56.8 9.3 13.6 79.7 71.2 9.0 19.7 99.9 (14.4 ) 0.3 (6.1 ) (20.2 ) Machinery 276.0 123.6 78.6 478.2 253.1 106.0 69.5 428.6 22.9 17.6 9.1 49.6 Electronics & Information 77.4 100.8 4.1 182.3 74.4 104.4 0.0 178.8 3.0 (3.6 ) 4.1 3.5 Chemicals 1,207.5 104.2 6.9 1,318.6 1,038.9 98.4 9.3 1,146.6 168.6 5.8 (2.4 ) 172.0 Energy 1,992.1 6.9 18.7 2,017.7 1,617.7 7.1 8.5 1,633.3 374.4 (0.2 ) 10.2 384.4 Foods 533.2 38.3 1.1 572.6 417.2 49.3 0.5 467.0 116.0 (11.0 ) 0.6 105.6 Textiles 14.7 19.5 4.0 38.2 17.1 21.2 1.5 39.8 (2.4 ) (1.7 ) 2.5 (1.6 ) General Merchandise 33.8 6.7 0.0 40.5 42.3 8.0 0.0 50.3 (8.5 ) (1.3 ) 0.0 (9.8 ) Property and Service Business 87.9 73.8 48.1 209.8 63.3 81.1 38.0 182.4 24.6 (7.3 ) 10.1 27.4 Consolidated Total ¥ 5,009.8 ¥ 553.7 ¥ 175.4 ¥ 5,738.9 ¥ 4,090.4 ¥ 556.0 ¥ 147.2 ¥ 4,793.6 ¥ 919.4 ¥ (2.3 ) ¥ 28.2 ¥ 945.3 (*) Revenues reported in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” are classified by similarity of products as required by U.S. GAAP, and are not intended to represent classification by operating segment. As an example, revenues of “Chemicals” in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” include not only those reported in the Chemical Segment but also Chemical revenues reported in other operating segments such as the Americas Segment. To differentiate between classification by product and classification by operating segment, classification by product is italicized in this “Revenues” section and “Gross profit classified by category of revenues” in the next “Gross Profit” section. 78 Table of Contents Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2007 2006 Change Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Iron and Steel ¥ 495.2 ¥ 71.5 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 566.9 ¥ 412.1 ¥ 68.8 ¥ 0.3 ¥ 481.2 ¥ 83.1 ¥ 2.7 ¥ (0.1 ) ¥ 85.7 Non-Ferrous Metals 71.2 9.0 19.7 99.9 77.7 9.2 15.3 102.2 (6.5 ) (0.2 ) 4.4 (2.3 ) Machinery 253.1 106.0 69.5 428.6 206.3 97.6 46.8 350.7 46.8 8.4 22.7 77.9 Electronics & Information 74.4 104.4 0.0 178.8 73.8 86.9 0.1 160.8 0.6 17.5 (0.1 ) 18.0 Chemicals 1,038.9 98.4 9.3 1,146.6 785.9 93.3 7.5 886.7 253.0 5.1 1.8 259.9 Energy 1,617.7 7.1 8.5 1,633.3 1,331.8 7.7 21.0 1,360.5 285.9 (0.6 ) (12.5 ) 272.8 Foods 417.2 49.3 0.5 467.0 377.8 47.2 (0.4 ) 424.6 39.4 2.1 0.9 42.4 Textiles 17.1 21.2 1.5 39.8 18.5 16.8 1.1 36.4 (1.4 ) 4.4 0.4 3.4 General Merchandise 42.3 8.0 0.0 50.3 52.6 9.0 0.0 61.6 (10.3 ) (1.0 ) 0.0 (11.3 ) Property and Service Business 63.3 81.1 38.0 182.4 61.1 74.4 27.3 162.8 2.2 6.7 10.7 19.6 Consolidated Total ¥ 4,090.4 ¥ 556.0 ¥ 147.2 ¥ 4,793.6 ¥ 3,397.6 ¥ 510.9 ¥ 119.0 ¥ 4,027.5 ¥ 692.8 ¥ 45.1 ¥ 28.2 ¥ 766.1 Sales of Products Sales of products include the following four types of transactions: • the sale of products as a principal in the transactions, such as crude oil and petroleum products, petrochemical products and steel products; • the sale of manufactured products at our manufacturing subsidiaries such as feed additives by Novus International, Inc. (United States) and tea leaves by Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan); • the sale of natural resources from iron ore and coal mining activities and oil and gas producing activities; and • the development and sale of real estate. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, revenues from the sales of products were ¥5,009.8 billion, an increase of ¥919.4 billion, or 22.5%, from ¥4,090.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major factors by product were as follows: • Revenues from Energy were ¥1,992.1 billion, an increase of ¥374.4 billion from ¥1,617.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Crude oil and petroleum products sales in international markets and domestic petroleum products and liquefied petroleum gas sales comprised the major part of the revenues from Energy. Revenues from sales of petroleum products increased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) by ¥187.7 billion. There was a new contribution of ¥79.3 billion from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan)(*) which was newly consolidated as a subsidiary during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. Regarding price trends of oil and gas for the year ended March 31, 2008, refer to the discussion under “Energy Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” • Revenues from Iron and Steel were ¥730.4 billion, an increase of ¥235.2 billion from ¥495.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase was attributable to rising prices in iron ore and steel scrap as well as robust steel products sales, particularly in Asia. Also there was a new contribution from Steel Technologies, Inc. (United States) of ¥119.9 billion following our acquisition in June 2007. Regarding price trends of iron ore for the year ended March 31, 2008, please refer to the discussion under “Mineral & Metal resources Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” (*) In March 2007, Mitsui acquired a 3% stake in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., formerly an associated company, increasing its voting interest in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. to 50.3% and re-classifying Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. as a subsidiary of Mitsui. 79 Table of Contents • Revenues from Chemicals were ¥1,207.5 billion, an increase of ¥168.6 billion from ¥1,038.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, primarily due to increased sales of basic petrochemicals and petrochemical intermediates of ¥118.3 billion at Mitsui, reflecting higher prices of those products as a result of rising crude oil prices. • Revenues from Foods were ¥533.2 billion, an increase of ¥116.0 billion from ¥417.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, mainly due to increases of ¥74.1 billion in Mitsui’s sales of grain and feedstuff, reflecting increased corn and soybean prices and active commodity markets. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, revenues from the sales of products were ¥4,090.4 billion, an increase of ¥692.8 billion, or 20.4%, from ¥3,397.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors by product were as follows: • Revenues from Energy were ¥1,617.7 billion, an increase of ¥285.9 billion from ¥1,331.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Crude oil and petroleum products sales increased by ¥98.6 billion and ¥53.7 billion at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong. Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) and Westport Petroleum, Inc., respectively. Domestic petroleum products and liquefied petroleum gas sales also increased by a combined sum of ¥109.4 billion at Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan). • Revenues from Chemicals were ¥1,038.9 billion, an increase of ¥253.0 billion from ¥785.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, primarily reflecting increases in Mitsui’s sales of basic petrochemicals and synthetic fiber intermediates due to higher prices for these petrochemical products reflecting higher crude oil prices. • Revenues from Iron and Steel were ¥495.2 billion, an increase of ¥83.1 billion from ¥412.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Revenues increased at Mitsui and Mitsui Steel Holdings Inc. (United States) reflecting favorable markets in steel products. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded higher revenues reflecting the rise in iron ore prices. Sales of Services Sales of services include the revenues from trading margins (for our intermediary service) and commissions. For example: • As the most typical case of our services, for back-to-back sales and purchase transactions of products, we record the net amount of sale and purchase prices (namely, margin for our intermediary service) as revenues. • We provide various services such as logistics and warehouse services, information and communication services and technical support. We also facilitate arrangement of the contracts between manufacturers and customers and deliveries of the products between suppliers and customers. In these cases, the billed amounts for these services are recognized as revenues. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, revenues from the sales of services were ¥553.7 billion, a decrease of ¥2.3 billion from ¥556.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. While Machinery increased by ¥17.6 to ¥123.6 billion from ¥106.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, Foods decreased by ¥11.0 billion to ¥38.3 billion from ¥49.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 and Property and Service Business decreased by ¥7.3 billion to ¥73.8 billion from ¥81.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, revenues from the sales of services were ¥556.0 billion, an increase of ¥45.1 billion from ¥510.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Electronics & Information increased by ¥17.5 billion to ¥104.4 billion from ¥86.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Machinery increased by ¥8.4 billion to ¥106.0 billion from ¥97.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. 80 Table of Contents Other Sales Other sales principally include the revenues from: • derivative commodity instruments and derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes (by product category mainly in Energy and Non Ferrous Metals); • the revenues from leasing activities of real estate, rolling stock, ocean transport vessels, aircraft and machinery equipment (by product category mainly in Property and Service Business and Machinery); and • the revenues from external consumer financing (by product category mainly in Machinery). Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, revenues from other sales were ¥175.4 billion, an increase of ¥28.2 billion from ¥147.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, which was primarily attributable to the following factors: • Derivative trading revenues were ¥36.7 billion, an increase of ¥3.6 billion from the ¥33.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase was mainly attributable to a reversal effect from naphtha trading loss for the year ended March 31, 2007 at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore), however, the improvement was partly offset by a decrease in commodity derivatives trading revenues for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Leasing revenues were ¥90.3 billion, an increase of ¥7.5 billion from the ¥82.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 due to a full-year contribution from a rolling stock leasing subsidiary MRCE Dispolok Gmbh (Germany) which was acquired in October 2006. • P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) increased its revenue by ¥4.9 billion reflecting strong business performance in the motorcycle retail finance industry in Indonesia. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, revenues from other sales were ¥147.2 billion, an increase of ¥28.2 billion from ¥119.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, which was primarily attributable to the following factors: • Leasing revenues were ¥82.8 billion, an increase of ¥22.0 billion from ¥60.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, which was attributable to the expanded rolling stock leasing businesses at Mitsui Rail Capital Participacoes Ltda. (Brazil) and Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. (United States) as well as the acquisition of MRCE Dispolok GmbH and increases in the real estate leasing businesses in Japan and abroad. • Derivative trading revenues were ¥33.1 billion, a decrease of ¥6.6 billion from ¥39.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The principal reason for this decrease was naphtha trading losses at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2007. • P.T. Bussan Auto Finance increased its revenue from other sales by ¥8.3 billion over the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting expansion of motorcycle retail finance in Indonesia. Gross Profit Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change between2008 and 2007 Change between2007 and 2006 2008 2007 2006 GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio Gross Profit from Sales of Products ¥ 497.3 9.9 % ¥ 393.6 9.6 % ¥ 337.9 9.9 % ¥ 103.7 0.3 % ¥ 55.7 (0.3 )% Gross Profit from Sales of Services 397.6 71.8 % 397.5 71.5 380.6 74.5 % 0.1 0.3 % 16.9 (3.0 )% Gross Profit from Other Sales 93.2 53.1 % 75.2 51.1 66.1 55.5 % 18.0 2.0 % 9.1 (4.4 )% Total ¥ 988.1 17.2 % ¥ 866.3 18.1 % ¥ 784.6 19.5 % ¥ 121.8 (0.9 )% ¥ 81.7 (1.4 )% 81 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit was ¥988.1 billion, an increase of ¥121.8 billion, or 14.1%, from ¥866.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The Gross Profit ratio (“GP ratio”), or ratio of gross profit divided by revenues, for the year ended March 31, 2008 was 17.2%, a decrease of 0.9 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit from sales of products was ¥497.3 billion, an increase of ¥103.7 billion from ¥393.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Gross profit from Energy was ¥218.7 billion, a significant increase of ¥91.1 billion from ¥127.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, due to full year contributions of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. by ¥58.7 billion which was newly consolidated as a subsidiary during the 4th quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, and Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited which commenced a commercial production of the Enfield oil field by ¥26.4 billion. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded increases reflecting higher oil prices. On the other hand, Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) recorded a ¥12.4 billion decrease from sales of petroleum products. The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2008 was 9.9%, an improvement of 0.3 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. This 0.3 percentage point improvement was attributable to the higher growth in gross profit (26.3% increase) than growth in revenues (22.5% increase), particularly in oil and gas producing activities of Energy reflecting the rising sales prices. For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit from sales of services was ¥397.6 billion, an increase of ¥0.1 billion from ¥397.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. As illustrated by the table in “three categories of revenues by products”—“Sales of Services”, increases in revenues from sales of services of Machinery were largely offset by decreases in those of Electronics & Information and Foods. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2008 was 71.8%, an increase of 0.3 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit from other sales was ¥93.2 billion, an increase of ¥18.0 billion from ¥75.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The major reasons were the same as described in “Revenues—Other Sales” above. While GP ratio in all the three categories of revenue increased, the overall GP ratio decreased by 0.9%. This is due to the change in the sales mix wherein the percentage of sales from services, which has considerably higher GP ratio as compared to products and others, has reduced from 45.8% in 2007 to 40.2% in 2008. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit was ¥866.3 billion, an increase of ¥81.7 billion, or 10.4%, from ¥784.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The GP ratio for the year ended March 31, 2007 was 18.1%, a decrease of 1.4 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit from sales of products was ¥393.6 billion, an increase of ¥55.7 billion from ¥337.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major factors in this category are as follows: • Gross profit from Energy was ¥127.6 billion, an increase of ¥40.8 billion from ¥86.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. As a result of consolidation of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. as a subsidiary in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, it newly reported a ¥15.0 billion gross profit and Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited also reported gross profit of ¥13.9 billion following the start up of commercial production at the Enfield oil project. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V., which is engaged in production of crude oil in Oman, recorded an increase reflecting higher oil prices. Westport Petroleum, Inc. recorded a ¥4.9 billion increase in gross profit from sales of petroleum products. 82 Table of Contents • Gross profit from Iron and Steel was ¥97.9 billion, an increase of ¥7.7 billion from ¥90.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded increases in gross profit by ¥13.6 billion and ¥3.6 billion, respectively, due to rising iron ore prices. The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2007 was 9.6%, a decline of 0.3 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting relatively lower growth of gross profit (16.5% increase) than that of revenues (20.4% increase). This is a typical trend seen in Energy and Chemicals where higher revenues do not necessarily result in increases in gross profit. For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit from sales of services was ¥397.5 billion, an increase of ¥16.9 billion from ¥380.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. A ¥6.7 billion increase was seen primarily in Chemicals. Increased revenues from sales of services of Electronics & Information were largely offset by increases in the related costs of those revenues, where the typical case was J-SCube INC (Japan) which provides services of design, operation and maintenance of information systems. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2007 was 71.5%, a decrease of 3.0 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2006. This decrease was mainly because operations such as logistics services and information system services, which reported the gross billed amounts as revenues, and whose GP ratios were therefore less than 100% (because of the accompanying cost of revenues), recorded relatively higher increases in revenues, compared to operations such as intermediary services where the net amount of sales and purchase prices in back-to-back transactions were reported as revenues with GP ratios of 100%. For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit from other sales was ¥75.2 billion, an increase of ¥9.1 billion from ¥66.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major reasons were the same as described in “Revenues—Other Sales” above. Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment For detailed discussion, see “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” A summary of the increase in gross profit classified by operating segment is provided below. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008 consolidated total gross profit was ¥988.1 billion, an increase of ¥121.8 billion, or 14.1%, from ¥866.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 as a result of the following: • The Energy Segment recorded an increase of ¥95.4 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, making up 78% of the consolidated total increase, mainly attributable to contributions from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. and the Enfield oil field. These contributions were partly offset by a decline in gross profit at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reflecting a lower coal price, the Australian dollar appreciation against the U.S. dollar and a cost increase related to various operational troubles at its mining expansion project. • The Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment recorded an increase of ¥26.1 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007, primarily reflecting solid performance at a motorcycle retail finance subsidiary, P.T.Bussan Auto Finance, and other automotive subsidiaries, ocean vessels and rolling stock leasing subsidiaries as well as contribution from a newly acquired machine tools sales subsidiary Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States). Similarly, the Chemical Segment and the Iron & Steel products Segment reported increases of ¥7.2 billion reflecting favorable methanol and ammonia market conditions and ¥3.6 billion reflecting firm results in steel tubular products for energy sector as well as construction material and tubular products to Asian market, respectively. 83 Table of Contents • The Mineral & Metal Resources Segment recorded a decrease of ¥15.2 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007, mainly due to divestiture of Sesa Goa Limited (India)(*). This negative impact was partly offset by an increase of gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. reflecting higher prices of iron ore. • The Consumer Service & IT Segment and the Americas Segment recorded decreases from the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease at the Consumer Service & IT Segment was attributable to business reorganization through withdrawals from or divestitures of mainly domestic businesses. In the Americas Segment for the year ended March 31, 2008, MBK Real Estate LLC. (United States), which engages in the development and sale of residential homes in the West Coast market, recorded a sharp fall in sales and a loss from write-downs on inventories reflecting deterioration in the residential market triggered by the subprime mortgage problems of the United States. Moreover, Westport Petroleum Inc. decreased its profit from oil products trading and so did steel products subsidiaries engaged in the steel products business mainly in oil tubular products reflecting lower margins. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, all the operating segments except for All Other recorded increases in gross profit. • The Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and Energy Segment recorded ¥22.5 billion and ¥16.9 billion increases, respectively. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. reported increases reflecting higher prices of iron ore. The Energy Segment’s increase was primarily attributable to the start-up of commercial production at the Enfield oil project and the consolidation of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. as a subsidiary, which was partly offset by a decline at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Reflecting a decline in coal prices. • The Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment recorded an increase, primarily reflecting expansion of operations of overseas automotive-related subsidiaries. Business transactions at the Iron & Steel Products Segment and the Chemical Segment continued to show good performance in general. • The Logistics & Financial Markets Segment and the Americas Segment recorded strong results in trading operations in various commodities such as petroleum products trading at Westport Petroleum, Inc.. 84 (*) As a result of Mitsui’s divestiture of Sesa Goa, the operating results of Sesa Goa for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 are presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect in our statements of consolidated income). However, in this “Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment”, operating results of the company are presented and discussed according to line items of the consolidated statements of income. Table of Contents • In the Foods & Retail Segment and the Consumer Service & IT Segment, performance varied by products and services. Domestic apparel businesses and Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. showed disappointing performance, while real estate businesses performed well, especially overseas. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Classified by Category of Expenses Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥605.2 billion, an increase of ¥33.6 billion or 5.9% from ¥571.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The table below provides a breakdown of selling, general and administrative expenses used for our internal review for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Personnel ¥ 294.5 ¥ 283.3 ¥ 271.3 ¥ 11.2 ¥ 12.0 Welfare 12.2 10.3 9.4 1.9 0.9 Travel 35.1 32.0 28.5 3.1 3.5 Entertainment 10.8 10.5 9.8 0.3 0.7 Communication 48.5 43.9 41.7 4.6 2.2 Others 204.1 191.6 177.9 12.5 13.7 Total ¥ 605.2 ¥ 571.6 ¥ 538.6 ¥ 33.6 ¥ 33.0 • Personnel expenses were ¥294.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, an increase of ¥11.2 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007. This was mainly attributable to acquisitions of subsidiaries such as Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States) in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. in the Energy Segment and Steel Technologies, Inc. in the Americas segment. • Other remaining items in selling, general and administrative expenses increased showing similar patterns as personnel expenses. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2007 were ¥571.6 billion, an increase of ¥33.0 billion, or 6.1%, from ¥538.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. • Personnel expenses were ¥283.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, an increase of ¥12.0 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, primarily reflecting expanded operations of subsidiaries. Those operations include the automotive related businesses such as P.T. Bussan Auto Finance and construction machinery related businesses such as Road Machinery, LLC (United States) in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, and the domestic information and telecommunication businesses such as J-SCube INC (Japan) and Telepark Corp. (Japan) in the Consumer Service & IT Segment. Also, performance linked bonuses to traders increased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. • Other remaining items in selling, general and administrative expenses increased showing similar patterns as personnel expenses. 85 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Classified by Operating Segment The table below provides selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 by operating segment. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 35.7 ¥ 33.1 ¥ 30.4 ¥ 2.6 ¥ 2.7 Mineral & Metal Resources 16.6 19.8 21.3 (3.2 ) (1.5 ) Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 94.8 79.9 66.9 14.9 13.0 Chemical 64.6 65.3 64.8 (0.7 ) 0.5 Energy 46.2 38.3 38.0 7.9 0.3 Foods & Retail 65.1 69.6 70.1 (4.5 ) (0.5 ) Consumer Service & IT 98.4 109.4 102.7 (11.0 ) 6.7 Logistics & Financial Markets 32.9 35.9 33.3 (3.0 ) 2.6 Americas 51.3 43.2 40.6 8.1 2.6 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 24.9 22.4 19.5 2.5 2.9 Asia Pacific 25.3 21.2 17.8 4.1 3.4 Total 555.8 538.1 505.4 17.7 32.7 All Other 7.2 8.5 11.0 (1.3 ) (2.5 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 42.2 25.0 22.2 17.2 2.8 Consolidated Total ¥ 605.2 ¥ 571.6 ¥ 538.6 ¥ 33.6 ¥ 33.0 Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 As illustrated by the above table, selling, general and administrative expenses increased mainly at segments such as the Machinery & Infrastructure, the Americas and the Energy by ¥14.9 billion, ¥8.1 billion and ¥7.9 billion, respectively. This was mainly attributable to acquisitions of subsidiaries such as Ellison Technologies Inc. in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. in the Energy Segment and Steel Technologies, Inc. in the Americas segment. On the other hand, expenses at the Consumer Service & IT Segment and the Foods & Retail Segment decreased as a result of business reorganizations including exit and disposal of domestic businesses. With regard to the Energy Segment and the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, they have relatively small numbers of employees and little correlation between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses compared to other operating segments such as the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and the Consumer Service & IT Segment. See “Item 6.D. Employees” for further details of numbers of employees. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2007 increased in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and the Consumer Service & IT Segment by ¥13.0 billion and ¥6.7 billion, respectively. On the other hand, the Energy Segment and the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, which reported major increases in gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded a ¥0.3 billion increase and a ¥1.5 billion decrease, respectively. As discussed in “Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007” above, there is little correlation between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses in the Energy Segment and the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. 86 Table of Contents Provision for Doubtful Receivables Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥8.1 billion, a decrease of ¥3.8 billion, or 31.9%, from ¥11.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Provisions for the year ended March 31, 2008 consisted of a number of individually small receivables. For the year ended March 31, 2007, major factors were a new provision for an overseas oil exploration company, an increase in the provision for motorcycle retail finance at P.T. Bussan Auto Finance reflecting its expanding operations and an increase in the provision at Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio (Brazil). Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥11.9 billion, a ¥13.7 billion increase in expense from ¥1.8 billion income for the year ended March 31, 2006. The ¥1.8 billion income for the year ended March 31, 2006 was attributable to the collection of debts which had been written off as uncollectible in the past. Interest Income and Interest Expense Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥57.3 billion, an increase of ¥7.5 billion, or 15.1%, from ¥49.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Interest expense was ¥106.2 billion, an increase of ¥13.7 billion, or 14.8%, from ¥92.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income, was ¥48.9 billion, an increase of ¥6.2 billion, or 14.5%, from ¥42.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. A breakdown of the principal changes for the year ended March 31, 2008 is as follows: • Interest expense for the Sakhalin II project declined by ¥7.2 billion as a result of the transfer of our 50% stake in the project and subsequent decrease in related interest bearing debt. • Mitsui recorded a ¥5.5 billion increase reflecting higher Japanese yen interest rates. • Reflecting increased interest bearing debt used to fund various investments, interest expense at overseas subsidiaries increased by ¥6.6 billion, out of which a ¥5.6 billion increase was attributable to the Americas Segment. In general, interest income tends to show similar patterns of fluctuations as interest expense. We provide loans and deferred payment facility, which generate interest income, by funding our borrowings from financial institutions. Usually, both interest expense and interest income have the same interest rate type, floating or fixed. Accordingly, most fluctuations in interest income are offset by corresponding fluctuations in interest expense. With respect to interest rate swaps employed to manage interest rate risk exposure, see “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Sources.” Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2008 regarding the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, in which we have borrowings, were as follows: • The Bank of Japan raised the policy interest rate in February 2007 but kept policy interest rates on hold thereafter. Reflecting steady growth of the Japanese economy in the first half of the year market interest rate ( the average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)) for the year ended March 31, 2008 rose to 0.87% from 0.45% for the year ended March 31, 2007. On the other hand, the average yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.59% for the year ended March 31, 2008, down from 1.75% during the year ended March 31, 2007. • The FRB raised the Federal Funds target rate to 5.25% in June 2006 and kept the rate level thereafter. However, it gradually lowered the rate from September 2007 in response to a concern about economic 87 Table of Contents slowdown triggered by the sub-prime mortgage crisis, to 2.25% in March 2008, showing its attitude to provide an actual money rate of zero. The FRB then lowered the rate to 2.0% in April 2008. The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2008 was 4.66%, down from the average of 5.35% during the year ended March 31, 2007. For information regarding development of our investment plans and financial policies, refer to “B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥49.8 billion, an increase of ¥12.2 billion, or 32.4%, from ¥37.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Interest expense was ¥92.5 billion, an increase of ¥33.7 billion, or 57.3%, from ¥58.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income, was ¥42.7 billion, an increase of ¥21.5 billion, or 101.4%, from ¥21.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. A breakdown of the principal changes for the year ended March 31, 2007 is as follows: • Interest expense incurred for the Sakhalin II project increased by ¥9.0 billion due to increased interest bearing debt to fund the investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. and higher U.S. dollar interest rates. • Other than the Sakhalin II project related interest expense, Mitsui recorded an increase of ¥3.5 billion in interest expense, reflecting increases in interest bearing debt associated with various investments. • Reflecting higher U.S. dollar interest rates, interest expense at overseas subsidiaries increased by ¥8.3 billion. In particular, the Americas Segment recorded a ¥4.8 billion increase, which was mainly attributable to Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and Westport Petroleum, Inc. Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2007 regarding the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, the major currencies in which we have borrowings, were as follows: • The Bank of Japan decided to terminate its zero interest rate policy in July 2006, and raised the policy interest rate in February 2007. Reflecting this policy change, the average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month LIBOR for the year ended March 31, 2007 rose to 0.45% from 0.07% for the year ended March 31, 2006. The average yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.75% for the year ended March 31, 2007, up from 1.44% during the year ended March 31, 2006. • The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2007 was 5.35%, up from the average of 4.12% during the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting the FRB’s policy of raising the Federal Funds target rate from 4.75% as of March 2006 to 5.25% as of June 2006 and keeping the rate level thereafter. Dividend Income Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥50.1 billion, an increase of ¥0.9 billion, or 1.8%, from ¥49.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman amounted to ¥23.4 billion, a decrease of ¥3.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2007, which was offset by increased dividends from other investees including INPEX Holdings Inc. held by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥49.2 billion, an increase of ¥19.0 billion, or 62.9%, from ¥30.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Dividends from LNG projects in the Middle East, namely Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman, totaled ¥26.6 billion, a significant increase of ¥13.2 billion, from ¥13.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The rest of the increase in dividend income was mostly comprised of increases in dividends from domestic listed companies. 88 Table of Contents Gains on Sales of Securities—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥92.3 billion, a substantial increase of ¥33.5 billion, or 57.0%, from ¥58.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Since the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui continuously conducted scrutiny on whole investments held by operating segments to optimize the business portfolio. Consequently it recorded gains on the sales of shares mainly in listed companies. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the largest part of the gains came from the sale of a part of Mitsui’s stake in the Sakhalin II project; sales of its entire holding in Empreendimentos Brasileiros de Mineração S.A. (“EBM”) in Brazil; and sale of additional shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan) following the sale of the previous year. In addition, the Consumer Service & IT Segment recorded gains in exchange of shares in Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) and on sales of shares in telecommunication companies including two cable television providers and Jupiter Telecommunications Co., Ltd in Japan. Other operating segments also recorded gains on sales of shares of listed companies such as Quintiles Transnational Corp. in the United States and BALtrans Holdings Limited in Hong Kong, China in the Logistics & Financial Market Segment. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui enhanced scrutiny on the assets held by operating segments to optimize its business portfolio, and consequently we recorded gains on the sales of shares in listed companies including a ¥15.6 billion gain from Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. shares. Mitsui also record a ¥4.5 billion gain on the sale of shares in Telepark Corp. (Japan), a subsidiary engaged in sales of mobile devices and telecommunication lines. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The net realized gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥58.8 billion, an increase of ¥21.0 billion, or 55.6% from ¥37.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The breakdown of major transactions related to net gains on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2007 is discussed above. For the year ended March 31, 2006, the Consumer Service & IT Segment recorded gains on sales of shares in telecommunication related companies, namely, a ¥5.5 billion gain (jointly with the Americas Segment) on the sales of shares in Metro PCS in the United States, a ¥3.3 billion gain from the exchange of shares in POWEREDCOM, Inc. for KDDI CORPORATION in Japan and a ¥2.0 billion gain on the sales of shares in P.T. Excelcomindo Pratama, Tbk. in Indonesia. The Foods & Retail Segment recorded a ¥4.2 billion gain from the exchange of shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd, one of Japan’s leading diversified retailers. Loss on Write-Down of Securities Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Loss on write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥36.7 billion, a large increase of ¥25.0 billion, or 213.7%, from ¥11.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2007 the Nikkei Stock Average hit a low of ¥14,218.60 in June 2006, reflecting appreciation of the Japanese yen and correction of global stock markets. However, such pessimistic sentiment faded and the Nikkei Stock Average recovered to ¥17, 287.65 as of March 31, 2007. During the year ended March 31, 2008, the Nikkei Stock Average recorded a high of ¥18,261.98 due to the rise of expectations for expanding Japanese corporate earnings, but retreated from highs reflecting declines in global stock prices and Japanese yen appreciation, triggered by the sub-prime mortgage crisis, and recorded ¥12,525.54 as of March 31, 2008. • The losses for the year ended March 31, 2008 included write-downs on listed shares for ¥28.0 billion, including ¥4.5 billion for Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. in the Foods & Retail Segment and ¥4.5 billion for Central Finance Co., Ltd. in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. Furthermore, reflecting overall 89 Table of Contents decline in domestic stock markets, we recorded write-down losses in the Machinery & Infrastructure Segment in ¥8.6 billion for Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd shares and in the Chemical Segment in ¥2.8 billion for Kaneka Corporation shares(*). • Losses for the year ended March 31, 2007 consisted of miscellaneous small losses, including those on listed shares, amounting to ¥3.1 billion. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The loss on write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥11.7 billion, an increase of ¥1.1 billion, or 10.4%, from ¥10.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2006, the Japanese stock markets saw an upturn following the recovery of the Japanese economy and expanding corporate earnings with the Nikkei Stock Average at ¥17,059.66 as of March 31, 2006, compared to ¥11,668.95 as of March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2007 the Nikkei Stock Average recorded ¥17, 287.65 as of March 31, 2007, as discussed above. Reflecting these developments in the stock market, the write-down of marketable securities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.1 billion, a slight increase over ¥1.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. With respect to non-marketable securities, individual write-down losses were insignificant for the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006. Gain on Disposal or Sales of Property and Equipment—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net for the year ended March 31, 2008 was a loss of ¥0.2 billion, a decrease of ¥5.5 billion, or 103.8%, from a ¥5.3 billion gain for the year ended March 31, 2007. Loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 consisted of miscellaneous small items. For the year ended March 31, 2007, major gains resulted from disposal of warehouses and land at Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States) and NST, Inc. (United States). Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥5.3 billion, a decrease of ¥2.2 billion, or 29.3%, from a ¥7.5 billion gain for the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2006, major factors included a ¥5.6 billion gain on the sale of Mitsui’s company-owned welfare facilities and a ¥1.3 billion gain on the sale of its corporate residences and dormitories. Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Impairment loss of long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥24.4 billion, an increase of ¥5.0 billion, or 25.8%, from ¥19.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. (*) Mitsui’s Management principally believes that “a 50% or more decline” in fair value of a listed security leads to the conclusion that the security has an other-than-temporary impairment. In addition, management recognizes that “decline by 30% or more” also leads to the same conclusion, considering the materiality of declined value. 90 Table of Contents • For the year ended March 31, 2008, we recorded a ¥13.9 billion loss on real estate which we possess in Saito International Culture Park (“SICP”), located in the north area of Osaka Prefecture(*). Other major losses were those related to impairment on power producing equipment at GTF Green Power Co., Ltd. (Japan), a domestic power producing operation, and on Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, the subsidiaries in the Foods & Retail Segment recorded major impairment losses, namely, a ¥12.1 billion loss on intangible assets at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) due to deterioration of the operating environment and a ¥2.2 billion loss at MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) on real estate and facilities which were idle as a result of the reorganization of distribution bases. For more information on impairment losses on long-lived assets, see Note 10, “IMPAIRMENT LOSS OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS,” and on our reevaluation and restructuring of subsidiaries, see Note 24, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” As of March 31, 2008, we did not identify any material assets analyzed for impairment for which an impairment charge has not yet been recorded. Also see the relevant discussion as described later on the impairment loss at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. in “Operating Results by Operating Segment— Foods & Retail Segment” in this item. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The impairment loss on long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥19.4 billion, an increase of ¥3.6 billion or 22.8%, from ¥15.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2007 are discussed above and those for the year ended March 31, 2006 were as follows: • MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. recorded a total of ¥6.0 billion impairment loss on land and facilities as a result of reorganization of the distribution bases. • Mitsui and domestic subsidiaries recorded a total of ¥2.8 billion in impairment losses on land for development and land for lease. • NST, Inc. (United States) reported a ¥1.6 billion impairment loss on plant facilities. Impairment Loss of Goodwill Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Impairment loss of Goodwill for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥2.0 billion, a decrease of ¥14.5 billion, or 87.9%, from ¥16.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Details of impairment losses are as below: • Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) and NextCom K.K. (Japan), both of which were subsidiaries and listed on the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, were merged in April, 2007. At the merger, a ¥2.5 billion gain from the exchange of shares was recognized. For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported a ¥2.0 billion impairment loss on its goodwill, reflecting a decline in its share price. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. reported a ¥16.5 billion impairment loss on all of its goodwill, using a discounted future cash flow method based on its internal operating budget for evaluation of fair value of its goodwill. After reporting this significant impairment loss, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded net income of ¥0.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, a marginal income which the management had expected considering continuously strict business conditions. (*) In March 2008, Urban Renaissance Agency (“URA”), an implementing body of land readjustment of SICP, announced that it would be difficult for URA to execute the project as the implementing body considering a conclusion on the project provided by the special appraisal and monitoring committee, and suggested that the project plan should be fundamentally revised. As a result of the URA’s announcement, uncertainty about the progress and profitability of the land readjustment project in SICP has increased and Mitsui recognized a ¥13.9 billion impairment loss on land, by re-examining future value based on the current prices in the nearby block. 91 Table of Contents The carrying amounts of goodwill as of Mar 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were ¥52.5 billion, ¥37.2 billion and ¥30.6 billion, respectively. Since the majority of the increase during the period belongs to the Americas Segment, especially subsidiaries in the United States. See Note 12, “GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS.” As of the date of this annual report, management pays closer attention to the operating results and business of the subsidiaries in the United States in monitoring the possibility of occurrence of goodwill impairment of our overall subsidiaries, considering the deterioration in the United States economy triggered by the subprime mortgage issue. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Impairment loss of goodwill for the year ended March 31, 2007 was mentioned as above and there were no impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2006. Compensation and Other Charges Related to DPF Incident In November 2004, Mitsui discovered that false data for diesel particulate filters (“DPF”s) manufactured by Mitsui’s subsidiary, PUREarth Incorporated (Japan), and sold by Mitsui had been produced and submitted to authorities. These filters were subsidized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and seven other prefectural and municipal governments, as well as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of the Environment, and related industry associations. Mitsui had sold approximately 21,500 units of the product. Mitsui carried out a three-part user response plan involving: (1) the free replacement of DPFs, (2) the reimbursement of the amount paid for purchasing Mitsui’s DPFs in exchange for their redemption and (3) a support program for the purchase of alternative vehicles, as well as redemption of DPFs. For the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui recorded ¥36.0 billion as compensation and other charges related to DPF incident, consisting of a user response charge of approximately ¥28.0 billion and subsidy compensation of approximately ¥8.0 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui recorded an additional user response charge of ¥9.0 billion, re-estimating expected costs in each user response plan reflecting changes in the requirement of each respective user. Mitsui completed the redemption of DPFs for the year ended March 31, 2007, and consequently Mitsui recorded a credit to income of ¥3.9 billion as a result of the reversal of the accrued cost for compensation and other charges. For more information, see Note 21, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” Other Expense—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Other expense—net for the year ended March 31, 2008 was a ¥3.0 billion expense, an increase of ¥2.5 billion, or 500.0%, from a loss of ¥0.5 billion in expenses for the year ended March 31, 2007. A major component of other expenses—net for the year ended March 31, 2008 was exploration expenses, mainly at Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia). For the year ended March 31, 2007, restructuring-related charges were reported mainly by MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) and Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan). For more information on other expense—net, see Note 19, “OTHER EXPENSE (INCOME)—NET,” and on our restructuring activities, see Note 24, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, Other expense—net was a ¥0.5 billion expense, a ¥2.5 billion deterioration from ¥2.0 billion in income for the year ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Other expenses—net consisted of individually small items. 92 Table of Contents Income Taxes Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, income taxes were ¥171.2 billion, an increase of ¥25.9 billion, or 17.8%, from ¥145.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The effective tax rate was 42.6%, a decrease of 4.4 percentage points from 47.0% for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease was seen in the effect of taxation on dividends, application of lower income tax rates to certain taxable income at overseas subsidiaries and changes in valuation allowance, which was partly offset by a higher income tax rate on certain natural resources extracting activities including those in Australia, Thailand and Oman. For further information, see Note 20, “INCOME TAXES.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, income taxes were ¥145.3 billion, an increase of ¥11.2 billion, or 8.4%, from ¥134.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The effective tax rate was 47.0%, a decrease of 2.9 percentage points from 49.9% for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decline was primarily attributable to the effect of taxation on dividends to 4.0 percentage points for the year ended March 31, 2007 from 10.8 percentage points for the year ended March 31, 2006, which was partly offset by an increase in valuation allowances for the year ended March 31, 2007, particularly the allowance established at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Transfer price taxation issue with North West Shelf LNG Project Mitsui was audited by the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau with regard to transfer pricing on the LNG Project in Western Australia for the six fiscal years from the year ended March 31, 2000 to the year ended March 31, 2005. At the end of 2007 and 2006, Mitsui received notices of tax assessment from the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau for the years ended March 31, 2001 and 2000. Based on the notices of assessment, the taxable incomes were corrected by ¥8.2 billion and ¥4.9 billion, and the additional tax liabilities for income taxes were ¥3.7 billion and ¥2.4 billion, respectively. Mitsui has paid the additional taxes, but, it disagrees with the assessment and registered its protest in August 2006. In addition, it lodged an application in November 2006 for the mutual agreement procedure pursuant to a provision in the tax treaty between Japan and Australia in order to settle the double taxation. Mitsui believes that the amount of the correction for the years ended March 31, 2001 and 2000 and the tax liabilities for the years ended March 31, 2002 or later, arising from the final correction, if any, will be affected by the result of the mutual agreement procedure, which is still pending. The effect of this matter was recorded in accordance with FIN No.48 in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2008. 93 Table of Contents It is reasonably possible that the situation of the mutual agreement procedure may change within the next 12 months, and the change could decrease the unrecognized tax benefits in an amount ranging from ¥0 million to ¥5.6 billion based on current estimates. As of March 31, 2008, the earliest tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions in which the companies operate are the year ended March 31, 2000 for Japan; the year ended March 31, 2003 for the United States; and the year ended March 31, 2000 for Australia. Minority Interests in Earnings of Subsidiaries Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥46.0 billion, a large increase of ¥28.1 billion, or 157.0%, from ¥17.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries increased due to the following factors: • The Energy Segment recorded minority interests in earnings of ¥20.6 billion and 1.7 billion for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, most of which related to Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) (with a minority interest of 48.5%), which became a subsidiary as a result of the acquisition of additional voting shares in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. • In the Foods & Retail Segment, for the year ended March 31, 2007 Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) (with a minority interest of 48.1%) recorded a loss from continuing operations before minority interests and equity in earnings, reflecting significant impairment losses on long-lived assets and goodwill, contributing ¥8.3 billion in minority interests in income for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, its operating results recovered to a marginally positive amount of income and zero minority interest is recorded. • The Mineral & Metal Resources Segment recorded minority interests in earnings of ¥7.2 billion and ¥7.3 billion for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, in Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) (with a minority interest of 38.1%), which owns an interest in a copper mine joint venture, Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile). Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries were ¥17.9 billion, an increase of ¥4.2 billion, or 30.7%, from ¥13.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors are provided below. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment recorded ¥7.3 billion in minority interests in earnings, up from ¥1.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) (with a minority interest of 38.1%), which owns an interest in a copper mine joint venture, Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile), recorded increases in minority interests in earnings, reflecting higher copper prices. • The Energy Segment and the Chemical Segment also reported increases in minority interests in earnings, mainly attributable to Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., which was newly consolidated as a subsidiary in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, and Japan-Arabia Methanol Co., Ltd., which recorded an increase in earnings supported by a favorable market environment. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, in the Foods & Retail Segment, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (with a minority interest of 48.1%) recorded ¥8.3 billion in minority interest in income for the year ended March 31, 2007 compared to a ¥0.2 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2006. 94 Table of Contents Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥154.3 billion, a slight increase of ¥1.2 billion, or 0.8%, from ¥153.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major factors for improved earnings are as follows. (See “Operating Results by Operating Segment” for detailed discussion.): • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment reported ¥71.2 billion equity in earnings, an increase of ¥10.9 billion, from ¥60.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Earnings increased at Valepar S.A. (Brazil)(*1) due to strong operating results of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce in Brazil (“Vale”) reflecting higher iron prices and contributions from Inco Limited (currently Vale Inco Limited) following the acquisition by Vale during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the Energy Segment reported ¥36.8 billion equity in earnings, a decrease of ¥7.6 billion, from ¥44.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating results of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. were reported as earnings of an associated company up to the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. However upon Mitsui’s acquisition of the additional voting shares in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, its operating results are now reported within line items of the consolidated statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2008. On the other hand, a LNG and oil development associated company, Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), recorded a slight increase in earnings. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment reported a ¥20.3 billion equity in earnings, a decrease of ¥1.1 billion, from ¥21.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. This segment recorded a loss reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in share price of ASAHI TEC CORPORATION (Japan), a manufacturer of ductile iron cast parts and aluminum forged parts. In addition, IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) and others recorded a total of ¥5.8 billion mark-to-market evaluation loss on long-term swap agreements at their overseas power operations for the year ended March 31, 2008(*2), while Brazilian gas distribution associated companies reported improved earnings. • Other operating segments also recorded improvement in general, mainly in the Consumer Service & IT Segment. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) was ¥153.1 billion, a significant increase of ¥58.9 billion, or 62.5%, from ¥94.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment reported ¥60.3 billion equity in earnings, a significant increase of ¥32.3 billion, from ¥28.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. This is attributable to Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM reflecting higher copper prices, and Valepar S.A. and Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reflecting higher iron ore prices. (*1) Valepar S.A. is a controlling shareholder of Vale, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, a mineral resources company in Brazil, previously abbreviated as “CVRD”. (*2) An Australian power producing operation of IPM Eagle had concluded a long term power price swap contract, corresponding to a power supply contract until 2016. Reflecting fluctuations in the Australian open electricity market, it recognizes mark-to-market evaluation profit and loss. See also “Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment” for further information. 95 Table of Contents • The Energy Segment reported ¥44.4 billion equity in earnings, an increase of ¥9.8 billion from ¥34.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Earnings increased at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty, Ltd. and at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd.. • Other operating segments also recorded improvement in general, mainly in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and the Consumer Service & IT Segment. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations—Net (After Income Tax Effect) Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Income from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥71.0 billion, a significant increase of ¥68.6 billion, or 2,858.3%, from ¥2.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major components of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2008, we divested our entire stake in Sesa Goa Limited (India) and recorded a ¥55.2 billion gain in income in line with an on-going optimization initiative of the business portfolio in our worldwide iron ore mining operations. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Sesa Goa Limited reported ¥1.4 billion in net income. • We divested our entire oil and gas producing interest in Wandoo Petroleum Pty Limited (Australia) and recorded a ¥9.6 billion gain in income. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Wandoo Petroleum Pty Limited reported ¥0.2 billion in net income. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, we liquidated an aircraft leasing company of Tombo Aviation (United States) after divesting all its aircraft and recorded ¥4.4 billion in income, while it reported ¥0.3 billion in income for the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc., which discontinued housing business during the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded a ¥0.2 billion gain in income. For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno recorded ¥1.1 billion in net loss. Mitsui Bussan House Techno recorded estimated cost of ¥5.3 billion to meet future requirements for products warranties and maintenance Services for the year ended March 31, 2007. For further information about the products warranties, refer to Note 22, “CONTINGENT LIABILITIES”. Except Mitsui Bussan House-Techno there is no significant contingent liability from the discontinued operations. For additional information about our discontinued operations, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, income from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) was ¥2.4 billion, a ¥15.1 billion improvement from a loss of ¥12.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. • The primary component of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2007 was Mitalco Inc. (United States) owned jointly by the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Americas Segment. Mitalco Inc. held a 32% stake in two aluminum smelting facilities in the United States and had mainly been engaged in manufacturing and the sale of aluminum. Because of the declining profitability resulting from the deterioration in the terms of the power purchase contract during the course of renewal negotiations, we divested our entire stake in both facilities. The income (loss) from the discontinued operation of Mitalco Inc. for the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 were ¥3.1 billion in income and a ¥14.5 billion loss, respectively. • The primary component of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2006 was Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), a crude oil trading subsidiary reported in the Energy Segment and the Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment. While Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. had been trading 96 Table of Contents physical crude oil as well as future oil and oil derivatives, its expanding activity under booming oil prices exposed us to larger risks, such as market risk, and would have required us to invest in additional operating resources. As a result of an overall review of the business model of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. and our business portfolio, we decided to sell all the shares of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. to a new owner. We divested all shares during the year ended March 31, 2006. The income from discontinued operation of Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. was minimal for the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating Results by Operating Segment The business units of Mitsui’s Head Office, which are organized based on “products and services,” plan overall and worldwide strategies for their products and services and conduct their worldwide operations. The business units also collaborate with overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries in planning and executing their strategies for products and regions. The overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries are separate operating units, which are delegated responsibility for the business of their regions as the centers of each particular regional strategy and operate diversified businesses together with their subsidiaries and associated companies in collaboration with the business units. Therefore, our operating segments consist of product-focused operating segments comprised of the business units of the Head Office and region-focused operating segments comprised of overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries. Our operating segments have been aggregated based on the nature of the products and other criteria into eight product-focused reportable operating segments and three region-focused reportable operating segments, totaling eleven reportable operating segments. Based on the reorganization effective April 1, 2007, the operating segment is changed as below. The operating segment information for the year ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 has been restated to conform to the current year presentation. • “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals” changed its name to “Mineral & Metal Resources” and coal and nuclear fuel businesses previously included in “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals”, were transferred to “Energy.” • The former “Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication” changed its name to “Consumer Service & IT” to reflect the change of the composition of the reportable segment. • The former “Asia” changed its name to “Asia Pacific”, newly including subsidiaries in the Oceania region which were formerly included in “Other Overseas Areas.” • The former “Europe” changed its name to “Europe, the Middle East and Africa”, newly including subsidiaries in the Middle East, Africa and Russia which were formerly included in “Other Overseas Areas.” 97 Table of Contents Our operating segment information for gross profit, operating income (loss), equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies and net income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows: Operating Segment Information Gross Profit Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 61.3 ¥ 57.7 ¥ 54.4 ¥ 3.6 ¥ 3.3 Mineral & Metal Resources 95.8 111.0 88.5 (15.2 ) 22.5 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 134.1 108.0 90.6 26.1 17.4 Chemical 110.3 103.1 97.8 7.2 5.3 Energy 219.3 123.9 107.0 95.4 16.9 Foods & Retail 81.2 81.3 79.9 (0.1 ) 1.4 Consumer Service & IT 116.7 130.0 128.4 (13.3 ) 1.6 Logistics & Financial Markets 55.1 60.5 51.4 (5.4 ) 9.1 Americas 54.0 64.7 61.6 (10.7 ) 3.1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 26.8 25.4 24.3 1.4 1.1 Asia Pacific 33.1 30.7 30.4 2.4 0.3 Total 987.7 896.3 814.3 91.4 82.0 All Other 5.5 4.3 7.1 1.2 (2.8 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (5.1 ) (34.3 ) (36.8 ) 29.2 2.5 Consolidated Total ¥ 988.1 ¥ 866.3 ¥ 784.6 ¥ 121.8 ¥ 81.7 98 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 25.6 ¥ 25.6 ¥ 26.5 ¥ 0.0 ¥ (0.9 ) Mineral & Metal Resources 79.0 91.3 68.5 (12.3 ) 22.8 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 32.0 20.9 21.7 11.1 (0.8 ) Chemical 46.2 35.3 34.0 10.9 1.3 Energy 172.4 81.3 70.7 91.1 10.6 Foods & Retail 16.6 10.9 9.2 5.7 1.7 Consumer Service & IT 18.9 20.3 25.0 (1.4 ) (4.7 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 20.9 24.2 17.6 (3.3 ) 6.6 Americas 2.0 21.4 21.7 (19.4 ) (0.3 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa 1.8 3.0 4.7 (1.2 ) (1.7 ) Asia Pacific 7.6 9.5 11.2 (1.9 ) (1.7 ) Total 423.0 343.7 310.8 79.3 32.9 All Other (1.4 ) (4.4 ) (3.2 ) 3.0 (1.2 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (46.8 ) (56.5 ) (59.9 ) 9.7 3.4 Consolidated Total ¥ 374.8 ¥ 282.8 ¥ 247.7 ¥ 92.0 ¥ 35.1 Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income (loss) reflects our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses and (c) provision for doubtful receivables, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 4.9 ¥ 3.1 ¥ 2.9 ¥ 1.8 ¥ 0.2 Mineral & Metal Resources 71.2 60.3 28.0 10.9 32.3 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 20.3 21.4 14.6 (1.1 ) 6.8 Chemical 5.8 4.9 3.2 0.9 1.7 Energy 36.8 44.4 34.6 (7.6 ) 9.8 Foods & Retail 3.1 3.8 3.5 (0.7 ) 0.3 Consumer Service & IT 8.2 8.7 3.5 (0.5 ) 5.2 Logistics & Financial Markets (1.8 ) 2.0 3.9 (3.8 ) (1.9 ) Americas 5.0 3.8 2.1 1.2 1.7 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 0.3 0.3 (0.2 ) 0.0 0.5 Asia Pacific 1.1 0.7 0.8 0.4 (0.1 ) Total 154.9 153.4 96.9 1.5 56.5 All Other 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.0 (0.2 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (0.7 ) (0.4 ) (3.0 ) (0.3 ) 2.6 Consolidated Total ¥ 154.3 ¥ 153.1 ¥ 94.2 ¥ 1.2 ¥ 58.9 99 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 20.3 ¥ 20.6 ¥ 19.3 ¥ (0.3 ) ¥ 1.3 Mineral & Metal Resources 177.0 98.3 44.8 78.7 53.5 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 35.0 33.6 30.6 1.4 3.0 Chemical 18.4 19.3 12.1 (0.9 ) 7.2 Energy 124.1 75.7 50.8 48.4 24.9 Foods & Retail 10.5 (12.3 ) (3.2 ) 22.8 (9.1 ) Consumer Service & IT 12.0 16.6 17.5 (4.6 ) (0.9 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 7.5 14.6 13.4 (7.1 ) 1.2 Americas 4.3 16.9 12.7 (12.6 ) 4.2 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 5.0 4.1 5.0 0.9 (0.9 ) Asia Pacific 22.5 22.0 22.8 0.5 (0.8 ) Total 436.6 309.4 225.8 127.2 83.6 All Other (7.1 ) 5.8 11.8 (12.9 ) (6.0 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (19.4 ) (13.7 ) (35.2 ) (5.7 ) 21.5 Consolidated Total ¥ 410.1 ¥ 301.5 ¥ 202.4 ¥ 108.6 ¥ 99.1 Iron & Steel Products Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 61.3 ¥ 57.7 ¥ 54.4 ¥ 3.6 ¥ 3.3 Operating Income 25.6 25.6 26.5 0.0 (0.9 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 4.9 3.1 2.9 1.8 0.2 Net Income 20.3 20.6 19.3 (0.3 ) 1.3 100 Table of Contents Comparison between the Year Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥61.3 billion, an increase of ¥3.6 billion from ¥57.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Overall steel products business continued to show solid performance mainly in high-end tubular products for energy applications, automobile steel plates and shipbuilding steel plates. Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. (Singapore) also contributed to the increase in earnings, reflecting robust operations for construction material, tubular products and steel plates for the Asian market. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥25.6 billion, the same as the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase in gross profit was mainly offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥4.9 billion, an increase of ¥1.8 billion from ¥3.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥20.3 billion, a ¥0.3 billion decrease from ¥20.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, due to a decrease of gain on sales of securities, although there was an increase in equity in earnings of associated companies. Comparison between the Year Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥57.7 billion, an increase of ¥3.3 billion from ¥54.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The overall steel products market conditions stayed firm, reflecting tight global supply-demand balance and steady domestic economy. Transactions in high-end products such as steel sheets and plates for automobiles and shipbuilding, steel tubular products and line pipes for oil and gas development especially contributed to the high level of gross profit. Furthermore, rising stainless steel products prices and strong performance at Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. contributed to the increase in gross profit. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥25.6 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥26.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables outweighed the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.1 billion, an increase of ¥0.2 billion from ¥2.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥20.6 billion, a ¥1.3 billion increase from ¥19.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Gains on sales of shares in domestic listed companies and dividend income from an overseas steel manufacturer contributed to increases in net income, offsetting the decrease in operating income. Mineral & Metal Resources Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 95.8 ¥ 111.0 ¥ 88.5 ¥ (15.2 ) ¥ 22.5 Operating Income 79.0 91.3 68.5 (12.3 ) 22.8 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 71.2 60.3 28.0 10.9 32.3 Net Income 177.0 98.3 44.8 78.7 53.5 101 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥95.8 billion, a decrease of ¥15.2 billion from ¥111.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 as a result of the following: • The divestiture in April 2007 of our entire holding in Sesa Goa Limited, formerly our iron ore subsidiary, which resulted in a decrease of this segment’s gross profit by ¥27.2 billion(*), the amount which Sesa Goa Limited contributed for the year ended March 31, 2007. • The International Iron and Steel Institute reported in May 2008 that global crude steel output for 2007 (calendar year) maintained a high level of 1,344 million metric tons, following 1,250 million metric tons for 2006. Reflecting tight supply-demand balance in Asia, especially in China, iron ore prices for the year ending March 31, 2008 increased by 9.5 % from the year ended March 31, 2007. Consequently, gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) increased by ¥8.7 billion and ¥4.3 billion, respectively. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis, preliminary figures) stayed at almost the same levels of 22.6 million tons and 3.1 million tons respectively for the year ended March 31, 2008, from 22.8 million tons and 2.9 million tons respectively for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥79.0 billion, a decrease of ¥12.3 billion from ¥91.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, due to the above-mentioned decrease in gross profit. There was a marginal improvement in selling, general administrative expenses as a result of the divestiture of Sesa Goa Limited. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥71.2 billion, an increase of ¥10.9 billion from ¥60.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major factors contributing to the increase were as follows: • Valepar S.A. (Brazil) posted a net income of ¥34.1 billion, an increase by ¥9.1 billion from ¥25.0 billion including a ¥5.6 billion one-time gain on issuance of stock by Vale in exchange for Caemi Mineraçã o e Metalurgia S.A stock in the year ended March 31, 2007. This increase is due to strong operating results of Vale reflecting higher iron prices and contributions from newly acquired Inco Limited (currently Vale Inco Limited) following the acquisition by Vale during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. • Earnings of Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) was a net income of ¥18.9 billion, a decrease of ¥0.3 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007. The LME copper price for 2007 (calendar year) was U.S.$7,126 per ton on average compared to U.S.$6,731 per ton for 2006 (calendar year). • Sims Group Limited (Australia), a metal recycler, added a new contribution in earnings of ¥1.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥177.0 billion, a significant increase of ¥78.7 billion from ¥98.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Besides the above-mentioned factors, there were significant gains from divestitures for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded a ¥93.9 billion gain on the sale of its whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited(*). In addition, it also recorded a ¥12.4 billion gain on the sale of shares in Empreendimentos Brasileiros de Mineração S.A. (*) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of Sesa Goa for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). However, in this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, operating results of Sesa Goa have been included in and presented as continuing operation. 102 Table of Contents • For the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, this segment recorded ¥14.2 billion and ¥9.4 billion gains on the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan), respectively. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥111.0 billion, an increase of ¥22.5 billion from ¥88.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The International Iron and Steel Institute reported in May 2007 that global crude steel output for 2006 (calendar year) maintained a high level of 1,244 million metric tons, following 1,142 million metric tons for 2005. Iron ore prices for the year ended March 31, 2007 rose by 19% from the year ended March 31, 2006, resulting in increases in gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd., and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. by ¥13.7 billion, and ¥3.6 billion, respectively. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis) increased slightly to 21.9 million tons and 2.9 million tons, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2007 from 21.8 million tons and 2.5 million tons, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥9l.3 billion, an increase of ¥22.8 billion from ¥68.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥60.3 billion, a significant increase of ¥32.3 billion from ¥28.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors were as follows: • Supported by higher market prices of their mining products, our equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. was ¥25.0 billion, including a ¥5.6 billion gain on issuance of stock by Vale in exchange for Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A stock, which was a ¥10.4 billion increase from the year ended March 31, 2006. • Robe River Mining Company Pty. Ltd. (Australia), an iron ore mining company, recorded earnings of ¥12.3 billion, an increase of ¥3.3 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. • Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM recorded earnings of ¥19.2 billion, an increase of ¥15.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, due to the rise in copper prices as well as a tax effect on its retained earnings for the additional Chilean tax charged to dividend recipients which took place in the year ended March 31, 2006. The LME copper price for 2006 (calendar year) was U.S.$6,731 per ton on average, a significant increase from U.S.$3,684 per ton for 2005 (calendar year). Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥98.3 billion, a ¥53.5 billion increase from ¥44.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In addition to improvements in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, the following components contributed to this increase: • This segment recorded a ¥14.2 billion gain on the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, an aluminum smelting subsidiary, Mitalco Inc. (United States), recorded an ¥11.8 billion impairment loss on plant facilities and ¥11.5 billion in other expenses including impairment on goodwill. However, it recorded a gain on the sale of its stake in aluminum smelters for the year ended March 31, 2007. 103 Table of Contents Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Iron Ore, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance The iron ore production joint venture businesses in Australia and other regions in which we participate with major overseas mineral resources companies conclude supply contracts with Japanese steel manufacturers and major clients in other countries every year. Based on such contracts, sales prices are reviewed and renegotiated each fiscal year. (Unit prices for iron ore from each mine in production also reflect the difference of respective grades and types.) Annual prices of iron ore for the year ending March 31, 2009 have risen sharply after long negotiations between major mining houses and worldwide major users. Price negotiation on Brazilian iron ore was firstly settled in February 2008, resulting in a 65% price increase for a certain ore type over the annual prices for the year ended March 31, 2008. Later on, in June and July 2008, Australian lump ore and fine ore prices were fixed, reflecting increase of 96.5% and 79.88%, respectively over the annual prices for the year ended March 31, 2008. FOB prices of Brazilian iron ore and Australian iron ore had been the same level as a customary practice in this industry up to the year ended March 31, 2008. However, Australian iron ore producers insisted that different price be applied, reflecting ocean freight difference between Australia and Brazil to major steel making countries, China and Japan. Fluctuations in iron ore prices directly affect revenues from the equity-based production at our iron ore subsidiaries and associated companies. For the year ending March 31, 2009, we estimate that the impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in iron ore price would be approximately ¥2.6 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2008, the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies amounted to approximately 40 million tons of iron ore. The above-mentioned effect is calculated based on the assumptions of an estimated increase in production in line with our holdings after the year ended March 31, 2008, and a specific range of foreign exchange rates for the Japanese yen, U.S. dollar, Australian dollar and Brazilian real. Efforts are being undertaken at each mine to expand production and shipments, but production costs are increasing amid a global trend of rising material and equipment costs as well as utility costs. In natural resource producing countries such as Australia and Brazil, there is a general trend toward currency appreciation in line with the growing export of those products, resulting in a negative impact on the revenues of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production In order to respond to tightening supply-demand balance, major iron ore producers are investing to increase production capacity. As of March 31, 2008, noteworthy developments in iron ore projects in which we hold stakes are as follows: (Unless otherwise noted, production amounts represent a 100% basis.) • Our iron ore mining joint ventures led by the BHP Billiton group have completed expanding to raise the combined iron ore production capacity to 129 million tons per annum from 118 million tons. In addition, the joint venture members have further agreed to an expansion plan to increase annual production capacity to 155 million tons and to start production by 2010. Furthermore, joint venture members have agreed to approve capital investment representing pre-approval of expenditures involving the expansion of railway and ports in parallel with current construction, with the aim being to increase annual production capacity to 200 million tons by 2011. • In the iron ore mining joint venture led by Rio Tinto group, participants have agreed to a plan to increase port capacity at Cape Lambert in the Pilbara region of Western Australia from nameplate capacity of 55 to 80 million tons per annum by the end of 2008 and construction is ongoing. 104 Table of Contents Furthermore, the joint venture decided to develop the Mesa A / Warramboo mine in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. The new mine will have a full scale capacity of 25 million tons per annum and is expected to start production in 2010. The total mine life of Mesa A is expected to be 11 years. With this addition, total production of Robe Valley pisolite ore will be maintained at 32 million tons per annum. Including those we are participating in, most of the iron ore mining projects have plans for expanding their production capacity. As there are too many uncertainties including demand from China and other emerging countries, it is difficult for our management to draw up definitive forecasts on supply-demand balance and prices at this point in time. Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 134.1 ¥ 108.0 ¥ 90.6 ¥ 26.1 ¥ 17.4 Operating Income 32.0 20.9 21.7 11.1 (0.8 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 20.3 21.4 14.6 (1.1 ) 6.8 Net Income 35.0 33.6 30.6 1.4 3.0 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥134.1 billion, an increase of ¥26.1 billion from ¥108.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Overseas automotive-related subsidiaries continued to post solid performance, particularly the motorcycle retail finance company P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) reported higher gross profit, along with an automobile sales dealer company in Russia and other areas. In addition, there were contributions from a newly acquired machine tools subsidiary, Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States). • Ocean vessels and marine project businesses showed overall strong performance through marketing newly built and second hand vessels, operating and chartering vessels and energy related businesses, supported by continued strong demand. • Gross profit increased due to expanding operations at the two rolling stock leasing subsidiaries in Europe and plant businesses including power generation businesses. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥32.0 billion, an increase of ¥11.1 billion from ¥20.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase is primarily attributable to the improvement in gross profit in ocean vessels and marine project businesses and infrastructure projects businesses. Operating income of automotive and machine tools related subsidiaries slightly increased, as increases in their gross profit was mostly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥20.3 billion, a decrease of ¥1.1 billion from ¥21.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Overseas power producing businesses such as IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) and P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia) reported equity in earnings of ¥4.1 billion in total, a decrease of ¥5.4 billion from ¥9.5 billion earnings for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease is due to a ¥5.8 billion mark-to-market evaluation losses for the year ended March 31, 2008 which were recorded mainly by IPM Eagle on long-term swap contracts, among others in its Australian power producing operations. 105 Table of Contents • This segment recorded a ¥4.4 billion equity in loss reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in share price of ASAHI TEC CORPORATION (Japan)(*1), a manufacturer of ductile iron cast parts and aluminum forged parts. • The other associated companies reported improved earnings in general, such as the gas distribution companies in Brazil and the automotive and construction machinery related businesses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥35.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.4 billion from ¥33.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned factors, for the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded: • gains on sales of aircraft which were previously leased to others at Tombo Aviation, Inc. (United States)(*2); and • a ¥8.6 billion loss on the write down of shares in Yamaha Motors Co., Ltd., reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in its market price(*3). Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥108.0 billion, an increase of ¥17.4 billion from ¥90.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. • In machinery business fields, improvement in gross profit was primarily attributable to a motorcycle retail finance company, P.T. Bussan Auto Finance, and automotive-related subsidiaries in the Americas and Europe and overseas construction machinery subsidiaries, as well as ocean vessels and marine project businesses. • In infrastructure projects business fields, gross profit slightly increased due to expanding operations of rolling stock leasing subsidiaries in Europe and the Americas, while there were decreases in executed and completed amounts of various overseas construction projects including power plant projects. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥20.9 billion, a decrease of ¥0.8 billion from ¥21.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease is primarily attributable to the decrease in gross profit related to overseas plant project businesses and a new provision for doubtful receivables for an overseas customer. Operating income of subsidiaries in the machinery business and rolling stock leasing subsidiaries improved slightly. However, the growth in gross profit was largely offset by the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables especially to automotive related customers. (*1) Regarding investment in associated companies listed on Japanese and/or overseas stock exchanges, when we observe an other-than-temporary decline including the case that its book value exceeds the market value, we recognize a balance between the book value and market value as loss in account title of equity in loss of associated companies. The market price of ASAHI TECH Corporation (listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange) declined significantly from the end of 2006 to the middle of 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, we concluded it was an other-than-temporary decline in fair value loss in the account title of equity in earnings/losses of associated companies. (*2) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of Tombo Aviation, Inc. for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 are presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). However, in this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, operating results of the company are presented and discussed according to line items of the consolidated statements of income. (*3) Mitsui’s Management principally recognizes that a 50% or more decline in fair value of a security from cost leads to the conclusion that the security has an other-than-temporary impairment. In addition, management recognizes an other-than-temporary impairment in case of a 30% or more and less than 50% decline, considering the materiality of declined value. The closing share price of Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. at the Tokyo Stock Exchange was ¥1,834 leading to a more than 30% decline from the cost. As of the end of June 2008, its closing share price at the Tokyo Stock Exchange was ¥1,987, which was slightly less than a 30% decline. 106 Table of Contents Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥21.4 billion, an increase of ¥6.8 billion from ¥14.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Equity in earnings of overseas power producing businesses recorded an increase of ¥3.9 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, which was mainly attributable to a strong performance by IPM Eagle LLP including contribution from the Saltend Power Plant acquired in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2006 and P.T. Paiton Energy. In addition, a newly acquired gas distribution business in Brazil contributed, and overseas associated companies engaged in automotive related business and construction machinery business performed strongly as well. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥33.6 billion, an increase of ¥3.0 billion from ¥30.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, principally due to the increase in equity in earnings, while partly offset by increased interest expense. Chemical Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 110.3 ¥ 103.1 ¥ 97.8 ¥ 7.2 ¥ 5.3 Operating Income 46.2 35.3 34.0 10.9 1.3 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 5.8 4.9 3.2 0.9 1.7 Net Income (Loss) 18.4 19.3 12.1 (0.9 ) 7.2 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥110.3 billion, an increase of ¥7.2 billion from ¥103.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The principal developments in this segment were as follows: • Gross profit continued to stay at high levels, reflecting a solid performance mainly in ammonia and methanol; however, the basic petrochemicals business recorded a decrease in gross profit due to a sharp decrease in margins following a rapid increase in prices of crude oil and naphtha. • Gross profit increased at Novus International, Inc. (United States), a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary, due to improvement in both sales volume and margin. Business expansions of agricultural chemicals in Europe also contributed to achieving improved gross profit. • The sulphur business improved its performance, substantially supported by a globally strong demand for agriculture products. Performance of inorganic chemicals and plastics including IT related parts and components remained solid, reflecting a strong demand particularly in Asia. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥46.2 billion, an increase of ¥10.9 billion from ¥35.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The improvement was primary attributable to the increase in gross profit, and also to the one-time expense from the increase in provision for doubtful receivables at Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio (Brazil) for the year ended March 31, 2007. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.8 billion, an increase of ¥0.9 billion from ¥4.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥18.4 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥19.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Besides the above-mentioned improvements for the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded the following: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, this segment recorded a credit to income of ¥3.9 billion as a result of the reversal of the accrued cost which had been set up based on estimated cost for compensation and 107 Table of Contents other charges related to the DPF incident during past years as a result of completion of the redemption of the relevant DPFs. For more information, see Note 21, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” • This segment recorded a gain on the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd., for the years ended March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded a ¥4.7 billion loss on the write down of shares mainly in Kaneka Corporation, reflecting other-than-temporary decline in their market prices. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit was ¥103.1 billion, an increase of ¥5.3 billion from ¥97.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The principal developments in this segment were as follows: • In basic petrochemicals fields ranging from basic materials to mid-stream intermediate products, gross profit slightly decreased in aggregate. This segment experienced decline in profit from olefin business under tight supply-demand balance due to significant inflation in material cost, and ammonia business due to reduced trading volume, while profit from methanol, styrene and paraxylene businesses increased supported by tight market conditions. • The liquid crystal related module business continued to be robust and so was plastics including IT related parts and components, and inorganic mineral and raw materials such as salt, titanium oxide and sulfur, reflecting strong demand of those materials especially in Asia. • Gross profit increased by ¥4.0 billion at Novus International, Inc., whose profit margin recovered due to improvement in market prices as well as reduced pressure from raw materials prices coupled with reversal effects of the losses associated with hurricane Katrina, which hit the United States during the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥35.3 billion, an increase of ¥1.3 billion from ¥34.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The improvement in gross profit was partly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and the provision for doubtful receivables including that of Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4.9 billion, an increase of ¥1.7 billion from ¥3.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, mainly due to the contribution of International Methanol Company (Saudi Arabia), a methanol manufacturer, supported by a favorable market environment. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥19.3 billion, an increase of ¥7.2 billion from ¥12.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In addition to the increases in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, Mitsui recorded a credit to income of ¥3.9 billion as a result of the reversal of the accrued cost related to the DPF incident during past years as a result of completion of redemption of the relevant DPFs. Mitsui recorded a ¥9.0 billion user response charge for the year ended March 31, 2006. Energy Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 219.3 ¥ 123.9 ¥ 107.0 ¥ 95.4 ¥ 16.9 Operating Income 172.4 81.3 70.7 91.1 10.6 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 36.8 44.4 34.6 (7.6 ) 9.8 Net Income 124.1 75.7 50.8 48.4 24.9 108 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 After reaching U.S.$72 per barrel in September 2006, Japan Crude Cocktail (“JCC”) dropped to U.S.$55 per barrel in February 2007. It then bounced back sharply and reached U.S.$95.4 per barrel in March 2008. On average, crude oil prices continued to rise, reflecting strong demand supported by global expansion, geopolitical uncertainty surrounding supply from the Middle East and other oil producing regions, and an influx of speculative money into the futures markets. Average JCC for the year ended March 31, 2008 was U.S.$78.71 per barrel compared to U.S.$ 63.50 per barrel for the year ended March 31, 2007. Average JCC for calendar year 2007 was U.S.$69.41 compared to U.S.$ 63.94 for calendar year 2006. We have found that the JCC price trend is generally reflected in the net income of our overseas oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies in this segment within a zero to 6 month time lag. Considering these time lags, Mitsui periodically calculates the weighted average JCC price applied to operating results of those oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies for internal reviewing purposes. Such weighted average JCC prices for internal reviewing purposes for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 were U.S.$71 per barrel and U.S.$64 per barrel, respectively. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥219.3 billion, a significant increase of ¥95.4 billion from ¥123.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 primarily due to the following factors: • As a result of Mitsui’s acquisition of additional voting shares in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) during the 4th quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., formerly an associated company, became a subsidiary with Mitsui’s 50.3% voting interest (51.03% as of March 31, 2008). There was a new contribution to gross profit from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. of ¥58.4 billion coming from this acquisition of shares. There were also new contributions of ¥23.9 billion by Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia) due to the start of oil production at the Enfield oil field in July 2006 as well as the Tui oil filed in July 2007. Moreover, Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reported an ¥8.6 billion increase, reflecting increased shipment of condensate and higher prices; and Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) operating in Oman reported an increase of ¥5.6 billion, reflecting increased prices. • The price for representative Australian hard coking coal for the year ending March 31, 2008 declined by approximately 15.5% to U.S.$92 per ton FOB. At the same time soft coking coal prices rose in general by 9%. For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) decreased significantly by ¥11.9 billion, reflecting lower coal prices, appreciation of the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar, delay of expansion projects and other operational troubles including heavy rainfall. Although the expansion plan in the Dawson mine has been completed, shipments by Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2008 were approximately 7.9 million tons, a slight increase from 6.8 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2007 due to the above-mentioned operation troubles. As of April 2008, the operational trouble at the Dawson mine had been remedied in general and it is currently concentrating on stabilizing production. • There were ¥9.6 billion naphtha trading losses at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) for the year ended March 31, 2007. • In domestic sales operations, Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded a ¥3.3 billion increase, reflecting higher sales prices; however, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported a decrease due to reduced margins related to a sharp increase in crude oil prices. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥172.4 billion, an increase of ¥91.1 billion from ¥81.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase in gross profit was partly offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses, particularly at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd.. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥36.8 billion, a decrease of ¥7.6 billion from ¥44.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. 109 Table of Contents (Australia), which is engaged in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in Western Australia, recorded a slight increase in earnings. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., as an associated company up to the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, reported ¥8.4 billion equity in earnings for the year ended March 31, 2007, but has been consolidated for the year ended March 31, 2008. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥124.1 billion, a significant increase of ¥48.4 billion from ¥75.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Besides the above-mentioned developments, the following factors contributed to this increase: • This segment divested 50% of its shares in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and recorded relevant gains on sale of the shares for the year ended March 31, 2008. • This segment recorded a ¥20.2 billion gain (pre-tax) on the sale of its entire oil and gas producing interests in Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Mitsui’s profit share 71.7%) for the year ended March 31, 2008(*1). • Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman were ¥23.4 billion, a decrease of ¥3.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2007. • This segment reported an impairment loss on power producing equipment at GTF Green Power Co., Ltd. (Japan), a domestic power producing operation, for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries increased by ¥18.9 billion (in expense) related to consolidation of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. by Mitsui in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. • Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia) recorded a Petroleum Resource Rent tax (“PRRT”) of ¥9.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008(*2). Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, the crude oil market remained volatile with the average price of JCC reaching a high of U.S.$72.06 per barrel in September 2006, and then dropping back to U.S.$55.08 per barrel in February 2007. On average, crude oil prices continued to rise reflecting increased demand along with the expansion of the global economy, geopolitical uncertainty surrounding supply from the Middle East and other oil producing regions, and an influx of speculative money into the futures markets. Average JCC for the year ended March 31, 2007 rose to U.S.$63.58 per barrel from U.S.$55.80 per barrel for the year ended March 31, 2006. Average JCC for calendar year 2006 was U.S.$64.08 compared to U.S.$51.11 for calendar year 2005. (*1) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of the assets of Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). (*2) PRRT applies to all petroleum projects in Australian offshore areas (or Commonwealth adjacent areas), other than production licenses derived from the North West Shelf exploration permits. (Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. participates in the North West Shelf LNG project.) Therefore, Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited, our oil and gas exploration and production subsidiary in Australia, is subject to this tax. PRRT is assessed as follows: • PRRT is levied on the taxable profits of a petroleum project at a rate of 40%. The taxable profit of a project is the excess of assessable receipts over operating expenditures; and exploration and development expenditures. Exploration and development expenditures are deductible on an accrual basis, including the period when these expenditures are capitalized on the balance sheets. • All undeducted expenditures are eligible for compounding. The expenditures can be compounded annually at set rates (Australian long term bond yields and specified spreads), and the compounded amount is deducted against assessable receipts in future years. • PRRT is deductible for Australian income tax computation. 110 Table of Contents Mitsui periodically calculates the weighted average JCC price applied to operating results of oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies for internal reviewing purposes. Such weighted average JCC prices for internal reviewing purposes for the year ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 were U.S.$64 per barrel and U.S.$50 per barrel, respectively. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥123.9 billion, an increase of ¥16.9 billion from ¥107.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 primarily due to the following: • There were new contributions of ¥16.4 billion by Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited due to the start-up of oil production at the Enfield oil field in July 2006 and ¥2.1 billion by MitEnergy Upstream LLC (United States) which acquired oil and gas interests in the Gulf of Mexico from Pogo Producing Company. Rising crude oil prices resulted in an increase in gross profit of overseas subsidiaries engaged in the development and production of oil and gas, including a ¥5.3 billion increase at Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. operating in Oman. • As a result of Mitsui’s acquisition of additional voting shares in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. during the fourth quarter of this fiscal year, it became a subsidiary in which Mitsui has a 50.3% voting interest. There was a new ¥15.1 billion contribution from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. • In November 2006, it was found that one of the traders at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) had incurred, but concealed by deceptively reporting, significant unrealized losses on physical and future trading of naphtha. Primarily because accumulated losses realized through orderly liquidation of the relevant transactions amounted to ¥9.6 billion, gross profit at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. declined by ¥10.1 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. Total contribution of oil products trading in this segment, with the exception of Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd., for the year ended March 31, 2007 was almost at the same level as the year ended March 31, 2006. • Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. recorded an increase of ¥3.0 billion due to its success in raising the sales prices of products and subsequent decline in costs reflecting the fall in crude oil prices after summer 2006. On the other hand, Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded decreases in gross profit of ¥2.2 billion affected by reduced margin of its products. • The price for representative Australian metallurgical coal for the year ending March 31, 2007 decreased by approximately 10%. In addition, pressure from surging material and fuel costs resulted in an ¥11.0 billion decline in gross profit at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. from the year ended March 31, 2006. Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal declined to U.S.$110 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2007 from U.S.$125 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2006. Shipments by Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. increased to 6.7 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2007 from 5.9 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2006 due to improvement of a delay in stripping work caused by a labor and material shortage. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥81.3 billion, an increase of ¥10.6 billion from ¥70.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase in gross profit was partly offset by a provision for doubtful receivables for an overseas oil exploration company. Reflecting higher crude oil prices, equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥44.4 billion, an increase of ¥9.8 billion from ¥34.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase was mainly attributable to Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd., which is involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in Western Australia. In addition, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. recorded earnings of ¥8.4 billion, an increase of ¥2.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006, despite being classified as an associated company for only nine months up to the third quarter for this fiscal year. 111 Table of Contents Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥75.7 billion, a significant increase of ¥24.9 billion from ¥50.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Other than the increases in operating income and equity in earnings, there were the following factors: • Interest expense related to the Sakhalin II project increased by ¥9.0 billion as a result of an increase in interest bearing debt which was used to fund the increasing investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. and an increase in the U.S. dollar interest rates. • Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman were ¥26.6 billion, an increase of ¥13.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2006. • This segment significantly increased repatriation of undistributed earnings from overseas subsidiaries and associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increased dividends received from those overseas entities resulted in a significant increase in Japanese income tax expenses in this segment for the year ended March 31, 2006. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for oil and gas, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance A survey conducted by the International Energy Agency (May 2008) indicated that world crude oil demand in 2007 was 85.7 million barrels per day, with an estimated demand for 2008 of 86.8 million barrels per day. As of May 2008, general observations on short-term supply-demand balance of crude oil by agencies and corporations in this industry suggest that: • In the latter half of the year ended March 31, 2008, there were considerable inflows of money into commodity markets, reflecting U.S. dollar depreciation led by a credit crunch and the FRB’s policy interest rate cuts, which resulted in continued run-up of crude oil price. The United States and other leading industrialized countries repeatedly called to Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) for production increases. However, OPEC has been inclined to maintain its official production ceilings, concerned about a drop in demand related to potential economic slowdown. • Recently, pricing in the crude oil market has been strongly influenced by the financial sector. Crude oil price is more influenced than before by the market participants’ trading behaviors and their circumstances, such as position closing before and after holidays and fund management, particularly towards the fiscal year end, as well as the continuously significant factors of supply-demand balance, geopolitical uncertainties, accidental events such as hurricane damage and troubles at refineries and other oil related facilities. Our production amount for the year ended March 31, 2008 was 55 million barrels, an increase of 3 million barrels from the year ended March 31, 2007 (gas is converted to barrels of oil at the ratio of 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas to 1 barrel of crude oil), as presented in Table 4, Proved Reserve Quantity Information of Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited). We expect that our production amount for the year ending March 31, 2009 will be almost the same level as the year ended March 31, 2008 or will increase slightly, considering contributions from the Vincent oil field project (located adjacent to the Enfield oil field) which is planned to start up production by September 2008 and the Tui crude oil field (New Zealand) which commenced production in July 2007, while a work over program at the Enfield oil field will partly offset those increasing factors. For further information about the work over program, refer to “Item 4.B. Business Overview—Energy Segment”. The commercial production from the Enfield Oil Field started in July 2006. In October 2006, one of the major production wells was shut-in due to unexpected sand production and early water breakthrough. We conducted drilling of additional wells and work-over of existing wells, which returned to production in September 2007. Following the completion of the work-over, the average production rate during 2007 was 112 Table of Contents approximately 47,000 barrels per day. However, due to sand production at two other major oil wells observed since December 2007, the average production rate during the first quarter of 2008 was below 29,000 barrels per day. The joint venture was conducting work-over of those wells as of June 2008. For the year ending March 31, 2009, a change of U.S.$1 per barrel in crude oil prices is expected to have an effect of ¥2.0 billion on net income as a result of changes in revenues of our oil and gas related subsidiaries and associated companies. Similar to the discussion regarding iron and steel raw materials, actual results of operations are also influenced by production costs, trends in foreign exchange rates and other factors surrounding those subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production The middle- and long-term trends in supply-demand balance and prices of crude oil are subject to far greater levels of uncertainty than trends in the short-term, and it is therefore difficult for management to make a definitive forecast. On the other hand, with respect to LNG, we are focusing on the changes in market structure that are currently taking place, and acting accordingly as follows: • In the past, the market has grown supported mainly by long-term purchase contracts by power and gas companies operating in Japan and the Far East. Expansion of incumbent projects and green field projects coming on stream will increase the volume of supply to the market, while demand, which has traditionally centered around the Far East, will be joined by growing demand from Europe and the United States, while huge markets in China and India will emerge. Therefore, globalization both in terms of supply-demand is expected to progress. In addition, as the opportunity for supply-demand adjustments in these markets increases, LNG is expected to become a more marketable commodity. • Long-term purchase contracts with Japanese companies in many projects are expected to come due for renewal around 2010, and more flexible terms reflecting the above-mentioned supply-demand balance trends will be requested from the buyers. In evaluating the opportunities for the expansion of incumbent projects or participation in green field projects, we are putting an emphasis on securing stable supply as well as diversifying our source of supply to enhance flexibility. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for coal, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance The same as the iron ore business, coal (metallurgical coal) production joint venture businesses in Australia and other regions in which we participate with major overseas mineral resources companies conclude supply contracts with Japanese steel manufacturers and major clients in other countries every year. Based on such contracts, sales prices are reviewed and renegotiated each fiscal year. For the year ending March 31, 2009, the annual prices of coal have risen sharply due to strong demand by emerging countries, especially China. (Unit prices for coal from each mine in production also reflect the difference of respective grades and types.) Up to the date of this annual report, we have observed that an indicative price for representative Australian premium hard coking coal, a type of metallurgical coal, rose to around U.S.$300 per ton/FOB for the year ending March 31, 2009. Generally, metallurgical coal prices rose approximately 200% from the year ended March 31, 2008. Also, some contracts indicate that the price for thermal coal rose to around U.S.$125 per ton /FOB for the year ending March 31, 2009. At the same time, in general, thermal coal prices have risen approximately 100% up from the year ended March 31, 2008. Fluctuations in iron ore prices directly affect revenues from the equity-based production at our coal subsidiaries and associated companies. For the year ending March 31, 2009, we calculate that an estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in coal price would be approximately ¥0.6 billion. 113 Table of Contents For the year ended March 31, 2008, the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies amounted to approximately 8 million tons of coal. For the year ending March 31, 2009, we expect that the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies will amount to approximately 9 million tons of coal. The above is calculated based on the assumptions of an estimated increase in production in line with our holdings after the year ended March 31, 2008, and a specific range of foreign exchange rates for the Japanese yen, the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar. With respect to coal mining joint ventures promoted with the Anglo American group, expansion work on the Dawson complex was completed by the year ended March 31, 2008, aiming to boost annual coal production from the present capacity of 6.5 million tons per annum to 12.7 million tons. We operate the mine putting priority on establishing stable production capability and reaching planned production capacity within the year ending March 31, 2009. Efforts are being undertaken at each mine to expand production and shipments, but production costs are increasing amid a global trend of rising material and equipment costs as well as utility costs. The Australian dollar appreciation against the U.S. dollar may have a negative impact on the revenues of our coal mining subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production In order to respond to tightening supply-demand balance, major coal producers are investing to increase production capacity. With respect to coal mining joint ventures with the Rio Tinto group, we approved the development of the new mining area owned by Kestrel Joint Venture in Queensland, Australia. This project will extend the operation period of Kestrel Joint Venture by developing the new mining area, as the existing mining areas are expected to be exhausted in 2014. Construction of this project will start within 2008 upon obtaining the government’s approvals. The operation is expected to commence in 2012. The project estimates a maximum 6.5 million tons per annum coal production and 20-year operation. Including those we are participating in, most of the coal mining projects have plans for expanding their production capacity. As there are too many uncertainties, including demand from China and other emerging countries, it is difficult for our management to draw up definitive forecasts on supply-demand balance and prices at this point in time. Foods & Retail Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 81.2 ¥ 81.3 ¥ 79.9 ¥ (0.1 ) ¥ 1.4 Operating Income 16.6 10.9 9.2 5.7 1.7 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 3.1 3.8 3.5 (0.7 ) 0.3 Net Income (Loss) 10.5 (12.3 ) (3.2 ) 22.8 (9.1 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥81.2 billion, a decrease of ¥0.1 billion from ¥81.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Food raw material business transactions showed solid performance, partly reflecting a run-up in prices. At the same time, this segment has been taking various cost reduction initiatives in the competitive, domestic food distribution and retail operations. • In October 2007, this business unit transferred 70% of its shares of Hokushuren Co., Ltd. (Japan), formerly a foods and liquor wholesale subsidiary, to KOKUBU, an unrelated entity, following the transfer of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.’s business in the Hokkaido area (excluding Seven & i Holdings 114 Table of Contents Co., Ltd.-related businesses) to Hokushuren Co., Ltd. As a result, gross profit of Hokushuren Company Limited decreased by ¥2.9 billion. Gross profit of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. decreased by ¥1.1 billion, primarily reflecting the reorganization of domestic distribution centers and exiting from unprofitable businesses. • There was an increased gross profit in the feed grain businesses, mainly in corn due to increased prices and trading transactions for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Gross profit of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) decreased slightly by ¥0.1 billion due to fierce competition mainly in the tea leaves business and rising material costs. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥16.6 billion, an increase of ¥5.7 billion from ¥10.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. succeeded in decreasing general, selling and administrative expenses, which resulted in a substantial improvement in their operating income, although their gross profit declined marginally due to less sales transactions as a result of exiting from unprofitable businesses. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥3.1 billion, a ¥0.7 billion decrease from ¥3.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥10.5 billion, a significant improvement of ¥22.8 billion from ¥12.3 billion net loss for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned development, major factors were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill of ¥12.1 billion and ¥16.5 billion, respectively, and moreover established a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. At the same time, a ¥8.3 billion minority interest in income from these losses was also recorded. For the year ended March 31, 2008, its operating results recovered to a marginally positive amount of income and zero minority interest is recorded. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui recognized a ¥4.5 billion loss on the write-down of the shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., following a decline in its share price. The major component of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2007 was a loss on intangible assets at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) due to deterioration of operating environment, such as intensifying competition in both beverage and beverage materials. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. used a discounted cash flow method based on its internal budget for evaluation of fair value of the intangible assets, and used its weighted average capital cost for the discount rate in evaluating fair values of intangible assets. Following recognition of the impairment losses (including the loss on its goodwill), the book values of fixed assets and intangible assets as of March 31, 2008 and 2007 were ¥9.5 billion and ¥10.0 billion, respectively. While there may be fluctuations from future developments in the market management expects that Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. will continue to record positive, but not substantial, net income considering its market and its competitive position in the beverage industry. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded net income of ¥0.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, a marginal income but reasonable level considering strict business conditions. Management also believes that the estimation and assumption for this impairment loss has been specific to Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd., and does not expect such estimation and assumption to have a material impact on our future consolidated operating results excluding Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. For more information, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥81.3 billion, an increase of ¥1.4 billion from ¥79.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major factors were as follows: • Gross profit of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. decreased by ¥1.1 billion, primarily reflecting the termination of business relations with The Daiei, Inc, a Japanese national retailer. 115 Table of Contents • Gross profit of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. decreased by ¥2.9 billion due to poor performance in beverage and beverage materials businesses and divestiture of non-core businesses. • Gross profit of Hokushuren Company Limited increased by ¥3.1 billion. There was a full year contribution from Hokushuren Company Limited which was acquired in the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥10.9 billion, an increase of ¥1.7 billion from ¥9.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In addition to improvement in gross profit, there was a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses. Among others, a ¥3.2 billion reduction was reported by MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. reflecting decreased personnel expenses and depreciation costs. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.8 billion, a ¥0.3 billion increase from ¥3.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The segment recorded net loss of ¥12.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, a ¥9.1 billion deterioration from ¥3.2 billion net loss for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decline for the year ended March 31, 2007 was attributable to the following factors: • Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill of ¥12.1 billion and ¥16.5 billion, respectively, and moreover established valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. At the same time, an ¥8.3 billion minority interest in these losses was also recorded. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. recorded ¥6.0 billion impairment losses on land and distribution facilities which became idle as a result of the reorganization of distribution bases. For the year ended March 31, 2007, it reported further ¥2.2 billion impairment losses of long-lived assets and ¥1.4 billion other expenses incurred from its business reorganization. In addition Hokushuren Company Limited reported the sum of ¥1.4 billion impairment loss of long-lived assets and other expenses. Consumer Service & IT Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 116.7 ¥ 130.0 ¥ 128.4 ¥ (13.3 ) ¥ 1.6 Operating Income 18.9 20.3 25.0 (1.4 ) (4.7 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 8.2 8.7 3.5 (0.5 ) 5.2 Net Income 12.0 16.6 17.5 (4.6 ) (0.9 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥116.7 billion, a decrease of ¥13.3 billion from ¥130.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The primary cause of the decrease is related to business reorganization including withdrawals from or divestitures of existing businesses; for example, the housing business of Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan)(*), Mitsui Bussan Forestry Co., Ltd. (Japan), two cable television providers and certain textile and general merchandise businesses. In addition, IT related businesses mainly in the system integration sector reported a marginal decline, while real estate businesses in Japan and Europe showed steady performance. (*) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 is presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). However, in this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, operating results of the company are presented and discussed according to line items of the consolidated statements of income. 116 Table of Contents Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥18.9 billion, a decrease of ¥1.4 billion from ¥20.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The improvements in selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily at Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. offset most of the decline in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥8.2 billion, a decrease of ¥0.5 billion from ¥8.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥12.0 billion, a decrease of ¥4.6 billion from ¥16.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major reasons other than the above-mentioned factors were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc., which discontinued housing business during the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded estimated costs of ¥5.3 billion to meet future requirements for product warranties and maintenance services. At the same time, it recorded a reversal of the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets on its retained loss. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, there were gains on sales of shares of Jupiter Telecommunications Co., Ltd. of ¥1.8 billion and those of two cable television providers of ¥2.8 billion. In addition, in conjunction with the merger of NextCom K.K. and Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., this segment recorded a ¥2.5 billion gain from the exchange of shares of these subsidiaries with minority interests. For the year ended March 31, 2007, this segment recorded a ¥4.5 billion gain on the sale of shares in Telepark Corp. (Japan). Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥130.0 billion, an increase of ¥1.6 billion from ¥128.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. In the lifestyle business fields, the brand apparel business showed disappointing results. On the other hand, in consumer service business fields, gross profit increased in the overseas real estate businesses. In IT related business fields, gross profit slightly increased mainly due to increase of mobile phone sales at Telepark Corp. and expansion of outsourcing business at J-SCube INC (Japan). Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥20.3 billion, a decrease of ¥4.7 billion from ¥25.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The improvement in gross profit was outweighed by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses primarily at IT related business operations. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥8.7 billion, an increase of ¥5.2 billion from ¥3.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. A television shopping service company, QVC JAPAN, INC. (Japan), continued solid performance and a mobile phone sales company, Brightstar Logistics Pty. (Australia), also contributed to this improvement. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥16.6 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥17.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Major reasons other than the above-mentioned factors were as follows: • Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc., which discontinued housing business during the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded estimated costs of ¥5.3 billion to meet future requirement for product warranties and maintenance services. At the same time, it recorded reversal of valuation allowance for deferred tax assets on its retained loss. • There was a ¥6.1 billion reduction in gain on sales of securities. For the year ended March 31, 2006, there were gains on sales of shares in Metro PCS, Inc. in the United States, KDDI CORPORATION in Japan and PT Excelcomindo Pratama, Tbk in Indonesia amounting to ¥3.5 billion, ¥3.3 billion and ¥2.0 billion, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2007, this segment recorded a ¥4.5 billion gain on the sale of shares in Telepark Corp. • For the year ended March 31, 2006, Mitsui received a ¥2.0 billion dividend from an investment company related to gains on the sales of interests in telecommunication companies in Africa. 117 Table of Contents Logistics & Financial Markets Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 55.1 ¥ 60.5 ¥ 51.4 ¥ (5.4 ) ¥ 9.1 Operating Income 20.9 24.2 17.6 (3.3 ) 6.6 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies (1.8 ) 2.0 3.9 (3.8 ) (1.9 ) Net Income 7.5 14.6 13.4 (7.1 ) 1.2 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit was ¥55.1 billion, a decrease of ¥5.4 billion from ¥60.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Gross profit decreased at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), reflecting lower trading margins due to a significant reduction of volatility in the market. In addition, divestiture of Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. (Japan) resulted in further deterioration of gross profit. Reflecting the decrease in gross profit, operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 decreased to ¥20.9 billion, a decrease of ¥3.3 billion from ¥24.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment reported a ¥1.8 billion equity in net losses of associated companies, a ¥3.8 billion deterioration from ¥2.0 billion in earnings for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decline was attributable to the loss on investment in ASAHI TEC Corporation (Japan) jointly held with the Machinery & Infrastructure Project Segment, and investment in the partnership NPF-Harmony (Japan). Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan) reported a decline caused from increased provision for doubtful receivables. Accordingly, net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥7.5 billion, a decrease of ¥7.1 billion from ¥14.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned negative factors, this segment recorded a ¥4.5 billion loss on the write-down on shares of Central Finance Co., Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2008 while it recorded a ¥4.4 billion increase in gains on sales of securities including Quintiles Transnational Corp. (United States) for ¥3.8 billion and BALtrans Holdings Limited (Hong Kong) for ¥3.2 billion. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 For the year ended March 31, 2007, gross profit was ¥60.5 billion, an increase of ¥9.1 billion from ¥51.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Mitsui, Mitsui Bussan Commodities Ltd. (United Kingdom) and Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. showed strong performance seizing opportunities under volatile market conditions. Furthermore there was a new contribution from a newly acquired domestic warehouse subsidiary for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥24.2 billion, an increase of ¥6.6 billion from ¥17.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The above-mentioned increase in gross profit was partly offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses mainly at logistics related operations. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥2.0 billion, a ¥1.9 billion decrease from ¥3.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The equity in earnings consists of miscellaneous small amounts. There was a loss on write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2007. As a result, net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥14.6 billion, an increase of only ¥1.2 billion from ¥13.4 billion. 118 Table of Contents Americas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 54.0 ¥ 64.7 ¥ 61.6 ¥ (10.7 ) ¥ 3.1 Operating Income 2.0 21.4 21.7 (19.4 ) (0.3 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 5.0 3.8 2.1 1.2 1.7 Net Income 4.3 16.9 12.7 (12.6 ) 4.2 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥54.0 billion, a decrease of ¥10.7 billion from ¥64.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, MBK Real Estate LLC. (United States), which engages in the development and sale of residential homes in the West Coast market, recorded both decreased sales and a ¥9.6 billion loss on the write-down of inventories based on the discount cash flow method applying the latest market values reflecting directly as a result of the deterioration in the residential market. After the write-down, the book value of inventories at MBK Real Estate LLC. was reduced to approximately ¥20.4 billion. • Westport Petroleum Inc. (United States) reported a ¥11.7 billion decrease in earnings due to a negative reversal effect from the high performance in oil product trading for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Steel products businesses at the former Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc. (United States) and other subsidiaries recorded a ¥3.8 billion decline due to a decreased margin from oil well tubular and other steel products. • Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. also recorded a ¥4.0 billion decline, reflecting an overall slowdown in the United States economy. • There were contributions from newly acquired subsidiaries, particularly Steel Technologies, Inc. (United States) of ¥6.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Newly acquired SunWize Technologies, Inc. (United States) also contributed to the increase. This segment recorded a ¥2.0 billion operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008, a deterioration of ¥19.4 billion from ¥21.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Steel products subsidiaries and Westport Petroleum Inc. recorded decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses, which partly offset deterioration in gross profit. The contributions to gross profit from newly acquired subsidiaries were mostly offset by their selling, general and administrative expenses. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.0 billion, a ¥1.2 billion increase from ¥3.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 led by United Harvest, LLC (United States) which enjoyed strong performance from the wheat export operation facility business. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥4.3 billion, a significant decrease of ¥12.6 billion from ¥16.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned, there were the following factors: • Interest expenses increased by ¥5.6 billion at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and its subsidiaries, resulting from increased interest bearing debt. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, there were ¥3.7 billion in gains on sales of warehouses and real estate by Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States) and a chemical subsidiary, Nst, Inc. (United States). 119 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥64.7 billion, an increase of ¥3.1 billion from ¥61.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. An oil products trading subsidiary, Westport Petroleum, Inc., recorded an increase of ¥4.3 billion while Portac, Inc. (United States), a lumber and lumber products producing subsidiary, recorded a ¥1.1 billion decrease. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥21.4 billion, a decrease of ¥0.3 billion from ¥21.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting increased selling, general and administrative expenses including higher trader bonuses at Westport Petroleum, Inc. and an increase in provision for doubtful receivables. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.8 billion, a ¥1.7 billion increase from ¥2.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥16.9 billion, an increase of ¥4.2 billion from ¥12.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. The major factors other than above are as below: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, there was a ¥3.7 billion gain on sales of warehouse and lands by Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. and a chemical subsidiary, Nst, Inc.. • Interest expenses increased by ¥4.8 billion at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and its subsidiaries resulting from a rise in U.S. dollar interest rates. • Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. had a 20% minority interest in Mitalco Inc. (United States) and shared the net losses of the subsidiary for the year ended March 31, 2006 with the Mineral& Metal Resources Segment which held 80% interest. Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 26.8 ¥ 25.4 ¥ 24.3 ¥ 1.4 ¥ 1.1 Operating Income 1.8 3.0 4.7 (1.2 ) (1.7 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies 0.3 0.3 (0.2 ) 0.0 0.5 Net Income 5.0 4.1 5.0 0.9 (0.9 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥26.8 billion, an increase of ¥1.4 billion from ¥25.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting solid performance of the energy, machinery and infrastructure project businesses in this segment. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥1.8 billion, a ¥1.2 billion decline from ¥3.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting increased selling, general and administrative expenses, mainly in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.0 billion, an increase of ¥0.9 billion from ¥4.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Increases in the segment’s minority interest in subsidiaries in the fields of automotive business and real estate contributed to this improvement. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥25.4 billion, an increase of ¥1.1 billion from ¥24.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting good performance of organic chemicals businesses. 120 Table of Contents Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥3.0 billion, a ¥1.7 billion decrease from ¥4.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting an increase mainly in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4.1 billion, a decrease of ¥0.9 billion from ¥5.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Asia Pacific Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 33.1 ¥ 30.7 ¥ 30.4 ¥ 2.4 ¥ 0.3 Operating Income 7.6 9.5 11.2 (1.9 ) (1.7 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 1.1 0.7 0.8 0.4 (0.1 ) Net Income 22.5 22.0 22.8 0.5 (0.8 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥33.1 billion, an increase of ¥2.4 billion from ¥30.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Steel products and chemicals exhibited strong performance. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥7.6 billion, a decrease of ¥1.9 billion from ¥9.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. This decrease reflects increases in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥22.5 billion, an increase of ¥0.5 billion from ¥22.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Income related to minority interests held by this segment in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. increased, while it decreased in Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) for the year ended March 31, 2008. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥30.7 billion, an increase of ¥0.3 billion from ¥30.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Organic chemicals transactions showed strong performance. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥9.5 billion, a decrease of ¥1.7 billion from ¥11.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, reflecting an increase mainly in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥22.0 billion, a decrease of ¥0.8 billion from ¥22.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. All Other Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2008–2007) Change(2007–2006) 2008 2007 2006 Gross Profit ¥ 5.5 ¥ 4.3 ¥ 7.1 ¥ 1.2 ¥ (2.8 ) Operating Loss (1.4 ) (4.4 ) (3.2 ) 3.0 (1.2 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.0 (0.2 ) Net Income (7.1 ) 5.8 11.8 (12.9 ) (6.0 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 The activities of this segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. 121 Table of Contents Gross profit in this segment for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.5 billion, an increase of ¥1.2 billion from ¥4.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥1.4 billion, an improvement of ¥3.0 billion from a ¥4.4 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2007 Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥7.1 billion, a deterioration of ¥12.9 billion from ¥5.8 billion of net income for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, we recorded a ¥13.9 billion impairment loss on real estate which we possess in Saito International Culture Park, located in the north area of Osaka Prefecture. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 The activities of this segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit in this segment for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4.3 billion, a decrease of ¥2.8 billion from ¥7.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥4.4 billion, a deterioration of ¥1.2 billion from a ¥3.2 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2006. This was primarily attributable to Mitsui Bussan Trade Services Ltd. (Japan), which offers business process outsourcing services to Mitsui. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥5.8 billion, a decrease of ¥6.0 billion from ¥11.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, primarily attributable to the sales of Mitsui’s corporate welfare facilities recorded in the year ended March 31, 2006. Inflation Management believes that inflation did not have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting policies and estimates are considered to be critical if they are important to our financial condition and results of operations and involve estimates that require management’s subjective or significant judgment about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The following items require significant management judgments and estimates. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The amount of impairment losses of long-lived assets, other than goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization, for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 and the balance of the long-lived assets, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, as of the end of March 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2008 2007 Long-lived assets ¥ 1,264.9 ¥ 1,304.5 Impairment loss 24.4 17.6 122 Table of Contents Impairment losses of long-lived assets have had a material impact on our net income for recent years. These losses were mainly due to the declining profitability resulting from deterioration of business environment and the reorganization of business structure and distribution bases owned by our subsidiaries. Our long-lived assets to be held and used or to be disposed of other than by sale are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. This review for impairment is performed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the aggregate amount of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows (“impairment analysis”). Cash flow projections used in our impairment analysis and fair value calculations are based on the business plan authorized by our management or, if this is not available, on the operating plan reflecting the most recent condition of the long-lived asset. In these plans, for example, we assume: • that the most recent selling prices of the real estate in the surrounding areas will continue for a reasonable period in the future; and • that the estimate of the sales prices of the products from facilities and equipment for the certain future period is based on the average price of the equivalent length of period in the past or on the analysts’ reports. As for the discount rate used in fair value calculations, when expected variations of cash flows are not considered in the cash flow estimate, a discount rate which includes the risk factor for the cash flow deviation is used. For example: • Assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value are incorporated in the discount rate when such information is available; or • When such information is not available, an expected internal rate of return (“IRR”) used for management purposes or a weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) of a company that owns the long-lived asset, whichever is higher, is also considered for the discounted cash flow calculation. Factors to be considered when estimating future cash flows and determining discount rates vary for each long-lived asset because of the difference in nature of the assets and in operating circumstances, such as location, owner, operator, profitability and other factors. Also see the relevant discussion on the impairment loss at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Foods & Retail Segment” in this item. Impairment of Marketable Investment Securities Impairments of equity investments for recent fiscal years have had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the carrying amounts of marketable and non-marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and the impairment loss for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Billions of Yen Year ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Carryingamount Impairmentloss Carryingamount Impairmentloss Carryingamount Impairmentloss Marketable equity securities ¥ 652.0 ¥ 28.1 ¥ 861.5 ¥ 3.1 ¥ 591.2 ¥ 1.8 Non-marketable equity securities 557.6 8.7 316.2 8.6 249.0 8.9 Total ¥ 1,209.6 ¥ 36.8 ¥ 1,177.7 ¥ 11.7 ¥ 840.2 ¥ 10.7 Management principally believes that a 50% or more decline in fair value of a security leads to the conclusion that the security has an other-than-temporary impairment. In addition, if the decline is less than 50%, various factors, such as the extent to which the cost exceeds the market value, the duration of the market decline, 123 Table of Contents our intention and ability to hold the investment until its market price recovery, decline by 30% or more with the materiality of declined value and the financial conditions of the investee, are considered in concluding if the decline is temporary or not. Management believes that the criteria for evaluating the significance of the decline in fair value are reasonable. The aggregate unrealized loss amount of the marketable securities that have been in continuous unrealized loss position for less than one year and had severity of decline of fair value below cost was ¥19.6 billion. But, considering the combination of length of time that fair values have been below cost, the extent of decline and the financial condition of the investees, we expect that their fair values will recover above their costs while we hold these investments. Tax Asset Valuation at subsidiaries and associated companies Establishing a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, pursuant to evaluation on its realizability, has had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the deferred tax assets and valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and valuation allowance as of March 31, 2008 and 2007. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2008 2007 Total deferred tax assets ¥ 199.7 ¥ 196.6 Valuation allowance (79.8 ) (80.3 ) Deferred tax assets—net ¥ 119.9 ¥ 116.3 For the purpose of evaluation of realizability of deferred tax assets at subsidiaries and associated companies, we classify them into five categories in the light of criteria including stability of operating results, analysis of future deductible temporary differences and taxable income, and status of tax loss carryforwards. According to the categories, the valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets is established for the amount that is not expected to be realized. • On the occurrence of temporary difference, we establish a deferred tax asset; and, at the same time we evaluate when those deferred tax assets will be realized in future. Particularly, when we establish a deferred tax asset in relation to a write-down loss of securities or impairment loss on long-lived assets and we have no specific schedule of sale or disposal of those assets, we establish a valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset because we view the deferred tax amount as not realizable. • We evaluate realizablitiy of deferred tax assets on the future deductible temporary difference and tax loss carryforwards at subsidiaries and associated companies. Among others, no deferred tax assets are determined to be realizable, if those subsidiaries and associated companies recorded a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards for each of the past three years and are expected to record a significant tax loss in the current year as well, considering all our past experiences in determining realizability of deferred tax assets. Mitsui determines the realizability of deferred tax assets at subsidiaries and associated companies based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, including all currently available information regarding tax deductibility on future years and ability to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the loss carryforward pursuant to the relevant tax laws and regulations. Management believes it is more likely than not that all of those deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will be realized. However, the amount of realizable net deferred tax assets may change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are changed or if statutory tax rates are changed. 124 Table of Contents Reserve estimates for oil and gas producing and mining activities Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the company’s interests in properties. In order to calculate reserves, estimates and assumptions are required about a range of geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange rates. Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period, and because additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change from period to period. Changes in reported reserves may affect the company’s financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: • Asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows. • Depreciation and amortisation charged in the income statement may change where such charges are determined by the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of assets change. • Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing or cost of these activities. Pension Benefit Costs Employee pension benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions, including discount, retirement, and mortality rates, which are based on current statistical data, as well as the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and other factors. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the difference between actual results and the assumptions is accumulated and amortized to expenses over future periods and, therefore, generally affects the recognized costs in future periods. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate; however, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our future pension costs and obligations. We determine the discount rates each year as of the measurement date, based on a review of interest rates associated with long-term Japanese government bonds or high-quality fixed-income corporate bonds. The discount rates determined on each measurement date are used to calculate the benefit obligation as of that date, and are also used to calculate the net periodic pension costs for the upcoming plan year. Mitsui determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets based on the weighted-average rate of return computed by using the expected long-term rate of return on each asset class, which is derived from an extensive study conducted by investment advisors and actuaries on a periodic basis, and the target allocations for each asset class. The study includes a review of anticipated future performance with market analysis of individual asset classes, and also gives appropriate consideration to actual historical returns achieved by the plans. The subsidiaries determine the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets mainly based on the expectations for future returns by investment advisors and actuaries. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions for Mitsui’s pension plans: Billions of Yen Impact of change inassumption on NPPCfor the year endingMarch 31, 2009 Impact of change inassumption on PBOas ofMarch 31, 2008 50 basis point decrease in discount rate ¥ 2.0 ¥ 15.5 50 basis point increase in discount rate (1.6 ) (14.5 ) 50 basis point decrease in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 1.2 — 50 basis point increase in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (1.2 ) — See Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES,” for further discussion about the estimates and assumptions on PBO and NPPC. 125 Table of Contents New Accounting Standards Accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments During the year ended March 31, 2008, the companies adopted SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140.” One of the amendments to SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140 is that SFAS No. 155 permits an entity to elect fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument in its entirety with changes in fair value recognized in earnings, in which the hybrid financial instrument contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. The effect of adoption of this statement on the companies’ financial position and results of operations was immaterial. Accounting for servicing of financial assets During the year ended March 31, 2008, the companies adopted SFAS No. 156, “Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140.” SFAS No. 156 requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable, and permits an entity to choose either the amortization method or the fair value measurement method for subsequent measurement of each class of separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. The effect of adoption of this statement on the companies’ financial position and results of operations was immaterial. Accounting for uncertainty in income taxes On April 1, 2007, the companies adopted FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of all tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The cumulative effect of adoption of this interpretation is disclosed in the Statements of Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity as a decrease of ¥5,113 million in the opening balance of unappropriated retained earnings. See also Note 20, “INCOME TAXES,” for the effect of adoption of this interpretation. Employers’ accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).” SFAS No. 158 requires the recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit pension plan as an asset or a liability in the statement of financial position and the recognition of changes in that funded status in comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. SFAS No. 158 also requires an entity to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of an entity’s year-end statement of financial position, with limited exceptions. During the year ended March 31, 2007, we adopted the recognition and related disclosure provisions of this statement. See Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES,” for the effect of adoption of these provisions. 126 Table of Contents The measurement date provisions are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The effect of adoption of these provisions on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Fair value measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements.” SFAS No.157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 was planned to be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. However, in February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. FAS 157-2, which delayed the effective date to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Fair value option In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities—including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.” SFAS No. 159 permits an entity to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value. An entity will report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP No. FIN 39-1, “Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39.” FSP No. FIN 39-1 amends FIN No. 39, “Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts—an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 10 and FASB Statement No. 105,” to permit a reporting entity to offset fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement. FSP No. FIN 39-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The effect of adoption of this staff position on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Scope of audit and accounting guide for investment companies In June 2007, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) issued the Statement of Position (“SOP”) 07-1, “Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies.” SOP 07-1 provides guidance for determining whether an entity is within the scope of the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies. For those entities that are investment companies under this statement, SOP 07-1 requires that the investment company accounting should be retained by a parent company in 127 Table of Contents consolidation or by an equity method investor. In addition, SOP 07-1 includes certain disclosure requirements for parent companies and equity method investors in investment companies that retain investment company accounting in the parent company’s consolidated financial statements or the financial statements of an equity method investor. SOP 07-1 was planned to be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2007, however, in February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. SOP 07-1-1, which delayed indefinitely the effective date of this statement. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Business combinations In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141R”). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase. SFAS No. 141R also requires disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of ARB No. 51.” SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.” SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. 128 Table of Contents B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures are defined in the SEC regulations as financial measures that either exclude or include amounts that are not excluded from or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio We refer to “Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“Net DER”) in this Liquidity and Capital Resources and elsewhere in this annual report. Net DER is comprised of “net interest bearing debt” divided by shareholders’ equity. “Net interest bearing debt” is defined as interest bearing debt, defined below, less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits. Our interest bearing debt primarily consists of long-term debt. As discussed in “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives,” to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations in financial markets, currently we hold a relatively high level of cash and cash equivalents reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. Under this policy, Net DER is a useful internal measure for our management to review the balance between: • our capacity to meet debt repayments; and • leverage to improve return on equity in our capital structure. This calculation does not recognize the fact that cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may not be completely available for debt repayments because some amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may be required for operational needs including contractual obligations or capital expenditures. “Net interest bearing debt” and “Net DER” are presented in the table below. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2008 2007 Short-term debt ¥ 464.6 ¥ 658.7 Long-term debt 3,221.0 3,259.4 Interest bearing debt 3,685.6 3,918.1 Less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits (911.6 ) (806.6 ) Net interest bearing debt ¥ 2,774.0 ¥ 3,111.5 Shareholders’ equity ¥ 2,183.7 ¥ 2,110.3 Net DER (times) 1.27 1.47 The most directly comparable GAAP measure is considered to be “Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“DER”). However, this ratio measures gross debt relative to equity, and does not measure changes in cash position. DER (times) 1.69 1.86 (defined as interest bearing debt divided by shareholders’ equity) Free Cash Flow We define “free cash flow” as the sum of net cash provided /(used) by operating activities and net cash provided/(used) in investing activities. Management believes that such indicator is useful to investors, to measure available net cash for investment in strategic opportunities and/or debt repayment, or the extent of reliance on borrowing to procure funds for strategic investments. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. 129 Table of Contents The following table shows a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 415.8 ¥ 239.3 ¥ 146.4 Net cash used in investing activities (104.8 ) (418.0 ) (347.3 ) Free cash flow ¥ 311.0 ¥ (178.7 ) ¥ (200.9 ) Finance and Liquidity Management Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives Our basic funding policy is to secure stable sources of funds to maintain adequate liquidity and financing to satisfy capital requirements for our operations and to maintain the strength of our balance sheet. In order to achieve our objectives, our principal strategy is to obtain long-term funds (those with maturities of around 10 years) from financial institutions, including insurance companies and banks, and through the issuance of corporate bonds. In addition, we utilize financing programs provided by government financing agencies for various projects to obtain long-term financing. Another strategy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations in financial markets. We hold cash and cash equivalents as liquidity sources, which consist mainly of highly-liquid and highly-rated short-term financial instruments and deposits. We aim to maintain the proper level of cash and cash equivalents, reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. In principle, wholly owned domestic subsidiaries do not individually raise their funds in financial markets or borrow from banks, but instead use a cash management service provided by Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. (Japan), our financing subsidiary. The same policy and practices have been extended to wholly owned overseas subsidiaries through our regional financing subsidiaries, which centralizes the fund raising function and promotes efficient use of funds. Approximately 83% of total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2008 was raised by Mitsui and the above-mentioned financing subsidiaries as in-house banking bases. Funding Sources We borrow funds based on our longstanding relations with financial institutions in Japan and overseas, borrow from government financing agencies, and also utilize project financing. In addition to these funding sources, Mitsui maintains a ¥200 billion debt shelf-registration and a ¥2,400 billion commercial paper program in Japan. Similarly, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V., Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd. and Mitsui & Co., Ltd. have arranged a joint Euro medium-term note (“MTN”) program of U.S.$5 billion. Mitsui guarantees notes issued by these overseas subsidiaries. For raising short-term funds, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. has a U.S.$1.5 billion U.S. domestic commercial paper program, and we have made arrangements for commercial paper programs in some other overseas markets. Unused lines of credit, for short-term financing outside of Japan, aggregated ¥598.5 billion at March 31, 2008. Certain overseas subsidiaries compensate banks for these facilities in the form of commitment fees, which were not material in each of the past three years. As of March 31, 2008, long-term debt accounted for approximately 87% of total debt, reflecting a decrease in short term debt from the prior year end, which we regard as a satisfactory level from the viewpoint of our financial policies. There were three bond issues that raised ¥35.0 billion in total (with maturity of 15–20 years) under the shelf-registration in Japan during the year ended March 31, 2008. Approximately 73% of the total of short-term and long-term debt as of March 31, 2008 was denominated in Japanese yen and the rest was primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We employ certain derivative financial 130 Table of Contents instruments, which include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts, to manage financial exposures resulting from our financing activities. Currency swap agreements and foreign exchange forward contracts are used to manage risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The principal financial derivative instruments that are employed to manage interest rate risk exposure are interest rate swap agreements. A large part of such agreements are used for fair value hedging of fixed rate interest bearing debt, including fixed interest rate borrowing, bonds and notes, converting into floating interest rates based on the three-month or six-month LIBOR. The interest rates on approximately 67% of Mitsui’s long-term debt, other than borrowings for certain projects, were floating after taking into account interest rate swap arrangements as of March 31, 2008. See Note 25, “DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES,” for further description of our risk management policies. Credit Ratings To facilitate access to funds from capital markets, Mitsui and certain of our overseas trading or financing subsidiaries have obtained ratings for their commercial paper (short-term debt) and long-term unsecured senior debt and/or long-term corporate credit from Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (“R&I”), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Standard and Poor’s Services (“S&P”). Medium-term note program rating has also been given for the above-mentioned MTN program by R&I and Moody’s. The ratings as of June 2008 were as follows: R&I Moody’s S&P Commercial Paper rating a-1+ P-1 A-1 Long-term corporate credit rating AA- – A+ Long-term unsecured senior debt rating AA- A2* – Medium-term note program rating AA- A2 – * Rating for long-term unsecured notes issued under the MTN program S&P in March 2008 raised our long-term credit rating to “A+” from “A”. S&P cited the following factors for the change in ratings: • Improving balance between our risk assets and risk buffer; and • Enhancement of our risk management system. In addition, R&I in May 2008 revised to positive from stable its outlook on the long-term corporate credit rating. Mitsui intends to maintain and improve its current credit ratings by enhancing its earnings and risk management. Credit ratings are an assessment by the rating agencies of the credit risks associated with us and are based on information provided by us and other sources that the rating agencies consider reliable. Lower ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. Credit ratings do not constitute a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to change or withdrawal by each of the rating agencies at any time. As rating agencies may have different criteria in evaluating the risk associated with a company, you should evaluate each rating independently of other ratings. Ratings may be changed without pre-notice at any time. Liquidity Management For the interest rate structure and the maturity profile of our outstanding debt, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT.” 131 Table of Contents (*1) Financial services from and to Mitsui and its subsidiaries referred to in “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives” and “Liquidity Management” above are provided by the All Other Segment. Acquisitions of and proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities as investing activities in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows are mostly conducted by the All Other Segment which includes the units in charge of corporate financing and liquidity management as discussed in “Funding Sources.” Cash and cash equivalents were ¥899.3 billion, ¥800.0 billion and ¥697.1 billion as of March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of March 31, 2008, net interest bearing debt (interest bearing debt less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits) was ¥2,774.0 billion, a decrease of ¥337.5 billion from ¥3,111.5 billion as of March 31, 2007. Net DER improved from 1.47 as of March 31, 2007 to 1.27 as of March 31, 2008. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities as of March 31, 2008 was 145.0%, up by 11.8 percentage points from 133.2% as of March 31, 2007. As of March 31, 2008, we had given guarantees for obligations of various third parties and associated companies. These guarantees are not expected to require substantial use of our capital resources. We have not had any material payment requirements resulting from these guarantees for the past three years. For details on guarantees issued by us, see Note 22, “CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” With the exception of project financing and non-recourse financing, it is our policy not to conclude agreements for important financial transactions with financial institutions that contain additional debt restriction clauses that could cause acceleration of our obligations, including debt incurrence restrictions, negative pledges, restrictions on dividend payments and various financial ratio limits, and there are no material financial covenants in the agreements undertaken. Assuming that our subsidiaries have sufficient distributable net assets or retained earnings as provided under the local laws of the relevant jurisdictions, there are no material contractual or legal restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. There are no material economic restrictions on payments of dividends, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries other than general withholding or other taxes calculated at the rates determined by the local tax laws of the relevant jurisdictions. We held ¥899.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2008 in comparison to ¥138.4 billion of current maturities of outstanding debt including commercial paper, MTNs and bonds. Of the cash and cash equivalents, approximately 55% was held by Mitsui and approximately 97% was denominated in Japanese yen. We believe that we maintain sufficient liquidity to satisfy our working capital and debt-service requirements for the foreseeable future through existing cash and cash equivalents and time deposits, the sales of certain assets in parallel with outside borrowings from financial institutions, as well as, the issuance of bonds and notes. We plan to contribute ¥4.8 billion to our defined-benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2009. This cash requirement will be managed under our funding policy mentioned above. Investment Plans and Financial Policies of the Medium-Term Management Outlook For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui introduced a new monitoring system linked closely to consolidated cash flow statements (namely, the combined total of investing cash flows of operating segments other than the All Other Segment(*1) and Adjustments and Eliminations) to incorporate not only the large-scale investments but also small- to middle-sized investments, loans and leases. With this new monitoring method, in April 2007, we set up an outlook for our investments and loans to be ¥800 billion for the single year ended March 31, 2008, and consequently during this fiscal year, we executed new 132 Table of Contents investments and loans of approximately ¥710 billion. Concurrently, we focused on divestitures of outstanding investments and fixed assets and collected approximately ¥610 billion, including large scale divestitures of our 50% stake in Sakhalin II and entire stake in Sesa Goa. As a result, investing cash flow for the year ended March 31, 2008 was net outflows of ¥104.8 billion(*2) and free cash flow during the fiscal year was net inflows of ¥311.0 billion, a positive free cash flow after our long lasting proactive investment activities during the 5 years. As of the issuing date of this annual report, we forecast total investing cash outflows for the year ending March 31, 2009 to be approximately ¥700 billion, which includes investments in mineral resources and energy businesses of ¥350 billion mainly in response to demand for expansion of existing projects. And in non mineral resources and energy business fields, we also forecast a total of ¥350 billion, aiming at enhancement of our business bases under Medium-Term Management Outlook. At the same time, we forecast a total of ¥270 billion in divestitures during the period. Our Medium-term Management Outlook originally positioned turnaround to positive free cash flow for the year ending March 31, 2009 as a key milestone event. Except for the two large scale divestitures of Sesa Goa and Sakhalin II, we evaluated the free cash flow for the year ended March 31, 2008 as virtually break-even. For the year ending March 31, 2009, we expect the free cash flow as break-even or marginal net inflows. Compared to the assumptions in the Medium-term Management Outlook, there have been certain delays in operations at the major projects such as Sakhalin II, the Enfield oil field and the Dawson coal mine, which can be regarded as major reasons for a delay in achieving a stable positive free cash flow trend. In our business plan covering the year ending March 31, 2009, we intend to maintain the current dividend pay-out ratio of 20% on consolidated net income, after company wide examination of the above-mentioned investment plan through establishing the business plan. We forecast that total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2009 will remain at the same level as March 31, 2008. We also forecast a slightly lower Net DER than 1.27 times as of March 31, 2008 We will procure funds for refinance by direct financing from capital markets and fund raising—including project finance—from the private sector and government financing agencies, especially paying attention to the trend of Japanese yen interest rate. Many of the projects in the investment plan involve bidding. The outcome of bidding will have an effect on our actual cash flows and financial condition for the year ending March 31, 2009. Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Total assets as of March 31, 2008 were ¥9,690.9 billion, a decrease of ¥122.4 billion from ¥9,813.3 billion, as of March 31, 2007. Current assets as of March 31, 2008 were ¥5,211.1 billion, an increase of ¥137.3 billion from ¥5,073.8 billion as of March 31, 2007, mainly attributable to increases in cash and cash equivalents in Mitsui, and derivative assets reflecting higher commodity prices. Total current liabilities as of March 31, 2008 were ¥3,594.6 billion, a decrease of ¥215.6 billion from ¥3,810.2 billion as of March 31, 2007 led by decreases by the sum of ¥289.4 billion in short term debt and in current maturities of long-term debt at both overseas financial subsidiaries and Mitsui, which was offset by increases in derivative liabilities related to the above-mentioned derivative assets and accrued expenses for income tax of Mitsui. As a result, working capital, or current assets minus current liabilities, as of March 31, 2008 was ¥1,616.5 billion, resulting in an increase of ¥352.9 billion from ¥1,263.6 billion as of March 31, 2007. (*2) See “Cash Flows from Investing Activities” of “Cash Flows” for the breakdown by operating segment. 133 Table of Contents The sum of “investments and non-current receivables”, “property and equipment—at cost”, “intangible assets, less accumulated amortization”, “deferred tax assets-non-current” and “other assets” as of March 31, 2008 totaled ¥4,479.8 billion, a ¥259.7 billion decrease from ¥4,739.5 billion as of March 31, 2007, mainly due to the following factors: • Total investments and non-current receivables as of March 31, 2008 were ¥3,237.3 billion, a ¥254.7 billion decrease from ¥3,492.0 billion as of March 31, 2007. Within this category, investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2008 were ¥1,333.0 billion, a ¥254.6 billion decrease from ¥1,587.6 billion as of March 31, 2007. As of March 31, 2007, investment for the Sakhalin II project amounting to ¥417.2 billion was recorded in this account. As a result of a 50% divestiture in April 2007, the remaining balance was transferred to the account “other investments”. Besides this large scale divestiture, major expenditures were: — investment in Sims Group Limited, an Australian metal recycler, for ¥70.7 billion and investment in Erdos Electrical Power & Metallurgical Co., Ltd., a conglomerate in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China engaged in power generation, coal mining and ferrous alloy production, for ¥16.4 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; and — additional investment to combine United Kingdom power generating assets with International Power plc for ¥24.5 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. In addition to the above-mentioned increases, there were increases which do not involve cash outflows such as: — increases in equity in earnings (before tax effect) of ¥110.2 billion (net of ¥99.8 billion dividends received from associated companies); and — a ¥85.8 billion net deterioration in foreign exchange translation cumulative adjustments. 134 Table of Contents The following table shows the details of investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2008 and 2007 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, Change 2008 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 25.6 ¥ 22.0 ¥ 3.6 Mineral & Metal Resources 388.8 264.4 124.4 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 375.0 383.3 (8.3 ) Chemical 42.9 46.2 (3.3 ) Energy 154.0 558.7 (404.7 ) Foods & Retail 63.1 57.0 6.1 Consumer Service & IT 123.0 112.7 10.3 Logistics & Financial Markets 29.1 33.9 (4.8 ) Americas 36.6 39.0 (2.4 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa 25.5 14.9 10.6 Asia Pacific 53.5 44.1 9.4 Total 1.317.1 1,576.2 (259.1 ) All Other 3.2 10.5 (7.3 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 12.7 0.9 11.8 Consolidated Total ¥ 1,333.0 ¥ 1,587.6 ¥ (254.6 ) • Other investments were ¥1,281.5 billion, a ¥42.6 billion increase from ¥1,238.9 billion as of March 31, 2007. Major factors were as follows: — There were acquisitions of preferred stock in Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. for ¥20.0 billion, shares in Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. for ¥15.7 billion (net of loss on write-down) and shares and bonds of Central Finance Co., Ltd. for ¥14.9 billion (net of loss on write-down). — As discussed in investments in and advances to associated companies above, investment in the Sakhalin II project for ¥218.5 billion was recorded in this account, as a result of a 50% divestiture of our stake in April 2007 and the investments thereafter in response to expenditures for development work. 135 Table of Contents — Net total of unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities decreased by ¥201.4 billion, with the fall of prices of shares of companies such as Toho Titanium Co., Ltd., Nippon Steel Corporation, Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. and Tokyo Broadcasting System, Incorporated, reflecting a decline in the stock market towards March 31, 2008. • Property leased to others—at cost as of March 31, 2008 was ¥184.4 billion, a decrease of ¥74.8 billion from ¥259.2 billion as of March 31, 2007, mainly due to sales of commercial real estate in Europe and rolling stock for lease. • Property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2008 was ¥1,016.3 billion, an increase of ¥28.0 billion from ¥988.3 billion as of March 31, 2007. Major components were as follows: — Iron ore mining projects in Australia for ¥14.8 billion, including negative effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥4.3 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; — Coal mining projects in Australia for ¥17.3 billion, including negative effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥6.6 billion in the Energy Segment; — Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand, oil and gas projects in Oman, and oil and gas projects offshore in the Gulf of Mexico as well as oil and gas projects by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., resulting in a marginal increase by ¥0.5 billion, including negative effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥33.4 billion due to Japanese Yen appreciation and amortization of mineral rights in the Energy Segment; and — Property and equipment of Steel Technologies Inc. for ¥26.2 billion as a result of the acquisition of the company during the period ended March 31, 2008 in the Americas Segment. On the other hand, the property and equipment of Sesa Goa Limited for ¥13.2 billion decreased as a result of the divestiture in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. The following table shows the details of property leased to others—at cost and property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2008 and 2007 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2008 2007 Change Iron & Steel Products ¥ 23.3 ¥ 22.9 ¥ 0.4 Mineral & Metal Resources 96.8 95.3 1.5 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 125.3 142.2 (16.9 ) Chemical 59.1 71.9 (12.8 ) Energy 460.2 471.2 (11.0 ) Foods & Retail 63.8 62.5 1.3 Consumer Service & IT 69.3 103.2 (33.9 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 57.6 60.7 (3.1 ) Americas 82.4 40.4 42.0 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 10.7 11.7 (1.0 ) Asia Pacific 5.6 6.4 (0.8 ) Total 1,054.1 1,088.4 (34.3 ) All Other 10.2 25.8 (15.6 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 136.5 133.3 3.2 Consolidated Total ¥ 1,200.8 ¥ 1,247.5 ¥ (46.7 ) 136 Table of Contents Long-term debt, less current maturities as of March 31, 2008 was ¥2,944.4 billion, an increase of ¥56.9 billion from ¥2,887.5 billion as of March 31, 2007 mainly due to an increase in borrowings from financial institutions associated with funding for various investments at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsui & Co. (Australia), Ltd., and Mitsui. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2008 was ¥2,183.7 billion, an increase of ¥73.4 billion from ¥2,110.3 billion as of March 31, 2007, primarily due to the increase in retained earnings by ¥332.9 billion, conversion of bonds by ¥28.7 billion, net deterioration in foreign currency translation adjustments by ¥125.8 billion (which include translation adjustments regarding the U.S. Dollar by ¥102.6 billion and Australian Dollar by ¥19.3 billion, respectively); and a net decline in total of unrealized holding gains by ¥118.5 billion. Cash Flows Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 415.8 ¥ 239.3 ¥ 146.4 Net cash used in investing activities (104.8 ) (418.0 ) (347.3 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (185.1 ) 272.3 92.3 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (26.7 ) 9.4 13.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ¥ 99.2 ¥ 103.0 ¥ (94.7 ) Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2008 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥415.8 billion, an increase of ¥176.5 billion from ¥239.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major components were: • operating income which increased steadily in general mainly at the Energy Segment, the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and other segments; • dividends received totaling ¥149.4 billion from associated companies as well as investees other than associated companies, among others from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies; and 137 Table of Contents • payments of ¥184.3 billion for corporate income taxes. Compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, net cash for the year ended March 31, 2008 provided by operating activities increased by ¥176.5 billion. In addition to the above-mentioned components, the increase was also attributable to positive impact from the collection of trade receivables as well as changes in other operating assets and liabilities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities The following table shows net cash provided by (used in) investing activities for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 by operating segment. Billions of Yen Year EndedMarch 31, 2008 Year EndedMarch 31, 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ (3.2 ) ¥ (10.3 ) Mineral & Metal Resources (3.5 ) 5.1 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects (87.3 ) (166.8 ) Chemical (17.0 ) (21.2 ) Energy 118.3 (211.6 ) Foods & Retail (14.7 ) 5.8 Consumer Service & IT 23.7 (58.7 ) Logistics & Financial Markets (0.7 ) 0.4 Americas (99.5 ) (26.6 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa (8.3 ) (4.6 ) Asia Pacific(*) (73.7 ) (15.7 ) Total (165.9 ) (504.2 ) All Other and Adjustments and Eliminations(*) 61.1 86.2 Consolidated Total ¥ (104.8 ) ¥ (418.0 ) (*) The figures of operating segments from Iron & Steel Products to Asia Pacific include the inter-segment transactions, for example, increases in long-term loan receivables disbursed to other operating segments. At the same time, the amounts of such inter-segment transactions are eliminated in Eliminations. Among others, for the year ended March 31, 2008, the Asia Pacific Segment recorded net increases in loans to 2 subsidiaries owned by Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Energy Segment, amounting to ¥58.8 billion. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was a net outflow of ¥104.8 billion, a ¥313.2 billion decrease from ¥418.0 billion in net outflows for the year ended March 31, 2007. • A total of ¥206.9 billion was paid out for investments in and advances to associated companies, and proceeds of ¥309.6 billion were collected from sales of investments in and advances to associated companies. As a result, net cash inflows were ¥102.7 billion. The principal factor of the inflows was a ¥226.4 billion (equivalent to the proceeds of US$1,862.5 million) proceed from the 50% divestiture of our stake in Sakhalin II project. On the other hand, major components of expenditures were: — investments in Sims Group Limited, an Australian metal recycler, for ¥70.6 billion and Erdos Electrical Power & Metallurgical Co., Ltd., a conglomerate in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China engaged in power generation, coal mining and ferrous alloy production, for ¥16.4 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; — additional investment to combine United Kingdom power generating assets with International Power plc for ¥22.2 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and 138 Table of Contents — additional investment in the Tangguh LNG project for ¥7.8 billion in the Energy Segment. • A total of ¥282.1 billion was paid out for property leased to others and property and equipment; and proceeds of ¥115.8 billion were provided form sales of property leased to others and property and equipment. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥166.2 billion. Major purchases of equipment included: — acquisition of property and equipment for the oil and gas projects of the Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand, oil and gas projects in Oman, and oil and gas projects offshore in the Gulf of Mexico as well as oil and gas projects by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. in total for ¥80.3 billion; and for the coal mining projects in Australia for ¥35.3 billion in the Energy Segment; and — acquisition of property and equipment for the iron ore mining projects in Australia for ¥26.3 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. Major divestitures of assets included: — sales of whole oil and gas producing interests at Wandoo Petroleum Pty Limited (Australia) amounting to ¥35.0 billion in the Energy Segment; and — net proceeds from the sales of the rolling stock for lease amounted to ¥11.0 billion (net of additions of those assets) at rolling stock leasing subsidiaries in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. • A total of ¥194.2 billion was paid out for acquisitions of available-for-sale and other investments, while proceeds of ¥107.4 billion were received from sales of those securities. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥86.8 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2008, cash outflows and inflows in connection with debt securities for the purpose of corporate fund management were marginal compared to the past fiscal years. Major transactions for expenditure included: — additional investment in Sakhalin Energy Investment for ¥45.7 billion in the Energy Segment; — purchases of shares in Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. for ¥24.3 billion (except for loss on write-down) and preferred stock in Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. for ¥20.0 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment — shares and bonds of Central Finance Co., Ltd. for ¥19.4 billion (except for loss on write-down) in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. On the other hand, we obtained cash through the sales of shares in Empreendimentos Brasileiros de Mineração S.A. for ¥13.8 billion and in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. for ¥11.2 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. • A total of ¥52.2 billion was used for acquisitions of subsidiaries (net of cash held by the acquired subsidiary), including the acquisition of Steel Technologies Inc. for ¥45.0 billion in the Americas Segment. On the other hand, a total of ¥106.3 billion was provided from sales of subsidiaries (net of cash held by the divested subsidiary), including the sale of Sesa Goa for ¥92.8 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. 139 Table of Contents Compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 decreased significantly by ¥313.2 billion. Major reasons for the improvement were proceeds from the divestitures of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. and Sesa Goa for the year ended March 31, 2008. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥185.1 billion. Major factors were as below: • Net cash outflows from short-term debt amounted to ¥148.8 billion mainly due to increased repayment of short-term debt at overseas financial subsidiaries. Proceeds from long-term debt were ¥37.4 billion (net of repayments of long-term debt). • Dividends paid by Mitsui totaled ¥72.1 billion. Compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, net cash raised by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 decreased by ¥457.4 billion, reflecting decreases in net cash from both short term and long term debt from the year ended March 31, 2007. See also “Funding Sources” above, for details of our fund procurement for the year ended March 31, 2008. Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2007 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥239.3 billion. Major components were: • Operating income which increased steadily in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, the Energy Segment, the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and other segments; • Dividends received totaling ¥160.1 billion from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies, as well as our investments in third parties; and • Payments of ¥99.1 billion for corporate income taxes. In addition, during the year ended March 31, 2007, the changes in operating assets and liabilities, especially a significant increase in trade receivables gave a negative impact of ¥133.3 billion on cash flows from operating activities in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. Refer to the relevant discussion in “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity.” 140 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities increased by ¥92.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 from the year ended March 31, 2006. The reasons for this increase were operating income which increased mainly in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Energy Segment as well as increased dividend income. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥418.0 billion. The principal details are as follows: • A total of ¥222.4 billion was paid out for investments in and advances to associated companies, and proceeds of ¥34.3 billion were collected from sales of investments in and collection of advances to associated companies. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥188.1 billion. The major factors are as below: — Investment in preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) for ¥107.8 billion in the Energy Segment; and — Expenditure for Greenfield Energy Center LP (Canada) for ¥11.4 billion, acquisition of shares in Asahi Tec Corporation (Japan) for ¥11.8 billion, acquisition of gas distribution operations in Brazil for ¥10.3 billion and acquisition of shares in Toyo Engineering Corporation (Japan) for ¥10.3 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. As a major sale of investment, Mitsui obtained ¥16.5 billion through the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan). • A total of ¥327.4 billion was paid for additions to property leased to others and property and equipment, and proceeds of ¥52.8 billion was provided from sales of property leased to others and property and equipment. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥274.6 billion. The major factors are as below: — Payment of ¥53.8 billion for the acquisition of the oil and gas project in the offshore Gulf of Mexico; and payment in total of ¥36.8 billion for the acquisition of property and equipment for the oil and gas projects of the Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand and oil and gas project in Oman in the Energy Segment; — Payment of ¥57.8 billion for the acquisition of property and equipment for the iron ore and coal mining projects in Australia in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; and — Payment in total of ¥71.0 billion for additions to and proceeds of ¥18.7 billion in total from sales of rolling stock for lease in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. • A total of ¥236.8 billion was used for the acquisition of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities and other investments, and proceeds of ¥227.6 billion were received from sales of securities. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥9.2 billion. Cash outflows and inflows in connection with debt securities include payment of ¥84.1 billion for acquisition and proceeds of ¥125.0 billion from sales and redemption for the purpose of corporate fund management. Other major factors were: — acquisition of shares of Recruit Co., Ltd. for ¥27.0 billion in the Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication Segment; and — investment in the partnership which owns Skylark Co., Ltd. for ¥10.0 billion in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. • A total of ¥11.5 billion, net of cash acquired, was used for acquisitions of subsidiaries. Major factors include acquisitions of a rolling stock leasing company, Siemens Dispolok GmbH (Germany), and a gas distribution company, Gas Participacoes Ltda. (Brazil), in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, and a salt field development company, Salt Asia Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia), in the Chemical Segment. On the other hand, there was a ¥37.3 billion positive effect, net of cash used in the acquisition, resulting from the acquisition of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. 141 Table of Contents Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 increased by ¥70.7 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. Major factors in investing cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2006 included an investment of ¥83.5 billion in the preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), ¥50.0 billion in shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. and ¥35.8 billion in iron ore and coal mining projects in Australia. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥272.3 billion. Major factors were as below: • Net cash inflows from short-term debt amounted to ¥70.8 billion due to increase of short-term debt at overseas financial subsidiaries. Net of proceeds from and repayments of long-term debt were ¥239.1 billion. Mitsui increased long-term corporate bonds and borrowings from financial institutions in response to the above-mentioned investing activities. • Dividend paid by Mitsui totaled ¥53.4 billion. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2007 increased by ¥180.0 billion from the year ended March 31, 2006. We procured higher levels of short-term and long-term funds for the year ended March 31, 2007, whereas Mitsui raised ¥203.8 billion (net of stock issuance costs before taxes) from the public offering of 130 million shares in February 2006 and the third party allotment of 9.75 million shares in March 2006 for the year ended March 31, 2006. Refer to Funding Sources above, for details of our fund procurement for the year ended March 31, 2007. C. Research & Development For the year ended March 31, 2008, research and development (“R&D”) expenses for the various R&D activities underway totaled ¥4.0 billion, which included ¥2.2 billion in the Chemical Segment related to nanotechnology, biotechnology and life science and ¥1.0 billion in the Foods & Retail Segment. Management recognizes that individual R&D activity will not have a significant impact on our future operating results. For the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, R&D expenses were ¥3.9 billion and ¥5.1 billion, respectively, including ¥2.3 billion and ¥3.4 billion expenditure by the Chemical Segment, respectively. D. Trend Information See relevant discussion elsewhere in this item. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We use off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business to further our trading, fund-raising and other activities. Categories of off-balance sheet arrangements are as follows: Guarantees The following tables summarize our guarantees as of March 31, 2008 and 2007. The maximum potential amount of future payments represents the amount without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provision or from collateral held or pledged that we could be obliged to pay if there were defaults by guaranteed parties or there were changes in an underlying which would cause triggering events 142 Table of Contents under market value guarantees and indemnification contracts. Such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated losses on these guarantees and indemnifications, and they greatly exceed anticipated losses. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset our payments under guarantees. The carrying amounts of liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect our best estimate of future payments we may incur as part of fulfilling our guarantee obligations. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2008: Maximumpotential amount offuture payments Recourseprovisions/collateral Carryingamount ofliabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 216 ¥ 20 ¥ 3 Performance Guarantees 20 5 1 Market Value Guarantees 67 43 — Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2007: Maximumpotential amount offuture payments Recourseprovisions/collateral Carryingamount ofliabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 213 ¥ 26 ¥ 5 Performance Guarantees 25 5 0 Market Value Guarantees 58 42 — In the furtherance of our trading activities, it is a customary practice for us to guarantee, severally or jointly with others, indebtedness of certain of our customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. As lessees in operating lease contracts, certain subsidiaries have issued residual value guarantees of leased ocean transport vessels, and on the date of expiration of operating lease contracts, such subsidiaries will either purchase the leased assets at a fixed price or will be responsible for making up any shortfall between the actual sales price and the guaranteed value. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (revised December 2003)-an Interpretation of ARB No. 51” on December 31, 2003, we consolidated ¥12.2 billion and ¥20.3 billion of total assets related to certain ocean transport vessels entities at March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. This information is provided in Note 23, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Sales of Trade Receivables At March 31, 2008 and 2007, the outstanding amounts of off-balance sheet arrangements in which certain trade receivables are sold to third parties were immaterial. Variable Interest Entities We are involved with and have significant variable interests in a number of variable interest entities (“VIEs”) that are not consolidated because we are not the primary beneficiary, but in which we have significant variable interests. These VIEs mainly engage in leasing and financing activities. Further information is provided in Note 23, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Commitments on Deferred Payments We had no financing commitments at March 31, 2008. We had financing commitments totaling ¥2.3 billion at March 31, 2007, principally for financing, on a deferred-payment basis, the cost of ocean transport vessels and equipment to be purchased by our customers. 143 Table of Contents F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations The following table provides our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2008 and payment due by period of these contractual obligations: Billions of Yen Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Balance as ofMarch 31, 2008 March2009 March2011 March2013 AfterMarch 2013 Long-Term Debt(1) ¥ 3,171 ¥ 268 ¥ 672 ¥ 624 ¥ 1,607 Capital Lease Obligations(2) 36 7 14 7 8 Operating Leases(3) 153 32 48 30 43 Purchase Obligations(4) 5,262 1,095 1,661 947 1,559 Total ¥ 8,622 ¥ 1,402 ¥ 2,395 ¥ 1,608 ¥ 3,217 (1) The amounts of “Long-Term Debt” include bank borrowings, bonds and long-term trade payables, excluding the effect of the SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment and capital lease obligations (present value of net minimum lease payments). (2) “Capital Lease Obligations” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum lease payments. (3) “Operating Leases” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum rentals. Minimum rental payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of ¥48.1 billion due in the future under noncancelable subleases. (4) “Purchase Obligations” represents the schedule of payments for long-term purchase obligations, net of advance payments of ¥141 billion made to suppliers as of March 31, 2008 For additional information regarding long-term debt, capital lease obligations and operating leases, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT,” and Note 8, “LEASES,” respectively. In addition to the above, we plan to contribute ¥4.8 billion to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2009. The table above excludes estimated interest payments on debt and estimated payments under interest swap. Total cash paid for interest during the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥110.0 billion. The table above also excludes unrecognized tax benefits of ¥8.3 billion. Unrecognized tax benefits classified as current liabilities are merely ¥0.3 billion. The timing of future cash outflows associated with unrecognized tax benefits classified as non current liabilities is highly uncertain. We conclude various long-term purchase contracts of commodities, principally ocean transport vessels, oil products, chemical materials, metals and machinery and equipment, either at fixed prices or at basic purchase prices adjustable to the market. In general, our customers, primarily large Japanese industrial companies and shipping firms, are also parties to the contracts or by separate agreements and are committed to purchase the items from us. Therefore, management does not recognize that these long-term purchase contracts could have seriously adverse effects on our future liquidity. As of March 31, 2008, outstanding balances of purchase contracts which have unconditional payment conditions are insignificant. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. A. Directors and Senior Management. We are managed by a Board of Directors and Executive Officers. As of June 24, 2008, we have thirteen Directors and forty-two Executive Officers including eight who are also Directors. In accordance with Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation, each Director was elected for a term of one year. Each Executive Officer has been appointed by the Board of Directors. 144 Table of Contents The Board of Directors is our decision-making body. The Board of Directors determines our basic guidelines and policies by establishing our corporate strategy, reviewing our business plans, and supervising and monitoring the activities of our Executive Officers. The Executive Officers are responsible for the execution of our corporate activities. They must follow and enforce the general guidelines and policies established by the Board of Directors and Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation. As of June 24, 2008, Mitsui’s Executive Officers consisted of one President, six Executive Vice Presidents, one Senior Executive Managing Officer, thirteen Executive Managing Officers and twenty-one Managing Officers. The execution of the Directors’ functions (including their functions to supervise and monitor the activities of the Executive Officers) is audited by Corporate Auditors. Each Corporate Auditor is elected by shareholders of Mitsui at a general meeting of shareholders. As of June 24, 2008, we have seven Corporate Auditors. In performing their auditing activities, they act independently of each other while they are constituted, and act through the Board of Corporate Auditors, as the Corporate Law of Japan requires. Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers Our Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers as of June 24, 2008 were: Directors Name Position Nobuo Ohashi Chairman and Director Shoei Utsuda Representative Director Toshihiro Soejima Representative Director Motokazu Yoshida Representative Director Ken Abe Representative Director Yoshiyuki Izawa Representative Director Junichi Matsumoto Representative Director Masami Iijima Representative Director Seiichi Tanaka Representative Director Akishige Okada(1) Director Nobuko Matsubara(1) Director Ikujiro Nonaka(1) Director Hiroshi Hirabayashi(1) Director (1) Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi are external directors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” Corporate Auditors Name Position Tasuku Kondo(2) Corporate Auditor Satoru Miura(2) Corporate Auditor Motonori Murakami(2) Corporate Auditor Ko Matsukata(3) Corporate Auditor Hideharu Kadowaki(3) Corporate Auditor Naoto Nakamura(3) Corporate Auditor Kunihiro Matsuo(3) Corporate Auditor (2) Mr. Tasuku Kondo, Mr. Satoru Miura and Mr. Motonori Murakami are full-time Corporate Auditors. (3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki, Mr. Naoto Nakamura and Mr. Kunihiro Matsuo are external Corporate Auditors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” 145 Table of Contents Executive Officers Name Title and Principal Position Shoei Utsuda President and Chief Executive Officer; Chairman of Internal Controls Committee Yasunori Yokote Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer of Americas Business Unit Toshihiro Soejima Executive Vice President; Motor Vehicles Business Unit; Marine & Aerospace Business Unit; First Consumer Service Business Unit; Second Consumer Service Business Unit; IT Business Unit Motokazu Yoshida Executive Vice President; Chief Information Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Information Strategic Planning Division, Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Corporate Communication Division, CSR Promotion Division); New Business Promotion; Environmental Matters; Chairman of CSR Promotion Committee Ken Abe Executive Vice President; Iron & Steel Products Business Unit; Infrastructure Projects Business Unit; Financial Markets Business Unit; Transportation Logistics Business Unit; Director of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. Yoshiyuki Izawa Executive Vice President; First Chemicals Business Unit; Second Chemicals Business Unit; Foods & Retail Business Unit; Domestic Offices and Branches; Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC; Chairman of Portfolio Management Committee Junichi Matsumoto Executive Vice President; Chief Financial Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Investor Relations Division, Investment Administration Division, First Business Process Control Division, Second Business Process Control Division, Third Business Process Control Division, Accounting Division, Finance Division, Credit Risk Management Division, Market Risk Management Division, Financial Planning Division); Chairman of Compliance Committee; Chairman of Disclosure Committee Toshimasa Furukawa Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Asia Pacific Business Unit Masami Iijima Executive Managing Officer; Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit; Energy Business Unit I; Energy Business Unit II Seiichi Tanaka Executive Managing Officer; Chief Privacy Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Secretariat, Corporate Auditor Division, Human Resources & General Affairs Division, Legal Division, Logistics Management Division); Business Continuity Plan Management; Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. Shinjiro Ogawa Executive Managing Officer; Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Jitsuro Terashima Executive Managing Officer; President & CEO of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Koji Nakamura Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Osaka Office Kenichi Yamamoto Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of First Consumer Service Business Unit Toshio Awata Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Nagoya Office Kiyotaka Watanabe Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Kyushu Office Masaaki Fujita Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Foods & Retail Business Unit 146 Table of Contents Name Title and Principal Position Junichi Mizonoue Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Second Chemicals Business Unit Takao Omae Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Norinao Iio Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit Hideyo Hayakawa Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Internal Auditing Division Masaaki Murakami Managing Officer; President of Mitsui & Co. Korea Ltd. Osamu Koyama Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer of Americas Business Unit Terukazu Okahashi Managing Officer; Deputy General Manager of Osaka Office Osamu Takahashi Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of IT Business Unit Shigeru Hanagata Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles Business Unit Masayoshi Komai Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Marine & Aerospace Business Unit Katsumi Ogawa Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Financial Markets Business Unit Akio Yamamoto Managing Officer; President of Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Yoshinori Setoyama Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of First Chemicals Business Unit Noriaki Sakamoto Managing Officer; President of Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Masahiko Okamura Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Second Consumer Service Business Unit Fuminobu Kawashima Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit I Masaaki Iida Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit Joji Okada Managing Officer; General Manager of Accounting Division Takashi Fukunaga Managing Officer; Deputy Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit Takashi Yamauchi Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Shuji Nakura Managing Officer; General Manager of Investment Administration Division Mitsuhiko Kawai Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit II Daisuke Saiga Managing Officer; General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division Masayuki Kinoshita Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Atsushi Ooi Managing Officer; Chairman & Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. 147 Table of Contents The date of birth, the current position and the prior positions of our Directors and Corporate Auditors is provided below. Directors Name Nobuo Ohashi Date of Birth September 13, 1938 Current Position Chairman and Director (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 1994 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Seoul Branch) • 1997 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit • 1999 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2000 Representative Director, Executive Vice President • 2002/4 Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Group President of Consumer Products & Services Group • 2002/10 Representative Director, Chairman and Executive Director Name Shoei Utsuda Date of Birth February 12, 1943 Current Position Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer (since October 1, 2002) Prior Positions •1997 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Machinery, Information Industries Administrative Division) •2000 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division •2002/4 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Strategic Officer (Responsible for Administrative Division), Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Name Toshihiro Soejima Date of Birth November 10, 1946 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Device Business Unit) • 2002 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Device Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2003 Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning & Strategy Division • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Executive Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2005 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Executive Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2007/4 Executive Vice President 148 Table of Contents Name Motokazu Yoshida Date of Birth January 7, 1948 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer, Chairman of CSR Promotion Committee (since April 1, 2008) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit) • 2002 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2003 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit • 2005/4 Executive Managing Officer, Chairman for the Americas • 2005/10 Senior Executive Managing Officer and Chairman for the Americas • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project • 2007/6 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Name Ken Abe Date of Birth September 19, 1947 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Director of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. (since June 24, 2008) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Metals Administrative Division • 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit • 2006 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Europe Business Unit • 2007 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Europe, the Middle East and Africa Business Unit • 2008/4 Executive Vice President, Director of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. Name Yoshiyuki Izawa Date of Birth February 10, 1948 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC (since April 1, 2008) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit) • 2002 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Osaka Office • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC • 2007/6 Representative Director; Senior Executive Managing Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC 149 Table of Contents Name Junichi Matsumoto Date of Birth September 25, 1947 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Compliance Officer (since April 1, 2008) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2003 Managing Officer, Deputy Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit • 2005 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Privacy Officer • 2007/6 Representative Director; Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Privacy Officer Name Masami Iijima Date of Birth September 23, 1950 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer (since June 24, 2008) Prior Positions • 2006 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit • 2007 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit • 2008/4 Executive Managing Officer Name Seiichi Tanaka Date of Birth January 12, 1953 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer, Chief Privacy Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. (since June 24, 2008) Prior Positions • 2006 Managing Officer, General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division • 2008/4 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Privacy Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. Name Akishige Okada Date of Birth April 9, 1938 Current Position Director (since June 27, 2003) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Daicel Chemical Industries, Ltd. Corporate Auditor, Hotel Okura Co., Ltd. Corporate Auditor, Toyota Motor Corporation Corporate Auditor, Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. Prior Positions • 1991 Director, The Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, Ltd. • 1995 Managing Director, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 1996 Senior Managing Director, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 1997 President, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 1999 President and Managing Director, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 2001 Chairman of the Board, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2002 Chairman of the Board, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2003 Chairman of the Board, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2005 Advisor, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 150 Table of Contents Name Nobuko Matsubara Date of Birth January 9, 1941 Current Position Director (since June 23, 2006) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Prior Positions • 1987 Director of International Labor Division, Minister’s Secretariat, the Ministry of Labor • 1991 Director-General of Women’s Bureau, the Ministry of Labor • 1997 Vice Minister of the Ministry of Labor • 1999 President of Japan Association for Employment of Persons with Disabilities • 2002/9 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to Italy • 2002/11 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to Albania, to San Marino and to Malta • 2006/1 Advisor to Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution • 2006/7 Chairman of Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution Name Ikujiro Nonaka Date of Birth May 10, 1935 Current Position Director (since June 22, 2007) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Fujitsu Limited Director, Eisai Co., Limited Director, Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Prior Positions • 1977 Professor, Management Faculty, Nanzan University • 1979 Professor, National Defense Academy of Japan • 1982 Professor, Institute of Business Research, Hitotsubashi University • 1995 Professor, Graduate School of Knowledge Science, JAIST • 1997 Xerox Distinguished Professor in Knowledge, Walter A, Haas School of Business, University of California, Berkeley • 2000 Professor, Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy, Hitotsubashi University • 2006 Professor Emeritus, Hitotsubashi University • 2007 First Distinguished Drucker Scholar in Residence, Drucker School of Claremont Graduate University Name Hiroshi Hirabayashi Date of Birth May 5, 1940 Current Position Director (since June 22, 2007) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, TOSHIBA CORPORATION Prior Positions • 1988 Director, Management and Coordination Division, Minister’s Secretariat, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 1990 Minister, Japanese Embassy in the U.S.A • 1992 Envoy, Japanese Embassy in the U.S.A • 1993 Director-General, Economic Cooperation Bureau, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 1995 Chief Cabinet Councilor’s Office on External Affairs, Cabinet Secretariat • 1997 Secretary-General, Indo-China Refugees Measures Coordination Conference • 1998 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to India and Bhutan • 2002 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to France and Andorra • 2003 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Djibouti • 2006 Ambassador in charge of Inspection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 2007/3 Councilor, The Japan Forum on International Relations, Inc. • 2007/6 President, The Japan-India Association • 2008/4 Visiting Professor, Waseda University, Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies 151 Table of Contents Corporate Auditors Name Tasuku Kondo Date of Birth August 12, 1942 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2005) Prior Positions • 1996 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Finance Division) • 1998 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director • 2002 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Financial Officer (Responsible for General Accounting Division, Finance Division and Corporate Risk Management Division) • 2004 Representative Director, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer • 2005/4 Representative Director Name Satoru Miura Date of Birth March 2, 1947 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit) • 2002 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit, Metals Group • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit • 2005 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Nagoya Office • 2007/4 Executive Managing Officer Name Motonori Murakami Date of Birth November 19, 1948 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2003 Managing Officer, General Manager of Accounting Division • 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of General Accounting & Risk Management Division • 2006 Executive Managing Officer, Assistant to Senior Executive Managing Officer (Corporate Staff Division), Assistant to Chief Financial Officer Name Ko Matsukata Date of Birth March 27, 1933 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 1996) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Corporate Auditor, Mitsui Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Prior Positions • 1984 Director and General Manager of Corporate Planning Department, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1985 Executive Managing Director and General Manager of Corporate Planning Department, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1988 Senior Executive Managing Director, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1990/1 Executive Vice President, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1990/6 President, Taisho Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1996 Vice Chairman, Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1997 Advisor to the Board, Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 2006 Standing Advisor, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. • 2008 Honorary Advisor, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. 152 Table of Contents Name Hideharu Kadowaki Date of Birth June 20, 1944 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2004) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Corporate Auditor, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. Prior Positions • 1996 Director, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 1998 Managing Director, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 1999 Managing Director & Executive Managing Officer, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 2000 Senior Managing Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 2001 Senior Managing Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer, The Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2002 Senior Managing Director, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2003 Deputy President, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2004 Chairman of the Institute, The Japan Research Institute, Limited Name Naoto Nakamura Date of Birth January 25, 1960 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 23, 2006) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Corporate Auditor, Asahi Breweries, Ltd. Prior Positions • 1985/4 Admitted to the member of Second Tokyo Bar Association • 1985/4 Joined Mori Sogo Law Office • 1998 Founded HIBIYA PARK LAW OFFICES and became a partner • 2003/2 Founded Law Firm of Naoto Nakamura (currently Law Firm of Nakamura, Tsunoda & Matsumoto) and became a partner Name Kunihiro Matsuo Date of Birth September 13, 1942 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2008) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Asahi Glass Co., Ltd. Corporate Auditor, Toyota Motor Corporation Prior Positions • 1968 Appointment as Public Prosecutor • 1999 Vice Minister of Justice • 2004 Attorney General • 2006 Admission as Attorney at Law There is no family relationship between any Directors, Corporate Auditors, Executive Officers and any other persons named above. There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above and any other person pursuant to which they were selected as a Director, a Corporate Auditor or a member of the senior management. 153 Table of Contents B. Compensation. The aggregate amount of compensation and benefits in kind paid to Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥4,545 million. A breakdown is provided as below. Directors and Corporate Auditors The remuneration of Directors and Corporate Auditors totaling ¥1,240 million during the year ended March 31, 2008 was as follows. Number of recipients Total remuneration paidrelating to the year endedMarch 31, 2008 Directors 13 ¥ 1,053 million Corporate Auditors 7 ¥ 187 million External Directors and External Corporate Auditors (included in the above amounts) 8 ¥ 86 million Total 20 ¥ 1,240 million Notes: i) Limits on remuneration of Directors and Corporate Auditors have been determined by General Meeting of Shareholders resolutions as follows: for Directors, there is a total limit of ¥70 million per month (by resolution of June 22, 2007); for Corporate Auditors, there is a total limit of ¥20 million per month (by resolution of June 22, 2007). ii) The above amounts include ¥410 million in bonuses for Directors (excluding external Directors), which was determined by the following system. Total bonuses for Directors (excluding External Directors) are calculated as the lesser of consolidated net income x 0.1% and ¥500 million, which is payable to each director in proportionate allocation according to points given to each Director’s position. The Remuneration Committee reviewed the formula and reported to the Board of Directors in advance of the Board of Directors’ decision to establish the formula. Executive Officers The remuneration of Executive Officers (excluding Executive Officers who are also Directors) totaled ¥2,524 million during the year ended March 31, 2008, comprised of ¥997 million in bonuses and ¥1,527 million in monthly remunerations. The Remuneration Committee also reviews and reports to the Board of Directors on appropriateness of remuneration system and compensation levels for Executive Officers. Pension Plans and Retirement Allowances In addition, the aggregate amount of benefits from Directors’ and Corporate Auditors’ Pension Plans and retirement allowances for retiring Directors and Corporate Auditors—accrued prior to the abolition of the retirement allowance system—paid during the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥781 million. Our retirement allowance system for Directors and Corporate Auditors was abolished pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors in February 2004. Up to this resolution, in accordance with customary Japanese business practices, a retiring Director or Corporate Auditor was entitled to receive a retirement allowance, which was subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders. The amount of the retirement allowance generally reflected the number of years of service, rank at the time of retirement and special contributions to our performance. After the abolition of the retirement allowance system, retirement allowances are not paid except for those accrued prior to the abolition. The aggregate amount set aside by us to provide pension benefits to Directors and Corporate Auditors was ¥3,125 million as of March 31, 2008. 154 Table of Contents Mitsui has no stock option plans for Mitsui’s Directors and Senior Management as of June 24, 2008. C. Board Practices. The information in “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” is incorporated into this section by reference. None of our Directors have entered into any service contracts with us providing for benefits upon termination of his or her employment. The Corporate Law of Japan allows a company to adopt the “Committee System” as the framework for corporate governance. We have decided, however, to maintain the corporate auditor system because we believe that our Corporate Auditors, of whom three are full-time and four are external Auditors as of March 31, 2008 and whose functions are legally defined and reinforced, provide adequate auditing functions. Furthermore, internal Directors are familiar with our business operations and can therefore contribute to effective management. Although we retained the corporate auditor system, we have decided to adopt certain aspects of the Committee System and have established three committees (the Governance Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee) to provide advice to the Board of Directors. In addition, other measures have been taken, such as shortening the term of Directors and Executive Officers from two years to one year, eliminating the retirement allowance, and increasing the number of external Directors. Functions and Composition of three committees The functions and composition of three committees are provided as below. Governance Committee Assignment : To study the state and direction of Mitsui’s corporate governance Composition : Chairman (committee chair, Nobuo Ohashi), President (Shoei Utsuda), External Directors 2 (Nobuko Matsubara, Ikujiro Nonaka), internal Directors 3 (Motokazu Yoshida, Junichiro Matsumoto, Seiichi Tanaka), External Corporate Auditor 1 (Ko Matsukata) Nomination Committee Assignment : To establish the selection standards and processes used in nominating directors and executive officers as well as evaluating director nomination proposals Composition : President (committee chair, Shoei Utsuda), External Directors 2 (Akishige Okada, Hiroshi Hirabayashi), internal Directors 2 (Motokazu Yoshida, Seiichi Tanaka) Remuneration Committee Assignment : To study the system and decision-making process related to remuneration and bonuses for directors and executive officers while evaluating remuneration proposals for them Composition : External Director (committee chair, Akishige Okada), President (Shoei Utsuda), internal Directors 2 (Junichi Matsumoto, Seiichi Tanaka) 155 Table of Contents Our Directors and Corporate Auditors are elected at the general meeting of shareholders. In accordance with our Articles of Incorporation, the normal term of office for our Directors is one year(1) and for our Corporate Auditors is four years. However, they may both serve any number of consecutive terms. The following table shows our Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ terms of office and their shareholdings as of March 31, 2008. Length of TimeServed in Office(From Appointmentto June 2008)(1) Shareholdings as ofMarch 31, 2008 Director: Nobuo Ohashi 14 years 76,081 Shoei Utsuda 11 years 55,016 Toshihiro Soejima 2 years 18,574 Motokazu Yoshida 2 years 14,968 Ken Abe Less than 1 year 27,627 Yoshiyuki Izawa 3 years 15,424 Junichi Matsumoto 1 year 18,298 Masami Iijima Less than 1 year 11,031 Seiichi Tanaka Less than 1 year 2,828 Akishige Okada(2) 5 years 1,847 Nobuko Matsubara(2) 2 years 960 Ikujiro Nonaka(2) 1 year 2,181 Hiroshi Hirabayashi(2) 1 year 739 Note (1) At Mitsui’s ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on June 24, 2004, an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation was resolved whereby the normal term of office for Directors has been changed from two years to one year. Note (2) Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi are external Directors. Date of Expiration ofCurrent Term of Office Length of TimeServed in Office(From Appointmentto June 2008) Shareholdings as ofMarch 31, 2008 Corporate Auditor: Tasuku Kondo June 2009 3 years 24,094 Satoru Miura June 2011 1 year 15,376 Motonori Murakami June 2011 1 year 22,961 Ko Matsukata(3) June 2009 12 years 15,635 Hideharu Kadowaki(3) June 2012 4 years 5,956 Naoto Nakamura(3) June 2010 2 years 0 Kunihiro Matsuo(3) June 2012 Less than 1 year 0 Note (3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki, Mr. Naoto Nakamura and Mr. Kunihiro Matsuo are external Corporate Auditors. 156 Table of Contents Length of TimeServed in Office(From Appointmentto June 2008)(4) Shareholdings as ofMarch 31, 2008 Executive Officer (excluding Executive Officers who are also a Director): Yasunori Yokote 8 years 24,033 Toshimasa Furukawa 6 years 15,743 Shinjiro Ogawa 6 years 16,637 Jitsuro Terashima 5 years 25,326 Koji Nakamura 4 years 12,902 Kenichi Yamamoto 4 years 13,269 Toshio Awata 4 years 9,972 Kiyotaka Watanabe 3 years 7,039 Masaaki Fujita 3 years 5,582 Junichi Mizonoue 3 years 5,478 Takao Omae 3 years 10,281 Norinao Iio 3 years 5,797 Hideyo Hayakawa 2 years 2,828 Masaaki Murakami 4 years 19,172 Osamu Koyama 3 years 3,055 Terukazu Okahashi 2 years 10,136 Osamu Takahashi 2 years 6,973 Shigeru Hanagata 2 years 10,828 Masayoshi Komai 1 year 4,396 Katsumi Ogawa 1 year 1,396 Akio Yamamoto 1 year 3,094 Yoshinori Setoyama 1 year 13,496 Noriaki Sakamoto 1 year 1,496 Masahiko Okamura 1 year 4,640 Fuminobu Kawashima 1 year 10,396 Masaaki Iida 1 year 3,396 Joji Okada Less than 1 year 8,202 Takashi Fukunaga Less than 1 year 97 Takashi Yamauchi Less than 1 year 1,103 Shuji Nakura Less than 1 year 1,097 Mitsuhiko Kawai Less than 1 year 8,178 Daisuke Saiga Less than 1 year 97 Masayuki Kinoshita Less than 1 year 1,138 Atsushi Oi Less than 1 year 103 Total Shareholdings by Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers 596,972 Note (4) The rules of Executive Officers provide for the term of the Executive Officers as one year starting April 1 and ending March 31. Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provide that the Board of Directors shall elect from among its members Representative Directors, one of whom shall be the President. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, each of the Representative Directors has statutory authority and power to represent and act on behalf of the company in all respects. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, at least half of the Corporate Auditors should be persons who have not at any time been a director, executive officer, manager or employee of a company or any of its subsidiaries prior to his or her election as a Corporate Auditor. Each Corporate Auditor has a statutory duty to examine financial statements, in collaboration with independent auditors, and business reports and also to supervise the administration of the company’s affairs by Directors. Corporate Auditors are required to participate in meetings of the Board of Directors but are not entitled to vote. 157 Table of Contents The Board of Corporate Auditors is comprised of all Corporate Auditors. The Board of Corporate Auditors has a statutory duty to prepare its audit report each year. Each Corporate Auditor has the right to write his or her individual opinion in the audit report if his or her opinion is different from the opinion expressed in the audit report of the Board of Corporate Auditors. The Board of Corporate Auditors is empowered to establish audit principles, methods of examination by the Corporate Auditors of the company’s affairs and financial position and other matters concerning the performance of the Corporate Auditors’ duties. The Corporate Auditors may not at the same time be directors, managers or employees of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Exemption from Certain Corporate Governance Requirements of NASDAQ. Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(a)(1) provides that a foreign private issuer may follow its home country practice in lieu of the requirements of Rule 4350, provided that such foreign private issuer discloses in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each requirement of Rule 4350 that it does not follow and describes the home country practice followed by the issuer in lieu of such requirements. Such requirements of Rule 4350 and the relevant home country practices we follow are described below: • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(b) requires that we make available to shareholders copies of our annual report containing our audited financial statements by mail or by posting on or through our website. In accordance with the Corporate Law of Japan, we hold an annual meeting of shareholders within three months after the end of each fiscal year. Also, in accordance with the Corporate Law of Japan, we distribute to shareholders, prior to the annual meeting of shareholders, copies of a report of business operations, together with our audited consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Japanese GAAP, respectively, in Japanese. Concurrently with such distribution, we distribute our audited consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Japanese GAAP, respectively, in English to the depository for the ADSs, and instruct the depository to distribute the same to the registered ADS holders in a timely manner. The English version contains a statement that, upon request by an interested party, we will provide the party with a copy of our annual report on Form 20-F free of charge. As a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP for inclusion in our annual report on Form 20-F, which must be filed within six months after the end of each fiscal year. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(1) requires that a majority of the board of directors of each issuer be independent directors as defined in Rule 4200, and Rule 4350(c)(2) requires that independent directors of each issuer have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. For Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, the Corporate Law of Japan has no independence requirement with respect to directors. The task of overseeing management and accounting firms is assigned to the corporate auditors, who are separate from the company’s management. Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, are required to have at least 50% “external” corporate auditor who must meet additional independence requirements under the Corporate Law of Japan. An external corporate auditor is defined in the Corporate Law of Japan as a corporate auditor who has not served as a director, executive officer, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time prior to the appointment. Currently, we have four external Corporate Auditors. Our Board of Corporate Auditors, which, as explained below, performs functions similar to those of an audit committee, has regularly scheduled meetings at which only Corporate Auditors are present. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2) requires that each issuer have and will continue to have an audit committee of at least three members, each of whom (1) is independent as defined under Rule 4200(a)(15), (2) meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (3) has not participated in the preparation of the financial statements of the issuer or any current subsidiary thereof at any time during the past three years, and (4) is able to read and understand 158 Table of Contents fundamental financial statements, including a company’s balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement, as required by Rule 4350(d)(2). Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(1) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written audit committee charter specifying the items enumerated in that rule and that its audit committee have reviewed and reassessed the adequacy of the charter on an annual basis. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, we are not required to establish or maintain such an audit committee. The Corporate Law of Japan has no independence requirement with respect to directors of “large” companies (defined under the Corporate Law of Japan as joint stock corporations with stated capital of ¥500 million or more or with total liabilities equal to or exceeding ¥20 billion), including Mitsui, that employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors. In many such “large” companies, functions similar to those of such an audit committee are performed by its board of corporate auditors. We have established such a Board of Corporate Auditors, each of whom does not concurrently serve as a director, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, corporate auditors are elected at a general meeting of shareholders and are under a statutory duty to review the administration of the affairs of Mitsui by its Directors and to examine financial statements and other documents and reports of Mitsui. Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, are required to have at least 50% “external” corporate auditors, who must meet additional independence requirements under the Corporate Law of Japan. An external corporate auditor is defined in the Corporate Law of Japan as a corporate auditor who had not served as a director, executive officer, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time prior to the appointment. Currently, we have seven Corporate Auditors, four of whom are external Corporate Auditors who meet these additional requirements. Mitsui’s Board of Corporate Auditors has adopted its own code of auditing standards setting forth the scope of its responsibilities and the manner in which it carries out such responsibilities, and certain other matters. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(3) requires that compensation of the chief executive officer of each issuer be determined, or recommended to its board of directors for determination, either by (i) a majority of its independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and that compensation of all other executive officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. As explained above, we are not required to have independent directors. With regard to director compensation (excluding bonuses, etc.), the Corporate Law of Japan requires the board of directors to pass a board resolution proposing director compensation to be submitted for approval at a general meeting of shareholders. Within the upper limit approved at the general meeting of shareholders, the board of directors may determine the amount of compensation for each director. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate such decision to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, the upper limit of compensation for its Directors approved by the general meeting of shareholders is 70 million yen per month and the Board of Directors has determined to delegate to the Chief Executive Officer the decision-making authority as to the amount of compensation for each Director within such limit. In addition to regular compensation, the aggregate amount of bonuses and other financial benefits payable to Directors as consideration for the performance of their duties is also subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders under the Corporate Law of Japan. With regard to employee (including officer) compensation, an approval at the general meeting of shareholders is not required under the Corporate Law of Japan. Therefore, the board of directors has the authority to determine matters relating to employee compensation. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate employee compensation matters to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, its Board of Directors has duly resolved Regulations for Executive Officers, which provide that Executive Officers who are also Directors of the Company shall not be paid any compensation in their capacities as Executive Officers and that the compensation of the Executive Officers who are not Directors of the Company shall be decided by the Board of Directors, or decided by the Chief Executive Officer or other Officers authorized by the Board 159 Table of Contents of Directors. Mitsui determines compensation of its Chief Executive Officer and other Officers in accordance with the aforementioned procedures. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to compensation of the chief executive officer and other executive officers under the Corporate Law of Japan. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the compensation of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general meeting of shareholders and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4) requires that director nominees be selected or recommended for the board of directors’ selection either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. Also, Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4)(B) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process and such related matters as may be required under the U.S. federal securities laws. As explained above, we are not required to have independent directors. Under the Corporate Law of Japan, a director may be nominated by (i) a resolution of the board of directors or (ii) a shareholder owning one percent or more of the outstanding shares of a company or 300 or more shares of the company for at least 6 months. Approval by a majority of the shareholders in attendance at a general meeting of shareholders is required to elect a director. There is no specific requirement that a company adopt a written charter or board resolution addressing the nominations process, nor is it customary to do so. As for Mitsui, nominations of Directors of Mitsui are approved at a meeting of the Nomination Committee, a non-statutory committee established as an advisory board to the Board of Directors, prior to being submitted to a general meeting of shareholders. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to nomination of directors under the Corporate Law of Japan. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the nomination of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general meeting of shareholders and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(f) requires that there be a provision in the by-laws for a quorum for any meeting of the holders of common stock and that such quorum be not less than 33 1/3% of the outstanding shares of the common voting stock. In accordance with the Corporate Law of Japan, however, under our Articles of Incorporation no quorum is required for the adoption of resolutions at a general meeting of shareholders, except for (i) the election of Directors and Corporate Auditors for which the quorum shall not be less than one-third of the total voting rights and (ii) resolutions for other specified issues required by the Corporate Law of Japan (the “special shareholders’ resolutions”), which include an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, a reduction of stated capital, the removal of a Corporate Auditor, dissolution, merger or consolidation requiring shareholders resolution, the transfer of the whole or an important part of the business, the taking over of the whole of the business of any other corporation requiring shareholders’ resolutions, share exchange or share transfer requiring shareholders resolution for the purpose of establishing 100% parent-subsidiary relationships, splitting of the corporation into two or more corporations requiring shareholders’ resolution, any offering of new shares at a “specially favorable” price (or any offering of the rights to subscribe for, or acquire its shares at a “specially favorable” conditions) to any persons other than shareholders, for which the quorum shall be at least one-third of the total voting rights and the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting rights represented at the meeting is required. This approach is consistent with generally accepted business practices of publicly-held companies in Japan. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(g) provides that each issuer solicit proxies and provide proxy statements for all meetings of shareholders and provide copies of such proxy solicitation to Nasdaq. Currently a Japanese company whose shares are listed on the securities exchanges defined in the Financial 160 Table of Contents Instruments and Exchange Law, including us, may, but is not required to, solicit proxies for meetings of shareholders. If such a Japanese company solicits proxies for a meeting of shareholders, it is required to provide proxy statements and documents for reference as provided for in the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law and provide copies of such proxy statements and documents for reference to the Kanto Local Finance Bureau. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(h) provides that each issuer conduct appropriate review and oversight of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis by the issuer’s audit committee or another independent body of the board of directors. Following the requirements of the Corporate Law of Japan, we require a Director to obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in order for such Director to enter into such transactions. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1) requires that shareholder approval be obtained for the issuance of the issuer’s stock in certain conditions or certain specified transactions described therein. The Corporate Law of Japan requires us to seek shareholder approval of various matters, and in certain instances the special shareholders’ resolutions as described above are required for approval. In addition, while the Corporate Law of Japan permits, in certain instances, the issuance of equity securities without shareholder approval, the Corporate Law of Japan also contains provisions requiring the timely dissemination of information relating to such issuance, allowing for opportunities for shareholders to voice their concern with such issuance, and mandating the election of corporate auditors whose fiduciary duty is to, among other things, oversee on behalf of the shareholders actions by the board of directors relating to such issuance. The rights of ADS holders, including their rights relating to corporate governance practices, are provided in the deposit agreement. Limitation of Liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui provide that Mitsui may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, exempt the Directors and Corporate Auditors from their liabilities to the extent as permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui also provide that Mitsui may conclude a contract with external Directors and external Corporate Auditors to limit the liability of such Directors and Corporate Auditors to the extent as permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. In accordance with such provision of the Articles of Incorporation, Mitsui has concluded with external Directors (Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi) and external Corporate Auditors (Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki, Mr. Naoto Nakamura and Mr. Kunihiro Matsuo), respectively, contracts to limit their liability to the extent permitted by the Corporate Law of Japan. D. Employees As of March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had 42,621, 41,761 and 40,993 employees, respectively. The average number of temporary employees during the year ended March 31, 2008 was 18,376. Effective April 1, 2007, we changed our reportable operating segments as follows: • We transferred coal mining, nuclear fuel and other businesses which were formerly included in “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals” to “Energy.” “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals” was renamed and presented as “Mineral & Metal Resources.” • The former “Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication.” was renamed and presented as “Consumer Service & IT.” • Subsidiaries in Oceania which were formerly included in “Other Overseas Areas” were integrated to “Asia” and presented as “Asia Pacific.” Also, subsidiaries in the Middle East, Africa and Russia which were formerly included in “Other Overseas Areas” were combined with “Europe” and presented as “Europe, the Middle East and Africa.” 161 Table of Contents For more information, see Note 17, “Segment Information,” to our consolidated financial statements. The following tables provide the numbers of employees by operating segment as of the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. It is not practicable to restate the numbers as of March 31, 2007 and 2006 to conform to the current year presentation. Year ended March 31, 2008 Operating Segment: Iron & Steel Products 2,255 Mineral & Metal Resources 757 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 13,177 Chemical 3,489 Energy 1,633 Foods & Retail 6,008 Consumer Service & IT 4,540 Logistics & Financial Markets 1,177 Americas 4,297 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 1,299 Asia Pacific 2,196 All Other 1,793 Total 42,621 Year ended March 31, 2007 2006 Operating Segment: Iron & Steel Products 2,270 2,044 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 2,425 2,504 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 10,859 9,338 Chemical 3,731 3,735 Energy 1,516 1,384 Foods & Retail 6,575 6,555 Lifestyle, Consumer Services and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 5,481 5,607 Logistics & Financial Markets 1,284 1,239 Americas 2,316 2,888 Europe 1,081 1,078 Asia 1,969 2,102 Other Overseas Areas 503 535 All Other 1,751 1,984 Total 41,761 40,993 We consider relations between management and our labor unions to be good. E. Share Ownership. Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers As of March 31, 2008, the members of Mitsui’s Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers held as a group, 596,972 shares of our common stock, representing 0.033% of the shares outstanding. This number of shares included 49,155 shares held by Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. None of Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors nor Executive Officers is the beneficial owner of more than 1% of Mitsui’s common stock. The number of shares held by Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers, on an individual basis, is provided in “Item 6.C. Board Practices,” and is incorporated herein by reference. 162 Table of Contents In July, 2006, a new management shareholding scheme was introduced, whereby each of Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers are required to purchase Mitsui’s shares through Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers purchase Mitsui’s shares in an amount equivalent to 10% of his or her salary, which amount is deducted from his or her salary for the purchases through said Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Employees Shareholding Association Mitsui operates an Employees’ Shareholding Association which, as of March 31, 2008, had 3,417 employee member participants. Employee members declare monthly the amount to be deducted from his or her salary to be used to purchase shares of common stock of Mitsui through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members receive from Mitsui a monthly subsidy equivalent to 10% of the declared amount, enabling them to purchase shares equivalent to 110% of the declared amount. Employee members are entitled to dividends which are applied towards the purchase of additional shares through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members are able to sell part of their shares that have been reserved for them under the Employees’ Shareholding Association’s plan, in multiples of 1,000 shares, once every month. As of March 31, 2008, the total amount of shares having voting rights owned by the Employees’ Shareholding Association was 10,297,673, representing 0.57% of the total shares issued and outstanding. Mitsui does not have any other arrangements for its employees that involve the issue or grant of options, shares or securities of Mitsui. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions. A. Major Shareholders. As of March 31, 2008, there were 1,820,183,809 shares of our common stock issued (including 3,543,891 shares of treasury stock), of which 17,626,180 shares were in the form of ADSs, representing 0.97% of our then outstanding common stock, and 284,271,239 shares, representing 15.65% of our then outstanding common stock, were held of record in the form of common stock by residents in the United States. The number of registered ADS holders was 39, and the number of registered holders of shares of common stock in the United States was 211. The following table shows our major shareholders as of March 31, 2008, including shareholders who owned less than 5% of our then outstanding common stock, disclosed under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan. Shareholders Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 180,697 9.92 % Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 130,503 7.16 % State Street Bank and Trust Company 53,271 2.92 % Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 38,500 2.11 % Mitsui Life Insurance Company Limited 37,630 2.06 % Nippon Life Insurance Company 35,070 1.92 % The Chuo Mitsui Trust and Banking Company, Limited 30,799 1.69 % The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 30,375 1.66 % State Street Bank and Trust Company 505103 30,044 1.65 % The Chase Manhattan Bank N.A. London Secs Lending Omnibus Account 25,723 1.41 % (*) The figures are rounded down to two decimal places. 163 Table of Contents Under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan, any person that becomes a holder (together with its related persons) of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company listed on any Japanese stock exchange (including ADSs representing such shares) must file a report with the Director of the relevant Local Finance Bureau and send a copy of such report to the company. A similar report must also be filed if the percentage holding of a holder of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company increases or decreases by 1% or more. Based on such reports we have received, we are aware that each of the following persons, together with its affiliates, was the beneficial owner of our common stock in the amounts and as of the dates shown in the following tables: Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Ltd. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) September 30, 2005 98,021,300 6.19 March 31, 2006 76,106,300 4.41 Barclays Global Investors Japan Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) June 30, 2005 73,848,516 4.66 % August 30, 2005 79,629,817 5.03 September 9, 2005 72,230,817 4.56 September 26, 2005 79,727,817 5.03 October 31, 2005 82,041,817 5.17 December 6, 2005 63,299,817 4.00 Fidelity Investments Japan Limited Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) December 31, 2005 85,569,000 5.40 % February 15, 2007 72,786,000 4.22 May 31, 2007 90,801,000 5.08 March 31, 2008 69,399,760 3.82 JPMorgan Trust Bank Limited Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) March 31, 2006 88,102,243 5.11 % September 30, 2006 60,525,493 3.51 AllianceBernstein Japan Ltd. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) May 31, 2006 91,095,320 5.28 % February 29, 2008 116,987,615 6.44 164 Table of Contents Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) August 31, 2006 97,028,174 5.55 % January 15, 2007 72,867,946 4.20 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) January 29, 2007 86,629,949 5.02 % October 8, 2007 147,839,726 8.16 (*1) The numbers of shares of common stock owned include those of convertible bonds owned that are calculated on a fully diluted basis. (*2) The percentage figures are calculated as of the dates shown in the table. Percentage figures as of March 31, 2008, after the issuance of 130 million shares through the public offering in February 2006 and 9.75 million shares through the third party allotment in March 2006, are not necessarily available from the aforementioned reports. The voting rights of our major shareholders do not differ from the voting rights of other shareholders. To our knowledge, we are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any other corporations, by any foreign government or by any other natural or legal persons severally or jointly. We know of no arrangements which may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of Mitsui. B. Related Party Transactions When conducting our business operations throughout the world, we form alliances with leading partner companies in Japan and overseas, including manufacturers and companies in the field of natural resources, such as energy and ferrous materials. In addition to investing in, or providing loans to, associated companies where we are a minority shareholder, we conduct selling and purchasing transactions of various products on a recurring basis with such associated companies. Our principal associated companies include Valepar S.A. (18.24%), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (50.00%), Sims Group Limited (16.00%), P.T. Paiton Energy (36.32%), IPM (UK) Power Holdings (25.00%), and Penske Automotive Group, Inc. (The Company changed its name from United Auto Group, Inc. on July 2, 2007.)(16.32%), among others. The following table shows information regarding account balances and transactions with associated companies: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2008 Accounts receivable, trade ¥ 229 Advances to associated companies 138 Accounts payable, trade 69 Dividends received from associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2008 amounted to ¥99 billion. See Note 6, “INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES” to our consolidated financial statements. 165 Table of Contents Prices applied in transactions with associated companies are computed in the same way that such prices would be calculated in transactions with unrelated third parties. In addition, when associated companies are counterparties in transactions with us and we conduct such business under long-term procurement and/or sales contracts, in general, we conclude a corresponding sales contract with the purchasers (unrelated parties) of goods procured by us and/or with suppliers (unrelated parties) of the goods we sell to associated companies. Regarding any other commitments related to transactions with associated companies, we do not normally assume risk in excess of its percentage of share ownership in an associated company. In furtherance of their trading activities, it is customary practice for us to loan or guarantee, severally and jointly with others, indebtedness of certain customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. At March 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of loans (including ¥73 billion guarantees) relating to associated companies was ¥209 billion. The largest amount outstanding as of March 31, 2008 was a ¥23 billion loan with interest to P&M Drilling International B.V., which engages in capital lease operation in Netherlands. The loan was mainly from Mitsui. Other major loans to associated companies are related to the power plant project and the capital lease operation of ships. In the ordinary course of our business, we have entered into transactions with various organizations with which certain of our Directors and Senior Management are associated, but no material transactions have been entered into for the three-year period ended March 31, 2008. As of March 31, 2008, no person was the beneficial owner of more than 10% of our common stock. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel. Not applicable. Item 8. Financial Information. A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information. Consolidated Financial Statements The audited consolidated financial statements required by this item are included elsewhere in this annual report. Export Sales The total amount of revenues from export transactions for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥456 billion, or 8% of total revenue of ¥5,739 billion. Legal Proceedings Various claims and legal actions are pending against us in respect of contractual obligations and other matters arising out of the conduct of our business. Appropriate provision has been recorded for the estimated loss on claims and legal actions. In the opinion of management, any liability will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Dividend Policy We have set the target dividend payout ratio at 20% of consolidated net income, and by growing profits we will aim to progressively and sustainably increase dividend payments. Such payments will, however, be subject to our future earnings, financial condition, approval at the shareholders’ meeting (in the case of year-end dividends) and other factors, including statutory and other restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends. 166 Table of Contents B. Significant Changes Except as disclosed in this annual report, there has not been any significant change since the date of the latest annual financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Item 9. The Offer and Listing. A. Offer and Listing Details. The primary market for Mitsui’s common stock is the Tokyo Stock Exchange, or TSE. Mitsui’s common stock is traded on the First Section of the TSE and is also listed on four other stock exchanges in Japan (Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka and Sapporo Stock Exchanges). Mitsui’s American Depository Shares (“ADSs”), each representing 20 shares of common stock, are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol MITSY. American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”), each evidencing one or more ADSs, were originally issued pursuant to a Deposit Agreement in May 1963, as amended from time to time, that we entered into with Citibank N.A. of New York as Depositary and the holders of the ADRs. The following table provides the reported high and low closing sales prices of our common stock on the TSE and the reported high and low closing bid price quotations per ADS for the period indicated: TSE NASDAQ Price per Share ofCommon Stock(Yen) Price per ADS(U.S. dollars)(1) High Low High Low Year ended March 31: 2004 ¥ 946 ¥ 541 $ 181.50 $ 90.90 2005 1,074 773 206.20 137.50 2006 1,731 908 292.66 171.50 2007 2,315 1,427 382.21 245.00 2008 3,080 1,704 538.92 336.25 Year ended March 31, 2007: First quarter ¥ 1,824 ¥ 1,427 $ 326.00 $ 249.42 Second quarter 1,750 1,445 304.00 249.46 Third quarter 1,788 1,430 301.90 245.00 Fourth quarter 2,315 1,671 382.21 281.44 Year ended March 31, 2008: First quarter ¥ 2,595 ¥ 2,040 $ 416.60 $ 347.21 Second quarter 2,880 2,005 501.67 371.60 Third quarter 3,080 2,270 538.92 395.02 Fourth quarter 2,405 1,704 463.97 336.25 Year ending March 31, 2009: First quarter ¥ 2,750 ¥ 2,040 $ 526.70 $ 400.04 Month of: February 2008 ¥ 2,405 ¥ 2,020 $ 454.54 $ 380.00 March 2008 2,395 1,926 463.97 384.26 April 2008 2,595 2,040 506.05 400.04 May 2008 2,750 2,390 526.70 457.82 June 2008 2,605 2,290 496.00 421.07 July 2008 2,425 2,035 454.20 387.78 (1) All fractional figures of the prices per ADS are rounded to the nearest two decimal points. 167 Table of Contents Share prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges set daily price limits, which limit the maximum range of fluctuation within a single trading day. Daily price limits are set according to the previous day’s closing price or special quote. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. On July 31, 2008, the closing sales price per share of our common stock on the TSE was ¥2,235, and the closing sales price per ADS on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was U.S.$415.99. B. Plan of Distribution. Not applicable. C. Markets. See “Item 9.A. Offer and Listing Details.” D. Selling Shareholders. Not applicable. E. Dilution. Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue. Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information. A. Share Capital. Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association. General Set forth below is information relating to the organization and common stock of Mitsui, including brief summaries of the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations adopted by Mitsui’s Board of Directors, as currently in effect, and of the Corporate Law of Japan and related legislation. With the revision of the Corporate Law of Japan and related legislation on May 1, 2006, the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations were, among other things, amended as follows: (1) Article 16 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that Mitsui may, in convening General Meetings of Shareholders, post on Internet information required to be recorded or indicated in reference documents for General Meetings of Shareholders, business reports, financial statements and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations. Such posting of information may be deemed to constitute provision of such information to shareholders; 168 Table of Contents (2) Article 18 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that a shareholder may exercise his/her voting rights by proxy who shall be one shareholder of Mitsui with voting rights; (3) Article 24 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation enables the Board of Directors to simplify the resolution process by providing that Mitsui shall deem a resolution of the Board of Directors to have been adopted if all the Directors agree in writing or electromagnetic record thereto and other requirements provided for in the Corporate Law of Japan are satisfied; and (4) Article 32 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation enables Mitsui to enter into agreements to limit the liability of its external Corporate Auditors so that Mitsui may engage suitable personnel who are able to fulfill their expected roles as external Corporate Auditors. Organization Mitsui is a corporation (kabushiki kaisha) incorporated in Japan under the Corporate Law of Japan. It is registered in the Commercial Register (shogyo tokibo) maintained by the Tokyo Legal Affairs Bureau and several other registry offices of the Ministry of Justice. Objects and Purposes Article 2 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that our objects are to engage in the following business: 1. Foreign trade, purchases and sales, wholesale, agency and brokerage business relating to the following commodities: (1) Ferrous and non-ferrous metals and their raw materials, manufactured goods, and minerals. (2) Coal, petroleum, natural gas and other fuels and their by-products. (3) All kinds of machines, appliances (including measuring instruments and medical apparatus) and equipment including manufacturing equipment, communications equipment and antipollution equipment, rolling stock and vehicles, ships and boats, aerospace equipment and aircraft, and parts for the foregoing. (4) All kinds of chemical products, salt, fertilizers, high-pressure gas, explosives, pharmaceuticals (including medicines, non-medicinal drugs, medicine for veterinary use, narcotics, poisons and stimulants), radio isotopes, cosmetics, and raw materials for the foregoing. (5) Cereals, sugar, oils and fats, feeds and their raw materials; livestock, agricultural, dairy and marine products, processed foods, alcoholic beverages and other foodstuffs and drinks. (6) All kinds of textile products and their raw materials. (7) All kinds of fur products and raw fur. (8) Lumber, cement, other building materials and housing-related equipment. (9) Rubber, pulp, paper and their manufactured goods; tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and sundry goods. (10) Industrial water and drinking water. 2. Exploration, development, manufacturing, processing, scrapping and recycling business relating to the above-mentioned items. 3. Acquisition, planning, preservation, utilization and disposition of copyright, patents and other intellectual property rights, know-how, systems technology and other software, including acting as an intermediary in such transactions. 