D. Risk Factors.” Regulations with Respect to the Exploration and Production of Oil, Gas, and Mineral Resources We are involved in various projects involving exploration for and production of crude oil, natural gas, iron raw material and non-ferrous metals in many different countries in which we participate as a minority stakeholder and non-operator. These exploration and production activities are subject to a broad range of local laws and regulations, which affect virtually all aspects of these activities. Contractual arrangements in connection with our oil, gas and mining activities, such as leases, licenses and production agreements are generally entered into with a government entity or a government owned company. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Metal Products & Minerals Segment and Energy Segment.” To date, changes in governmental laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our oil, gas and mining projects. Some of our oil, gas and mineral projects are located in politically and economically stable regions, such as Australia, where the legal systems are relatively developed. However, 20 Table of Contents we also hold interests in oil, gas and mineral resources in regions where legal systems are less developed. These investments may be adversely impacted by factors such as a lack of comprehensive sets of laws and regulations, an unpredictable judicial system based on inconsistent application and interpretation of laws and regulations, and constantly changing practices of regulatory and administrative bodies. Governmental Regulations with Respect to Infrastructure Projects We are engaged in various infrastructure projects worldwide. These include construction of power plants, oil and gas pipelines, telecommunications and broadcasting systems, cargo transportation systems, and public transit systems in developing countries. In these projects, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations with respect to technical specifications, environmental protection, pricing, labor, taxation, foreign exchange and other matters. We commonly enter into contractual arrangements with government owned companies that are subject to their own sets of laws and regulations. Changes in laws and regulations after the commencement of projects may result in lengthy delays which can negatively impact our cash flows and hinder the repatriation of capital from such projects. Governmental Regulations with Respect to Human Health and Environment We are subject to extensive laws and regulations worldwide with respect to human health and the environment. Regulations governing food products for human consumption are complex, detailed and stringent. For instance, in Japan, our food related operations are under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. We are subject to the Food Safety Basic Law, which codifies the safety standard for food products. For example, it determines the threshold amount at which harmful substances such as pesticide residues are considered to be unacceptable. We must expend significant resources to comply with these regulations not only in Japan but in all jurisdictions where we engage in food-related operations. We are also subject to complex environmental laws and regulations worldwide. For example, in Japan, when trading, storing or transporting chemical products or disposing of wastes and by-products from our industrial plants, we are required to notify the local regulators and/or obtain approvals or licenses. Any violation of laws and regulations may not only result in severe fines and penalties, but the regulators may require us to curtail or even cease operations, install expensive pollution control systems, and comply with enhanced notification obligations. Products and Services and Principal Activities by Reportable Operating Segments The Establishment of the Five Major Operating Groups Structure for the Year Ended March 31, 2003 We had undertaken a management reorganization in our Head Office that included introduction of the Five Major Operating Groups Structure in April 2002. The five operating groups, which were organized based on our “products and services,” planned overall and worldwide strategies for their products and services and conducted their worldwide operations. A discrete set of financial information was available for each of the five operating groups and each of the five operating results were regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer. As such, each of the five operating group was determined to be an “operating segment” for financial reporting purposes for the year ended March 31, 2003. The five operating groups also collaborated with branches and offices that are located in Japan and overseas countries and with overseas trading subsidiaries in planning and executing their strategies for products or regions. For the year ended March 31, 2003, the branches, offices and overseas trading subsidiaries were separate operating units, which were delegated the responsibilities of managing the businesses of their regions as the centers of each particular regional strategy and operate diversified businesses together with their subsidiaries and associated companies in collaboration with the five operating groups. Therefore, a discrete set of financial information was also available for each of the regional operating units without any overlap with the financial information of each of the five products and services based operating groups. The operating results of each of our regional operating units were regularly reviewed by the Chief 21 Table of Contents Executive Officer independent of the operating results of each of the five products and services based operating groups, and accordingly, each regional operating unit was also determined to be an “operating segment” for financial reporting purposes. Thus, for the year ended March 31, 2003, our operating segments were comprised of products and services focused operating segments and region-focused operating segments. Our reportable operating segments as of March 31, 2003 were comprised of those listed below: • Our five products and services focused operating segments were Metal Products & Minerals; Machinery, Electronics & Information; Chemical; Energy; and Consumer Products & Services; and • Our four region-focused operating segments were Domestic Branches and Offices; Americas; Europe; and Other Overseas Areas. Each of the five products and services based operating groups in our Head Office have business units. The business units, which are further divided into specialized divisions, provide more focused products and services. Abolishment of the Five Major Operating Groups Structure for the Year Ended March 31, 2004 We abolished the Five Major Operating Groups Structure on April 1, 2003, to further increase operational efficiency with a system in which the Chief Operating Officer of each of the 18 business units directly reports the unit’s operating results to the Chief Executive Officer based on the unit’s discrete set of financial information. Therefore, for the year ended March 31, 2004, each of the 18 business units was determined to be an “operating segment” for financial reporting purposes. Despite this reorganization, there was no change in our product and service focused business activities for the year ended March 31, 2004. Accordingly, as a result of the aggregation of our operating segments (i.e., the 18 business units) based on the nature of each of the 18 business units’ products, services and other criteria, our products and services based reportable segments consisted of the same five reportable segments as for the year ended March 31, 2003. There was no reorganization with respect to our four region-focused reportable operating segments for the year ended March 31, 2004. Each of our region-focused reportable operating segments still consisted of region-specific branches, offices and overseas trading subsidiaries, that remain independent from the five product and service focused reportable operating segments in the Head Office. As such, despite the restructuring, for the year ended March 31, 2004, we had the same nine reportable operating segments which consisted of five products and services focused reportable operating segments and four region-focused reportable operating segments as was the case for the year ended March 31, 2003. Reorganization of Business Units in the Head Office and Change in the Reportable Segments for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Effective April 1, 2004, with the aim of improving operating efficiency and further facilitating our exploration of global business opportunities, the business units in the Head Office were reorganized as below: • The Domestic Branches and Offices Segment was abolished. As a result, the operating results previously reported by the Domestic Branches and Offices Segment are now reviewed by each of Chief Operating Officers of the related business units in the Head Office based on the categories of their products and services. • Reorganizations of the 18 business units were implemented whereby we integrated business units within the same five products and services focused reportable operating segments. For example, we combined the former Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit and the former Non-Ferrous Metals Unit into the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit. Additionally, media related businesses such as broadcasting and content businesses previously included in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment were transferred to the Consumer Products & Services Segment. Furthermore, we introduced two new business units whose business activities 22 Table of Contents were in most cases previously reported in “All Other” as businesses handled outside the five products and services based reportable segments. The first is the Transportation Logistics Business Unit which engages in logistics services. The other is the Financial Markets Business Unit which engages in financial services, including businesses previously handled in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, such as commodity trading. As a result, the Transportation Logistics Business Unit and the Financial Markets Business Unit have comprised a new reportable segment, the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. Thus, for the year ended March 31, 2005, we had nine reportable operating segments which consisted of six products and services focused reportable operating segments and three region-focused reportable operating segments listed as below: • Our six products and services focused operating segments were: Metal Products & Minerals; Machinery, Electronics & Information; Chemical; Energy; Consumer Products & Services; and Logistics & Financial Markets. • Our three region-focused operating segments were: Americas; Europe; and Other Overseas Areas. Gross Profit, Operating Income (Loss) and Net Income (Loss) by reportable operating segment for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows(1)(2)(3)(4)(5): Gross Profit: In Billions, Except Percentages Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Metal Products & Minerals ¥ 121.4 16.7 % ¥ 77.0 12.5 % ¥ 71.5 12.6 % Machinery, Electronics & Information 137.3 18.9 128.7 21.0 121.1 21.3 Chemical 87.1 12.0 91.1 14.8 69.3 12.2 Energy 72.6 10.0 54.6 8.9 53.8 9.4 Consumer Products & Services 152.6 21.0 135.9 22.1 122.6 21.5 Logistics & Financial Markets 46.7 6.4 32.3 5.3 33.1 5.8 Americas 49.9 6.9 40.7 6.6 44.6 7.8 Europe 20.7 2.9 20.0 3.3 22.5 4.0 Other Overseas Areas 25.8 3.6 24.1 3.9 23.5 4.1 All Other 12.3 1.7 10.4 1.7 10.6 1.9 Adjustments and Eliminations (0.6 ) (0.1 ) (0.9 ) (0.1 ) (3.0 ) (0.6 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 725.8 100.0 % ¥ 613.9 100.0 % ¥ 569.6 100.0 % 23 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss)*: In Billions, Except Percentages Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Metal Products & Minerals ¥ 68.1 34.4 % ¥ 28.7 22.6 % ¥ 24.7 24.2 % Machinery, Electronics & Information 31.4 15.9 29.4 23.2 14.1 13.8 Chemical 24.6 12.4 31.4 24.8 18.3 18.0 Energy 35.5 17.9 21.7 17.1 25.7 25.2 Consumer Products & Services 32.0 16.2 23.3 18.4 21.2 20.8 Logistics & Financial Markets 18.5 9.3 10.4 8.2 10.9 10.7 Americas 14.7 7.4 8.5 6.7 9.5 9.3 Europe 2.4 1.2 3.0 2.4 4.2 4.1 Other Overseas Areas 8.2 4.1 6.6 5.2 7.6 7.5 All Other (0.5 ) (0.2 ) (1.9 ) (1.5 ) (1.8 ) (1.8 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (36.9 ) (18.6 ) (34.3 ) (27.1 ) (32.5 ) (31.8 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 198.0 100.0 % ¥ 126.8 100.0 % ¥ 101.9 100.0 % * Operating income (loss) reflects our (a) Gross Profit, (b) Selling, general and administrative expenses, (c) Provision for doubtful receivables and (d) Government grant for transfer of substitutional portion of EPF, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. Net Income (Loss): In Billions, Except Percentages Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Metal Products & Minerals ¥ 47.0 38.8 % ¥ 24.2 35.4 % ¥ 16.1 51.8 % Machinery, Electronics & Information 26.4 21.8 5.9 8.6 (9.2 ) (29.6 ) Chemical (6.9 ) (5.7 ) 11.4 16.7 (3.6 ) (11.6 ) Energy 42.8 35.3 24.4 35.7 23.0 74.0 Consumer Products & Services 16.9 14.0 18.9 27.6 9.6 30.9 Logistics & Financial Markets 11.8 9.7 4.8 7.0 4.7 15.1 Americas 12.3 10.2 0.2 0.3 3.3 10.5 Europe 2.9 2.4 0.7 1.0 2.8 9.0 Other Overseas Areas 13.8 11.4 10.4 15.2 8.6 27.7 All Other 4.4 3.7 1.9 2.8 6.9 22.2 Adjustments and Eliminations (50.3 ) (41.6 ) (34.4 ) (50.3 ) (31.1 ) (100.0 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 121.1 100.0 % ¥ 68.4 100.0 % ¥ 31.1 100.0 % 24 Table of Contents Notes: (1) The figures of “Consolidated Total” for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been reclassified to conform to the change in current year presentation for discontinued operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” (2) “All Other” includes business activities which primarily provide services, such as development and sales of systems, financing services, and operations services to external customers, and/or to us and associated companies. (3) Net loss of “Adjustments and Eliminations” includes income and expense items that are not allocated to specific reportable operating segments, such as certain expenses of the corporate departments, and eliminations of intersegment transactions. (4) Transfers between operating segments are made at cost plus a markup. (5) Starting from the year ended March 31, 2005, we changed the presentation of financing revenues and costs of certain subsidiaries engaged mainly in external consumer financing, which were formerly reported as interest expense, net of interest income. In relation to this change, the figures of gross profit and operating income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. 25 Table of Contents Metal Products & Minerals Segment The Metal Products & Minerals Segment is engaged in the overseas development and raw material trading of iron, steel and non-ferrous metals, and in the domestic and global manufacturing, sale and trading of iron, steel and non-ferrous metal products. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥121.4 billion or 16.7% and ¥47.0 billion or 38.8% of our consolidated total, respectively. This segment is composed of the Iron & Steel Products Business Unit and the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit, and has 45 subsidiaries including: • in the Iron & Steel Products Business Unit, Mitsui Bussan Construction Materials Co., Ltd. (Japan), Tsuda Corporation (Japan), Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. (Singapore); and • in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit, Mitsui Bussan Raw Materials Development Corp. (Japan), Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Sesa Goa Limited (India), Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) and Mitalco Inc. (the Unites States). This segment has 48 associated companies including: • in the Iron & Steel Products Business Unit, Nippon Steel Trading Co., Ltd. (Japan), Shanghai Bao-Mit Steel Distribution Co., Ltd. (China) and Thai Tinplate Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (Thailand); and • in the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit, Valepar S.A. (Brazil) and BHP Mitsui Coal Pty., Ltd. (Australia). An overview of each business unit within the segment is provided as follows: Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Iron and steel products are used in a wide range of industries including the automobile, electronics, transportation, construction and energy sectors. We have served our customers in these industries worldwide and provided support services for Japanese steel mills. Through the collaboration with 24 subsidiaries and 26 associated companies owned by this business unit, the Iron & Steel Products Business Unit conducts manufacturing, trading, marketing, processing and distribution of: • steel sheet for automobile and electric appliances, steel plates for shipbuilding and heavy electric machinery, galvanized steel products and tin material and products; • steel products for oil and gas projects including oil well tube and line pipe; • wire rod, specialty steel and bearing; • steel bars and other steel construction materials; and • semi-finished items including steel slabs to be processed into steel plates and steel billets to be processed into steel bars and wire rods. To extend the above-mentioned activities, this business unit has also made investments in subsidiaries and associated companies including coil centers as bases for processing and distribution, electrical furnace steel makers as manufacturing bases and steel product trading companies. In the steel products business, both manufacturers and users are large-scale and sophisticated organizations. As simple intermediation between these entities no longer serves their needs, the business unit has developed its services based on supply chain management (“SCM”) by making use of IT and 26 Table of Contents logistics expertise. Through working closely with manufacturers and users, we optimize distribution and inventory control, thus sharing with customers the benefit of associated cost reductions. For example: • We have recently established steel service centers, galvanized steel plants and tin-plating facilities at our subsidiaries and/or joint ventures with Japanese and overseas business partners in order to meet the rising demand from manufacturers of automobiles, electric appliances and heavy electric machinery that have transplanted their production centers to the United States, Southeast Asia and China. In 2002, we participated in Shanghai Bao-Mit Steel Distribution Co., Ltd. (China), a joint venture with Shanghai Baosteel Group Corporation, a Chinese iron and steel manufacturing company, in order to build a network of steel products service centers in China. Through this associated company, we have been promoting the integration of service centers within China in order to improve operational efficiency, and we are actively pursuing additional investments. • We frequently draw upon the unit’s logistics expertise in delivering a wide range materials and products in large volume under optimized schedule along with expertise in project financing. We also take advantage of the business relationships and marketing channels of other business units in the fields of energy, industrial plants, shipping and machinery. This enabled us to be involved in various industrial projects including the construction of oil and gas pipeline projects such as the West-East Natural Gas Pipeline project in China and the steel structure for the Bangkok Second International Airport Terminal. During the year ended March 31, 2004, we acquired Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. (Singapore), a wholesaler of steel products. This acquisition was made with the aim to expand global wholesale operations in the rapidly growing steel products markets in Asia. As mentioned above, the businesses of the Iron & Steel Products Business Unit are highly sensitive to worldwide demand of steel products, especially in Asia including China. At the same time, this business unit concentrates on achieving low-cost operations in domestic market which is already mature through spin-off and other business reorganizations. In addition, we have been strengthening our ties with domestic electrical furnace steel makers and wholesalers through collaboration in sales of products, procurement of raw materials and equity investment. Our major competitors in Japan and overseas are other Japanese trading companies. In their efforts to achieve low-cost operations through economy of scale, some of our competitors have consolidated and established joint ventures, such as Marubeni-Itochu Steel Inc. and Metal One Corporation. In order to remain competitive as well as pursue our strategic goals, we utilize the Iron & Steel Products Business Promotion Division which specializes in making investments in steel-related enterprises in response to the need for joint investment amongst steel users and steel manufacturers in Japan and overseas and with the aim of participating in the development of new products. Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit and the former Non-Ferrous Metals Unit were combined to begin operations as the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit. This combination has allowed us to pursue our strategic goals to both integrate and expand our overseas acquisition network of iron and steel raw materials and non-ferrous mineral interests. Through collaboration with the 21 subsidiaries and 22 associated companies owned by this business unit, the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit is engaged in various business activities including: • trading, investment, logistics management and transportation services related to iron and steel raw materials, such as iron ore, coal, steel scrap, ferro-alloys and other minerals; and • trading, investment, transportation and processing of non-ferrous metal ores and ingots such as: copper, lead, zinc, tin, nickel, aluminum, magnesium, cobalt, titanium, other non-ferrous metals; sales and marketing of semi-fabricated non-ferrous products such as construction materials; and agent activities in the nuclear fuel import business. 27 Table of Contents In iron and steel raw materials field, this business unit acts as an agent for various major Japanese steel makers for their procurement of iron ore, coal, steel scrap and ferro-alloys. For example, we provide Japanese steel makers with various services in their negotiation and execution of iron and steel raw material procurement contracts as well as information related to worldwide suppliers of iron and steel raw materials obtained through our overseas network. In response to the global trend of eliminating intermediaries with respect to trading activities, we are expanding and promoting our investment and participation in mining projects in alliances with mining companies worldwide. We participate in joint ventures with various iron ore and coal mining companies located in Australia, Brazil and India in order to secure stable supplies of those materials. For example: • In August 2002, we completed the construction of the West Angelas iron ore mine in Australia (as a part of the Robe River Joint Venture with Rio Tinto), which began shipments of iron ore to customers worldwide. In Australia, we also have a participating interest in Mount Newman Joint Venture and other joint ventures with BHP Billiton. • In September 2003, we purchased a 15% ownership interest (or 18.24% in terms of voting shares as of March 31, 2005), of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), the controlling shareholder of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”) in Brazil. CVRD is a mining enterprise with operations that include mining of iron ore and other raw non-ferrous metals. • We own a 51% interest in Sesa Goa Limited (India), which produces iron ore and coke in India. • In April 2002, we entered into a strategic alliance with Anglo American Plc to develop the Moura and German Creek coalmines in Australia, which provides us with a solid foundation for future growth in the coal business. We also have participating interests in other coal mining joint ventures including South Walker Creek Joint Venture and Bengalla Joint Venture with BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, respectively. We are also engaged in steel scrap stock inventory operations in the West Coast of the United States. Reflecting the demand growth, especially from Asia, this steel scrap export terminal has been getting increasingly important, which is owned and operated by Pacific Coast Recycling, LLC. Pacific Coast Recycling, LLC is wholly owned by our subsidiary Raw Materials Development Co. (the United States). The revenues from mineral producing activities accounts for a significant portion of this business unit. The table below sets forth the break down of revenues of the Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit. Revenues Billions of Yen Revenues from Sales Revenues from Sales of Products of Services Commissions and Revenues from Mineral Revenues from Sales of Trading Margins on Years Ended March 31, Producing Activities Other Products(*) Intermediary Services Total Revenues 2005 ¥ 88.0 ¥ 134.3 ¥ 18.5 ¥ 240.8 2004 49.9 136.4 16.9 203.2 2003 34.7 113.7 15.6 164.0 (*) Revenues from sales of other products mainly consist of sales of scrap metals and non-ferrous metals such as copper and aluminum. We have entered into new joint venture projects to meet the increasing demand for iron and steel raw materials in Japan and abroad. For example, in January 2003, we established POSCO Terminal Co., Ltd., a joint venture with POSCO (a steel maker in Republic of Korea), whereby providing logistics services related to transactions involving iron and steel raw materials for our various customers in Asia. We are also enhancing our involvement in the recycling business and the greenhouse gas emission reduction trading business. 28 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on our investments in iron ore and coal resource projects. In September 2003, we sold our interest in Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A., which had been our associated company until the year ended March 31, 2003. Accordingly, in the table below, we did not include mining information attributable to Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. For information on our production and reserve amounts in connection with our mining activities, See “Item 4.D. Property, Plants and Equipment — Mining Activities.” IRON ORE Mitsui’s Other Major Participants Joint Venture or Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Name of Percentage of and Their Percentages of Investee(1) Associated Company(2) Mines(3) Location Ownership Ownership Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Pannawonica Pilbara Region, 33.00% Rio Tinto 53.00% Development Pty. Ltd. West Angelas Western Australia Nippon Steel 10.50% Sumitomo Metal Industries 3.50% Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Mount Whaleback Pilbara Region, Western Australia 7.00% BHP Billiton Itochu 85.00% 8.00% Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Marillana Creek Pilbara Region, Western Australia 7.00% BHP Billiton Itochu 85.00% 8.00% Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Area C Pilbara Region, Western Australia 7.00% BHP Billiton Itochu 85.00% 8.00% Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited Codli Sonshi Goa, India 51.00% (publicly listed company) Chitrandurga Hopset Karnataka, India COAL Mitsui’s Other Major Participants Joint Venture or Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Name of Percentage of and Their Percentages of Investee(1) Associated Company(2) Mines(3) Location Ownership Ownership BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Riverside South Walker Creek Queensland, Australia 20.00% BHP Billiton 80.00% Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Bengalla New South Wales, Australia 10.00% Rio Tinto Wesfarmers Taiwan Power 40.00% 40.00% 10.00% Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Kestrel Queensland, Australia 20.00% Rio Tinto 80.00% Moura Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Moura Queensland, Australia 49.00% Anglo American 51.00% German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. German Creek Queensland, Australia 30.00% Anglo American 70.00% (1) The term “Investee” refers only to Sesa Goa Limited and BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. (2) “Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company” indicates names of the companies through which we own our interests in the joint ventures or the investee. Sesa Goa Limited is a Mitsui’s subsidiary in which it directly owns a 51% voting share. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. is a Mitsui’s associated company in which it directly owns a 20% voting share. 29 Table of Contents (3) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (4) In addition to the above-mentioned coal mining projects, through Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd., we have small interests in two projects in Australia mainly promoted by Anglo American, namely, Moranbah North Joint Venture in Queensland and Drayton Joint Venture in New South Wales. Our percentage of ownership and annual production capacity of Moranbah North Joint Venture and Drayton Joint Venture are 4.75%, 3.9 million tons and 3.83%, 5.1 million tons, respectively. In non-ferrous metals field, we have been engaged in trading of copper, nickel, cobalt, aluminum ingots and other non-ferrous metal materials. We are also expanding and promoting our investments and participation in various non-ferrous metals mining and smelting projects to secure stable sources of supply. For example: • We participate in Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile), a copper mine development company, in which we hold a 7.43% interest. The project, which commenced its commercial production in 1998, has been developed jointly with Anglo American Plc and Falconbridge Ltd. and has annual production capacity of about 500,000 tons of copper per annum. In addition, we have a 1.25% interest in Minera Los Pelambres in Chile whose production capacity is about 360,000 tons of copper per annum. • We own an undivided interest in both Eastalco and Intalco, aluminum smelting companies in the United States, providing access to 147,000 tons of aluminum ingots annually. Combining the metal taken from these companies with other sources, we have the capability to supply 220,000 tons of aluminum ingots annually. Those primary aluminum ingots are sold to the customers in Japan and the United States. • We participated in a nickel-cobalt mining and refining project at Rio Tuba area in the Republic of Philippines which has been developed jointly with Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd., Sojitz Corporation (formerly Nissho Iwai Corporation) and a local partner. This project is expected to produce nickel-cobalt mixed sulfide through a high-pressure acid leaching process, an advanced processing technology for nickel production. In addition, in April 2005, we, jointly with Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd., concluded an agreement for participation in the Goro Nickel Development Project in New Caledonia, which had been promoted by Inco Limited. 30 Table of Contents Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment The Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment consists of three business units as follows: • Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit; • Machinery Business Unit; and • Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥137.3 billion or 18.9% and ¥26.4 billion or 21.8% of our consolidated total, respectively. Effective April 1, 2004, the consumer-oriented and media-related businesses which had been included in the former Information Business Unit were transferred to a newly established Consumer Service Business Unit in the Consumer Products & Services Segment. The Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment are engaged in, among other things, the following businesses: manufacturing, global marketing and sales, financing, leasing and services involving electric machinery, industrial plants and systems, transportation equipment and systems, construction equipment, telecommunication systems, motor vehicles, marine and aerospace systems. This segment is also involved in IT and electronics related solutions business, marketing and sales of IT and electronics related products, components and materials, software and various services. Services provided by each of our business units are sold primarily to industrial customers, including original equipment manufacturers, industrial end users, utility companies, construction companies and distributors. While traditional trading and sales activities continue to be important to the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, the business units in this segment are also diversifying their business operations in response to changing global market demands. In infrastructure projects, for example, not only are we engaged in the sale of equipment used for such projects, but we are now beginning to participate in potential projects from the early stages whereby we: • assess the commercial and technical feasibility of the projects; • design projects utilizing our financial, legal and industrial skills; • select and invite capable partners; and • arrange and/or assist the syndication of financing. Moreover, we have also been increasing our equity investments in some projects, especially in power generation projects in the Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit. With respect to our IT business, rapid innovations in technology and corresponding changes in the technology market have resulted in new business opportunities. As such, we are concentrating on value-added services to our customers and satisfying emerging market needs in the business domains such as network integration and systems integration services; and mobile communication business. The Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment holds 90 subsidiaries such as Mitsui Bussan Plant & Project Corp. (Japan), Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. (the United States) in the Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit; Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. (Liberia), Toyota Chile S.A. (Chile), Mitsui Automotive Europe B.V. (Netherlands), Tombo Aviation Inc. (the United States) in the Machinery Business Unit: and Telepark Corp. (Japan), NextCom K.K. (Japan), TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan) and Xion Electronics, Inc. (Japan) in the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. Additionally it has 77 associated companies such as P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia), Shin Nippon Air Technologies Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit; Komatsu Australia Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Kioritz Corporation (Japan) and Toyota Canada Inc. (Canada) in the Machinery Business Unit; and Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) in the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. 31 Table of Contents Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Telecommunications, Transportation & Industrial Systems Business Unit was abolished and the transportation businesses which had been included in the unit were transferred to the Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit. The business activities of the Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit together with 30 subsidiaries and 24 associated companies cover a wide range of involvement in project implementation and related services, including: • energy related projects such as oil and gas development projects, oil refineries, LNG manufacturing facilities, and pipelines; • electric power projects such as power plants, power transmission and substation facilities; • water supply projects such as desalination plant, wastewater processing facilities and water supply and sewerage facilities; • transportation related business such as railway rolling stock and railway facilities and systems; • social infrastructure projects such as construction of airport, port facilities, road and other public facilities; • basic industry projects such as iron, non-ferrous metals, chemical plants; and. • environment-related projects such as waste disposal and recycling plants. We are undertaking a number of projects that may stimulate economic growth mainly in developing countries and countries rich in natural resources. We focus on the needs of those countries and apply our project engineering capabilities and expert knowledge in financing, logistics, taxation and legal affairs, so as to devise optimal solutions that address complex and multifaceted issues that those nations are facing. This business unit often arranges financing for projects by international financial institutions and export credit agencies worldwide. Moreover, it sometimes provides loans or issues guarantees on behalf of the project owners. The following are examples of the types of projects and our activities where this unit renders services mainly as an agent in securing the contract, arranging financing and executing the contract: • In the Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”) and the Middle East, we were engaged in the structuring and the arrangement of debt and equity project financing for various natural gas energy projects. Together with export credit agencies and commercial banks, we also extended loans to project participants. • We acted as the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (“EPC”) contractor for various oil and gas production projects and for the construction of infrastructure facilities including power plants and petrochemical plants whereby we procured manufacturing equipment from Japanese and overseas subcontractors. • For gas pipeline projects such as Cabiunas and Malhas which were promoted by Petrobras in Brazil, we were engaged in the structuring and the arrangement of debt, equity and lease financing. We also extended loans to the project participants. • In a lead-free gasoline production project in Indonesia known as the Blue Sky Project, we were engaged in the structuring and the arrangement of debt and equity project financings. We also extended loans to the project participants. • As the primary EPC contractor, we are constructing the 790 megawatt Council Bluffs Energy Center Unit 4 coal fired power plant in Iowa, the United States, whereby we have subcontracted to Japanese and the United States subcontractors. 32 Table of Contents • For the Taiwan High Speed Rail project, we are a commercial leader of a consortium consisting of Japanese railway car manufacturers and general trading companies, which supplied rolling stock and transportation facilities. The Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit is increasing activities which facilitate the implementation of projects. These activities go beyond the conventional EPC approach of acting as an intermediary between project owners and sub-contractors on a back-to-back base. Instead, these activities often involve arrangement of sophisticated financing schemes, risk sharing through equity participation and operation and maintenance of plant and facilities after their construction completion. Based on this concept, the unit is promoting investments in certain related infrastructure projects including the acquisition of independent power producer (“IPP”) overseas. For example: • In December 2004, we, together with International Power plc, completed the acquisition of the international power generation portfolio (nine power plants in total 4,514 megawatt as of March 2005) of MEC International BV, a Dutch holding company owned by Edison Mission Energy, and in July 2005 acquired additionally the Saltend 1,200 megawatt combined cycle power plant from Calpine Corporation. We established IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) jointly with International Power plc to hold and manage these power generation businesses; • We have formed a joint venture with Calpine Corporation to construct, own and operate the 1,005 megawatt combined cycle power plants called Greenfield Energy Center which has secured a 20 year Clean Energy Supply contract with Ontario Power Authority of Ontario, Canada; and • We own a 36.324% interest in P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia), an Indonesian power producer, which owns a 1,230 megawatt coal fired power plant in East Java, Indonesia. P.T. Paiton Energy sells electricity to P.T. Perusahaan Listrik Negara, an electric utility company owned by the Indonesian government, under a power purchase agreement. In December 2002, an amendment to the original power purchase agreement became effective, thereby resolving a series of disputes between P.T. Paiton Energy and P.T. Perusahaan Listrik Negara, which were caused in large part by the regional financial crisis in Asia, particularly, in Indonesia in 1997. Reflecting these developments, the combined power generation capacities for Mitsui’s equity share in various power projects as of the end of August 2005 in operation and under construction were 2,515 megawatt and 801 megawatt, respectively. As well as the above-mentioned projects, these power generation capacities included those of Umm Al Nar in the United Arab Emirates, Loy Yang A and Tarong North Power Station in Australia and Valladolid III in Mexico. In other types of projects, in January 2005, Mitsui acquired a 25% interest in the LNG terminal in Altamira, Mexico, which had been owned by Royal Dutch Shell (75%) and Total (25%). The facility is expected to start operations in late 2006, supplying up to 5 billion cubic meters per annum of natural gas for 15 years under a contract with Comisión Federal de Electricidad, a state power company. Environmental issues are world concerns. Our initiatives in this field include creating and implementing recycling systems for automobiles, electric appliances and plastic bottles made from polyethylene terephthalate. In our overseas markets, we are engaged in the construction of waste processing facilities and other environment-related projects. Our major competitors include other Japanese general trading companies, international financial institutions, global engineering companies and construction companies. Machinery Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, industrial system businesses formerly included in the former Telecommunications, Transportation & Industrial Systems Business Unit were transferred to the Machinery Business Unit. 33 Table of Contents The Machinery Business Unit, together with 42 subsidiaries and 41 associated companies, is engaged in the following business activities: • import and export, assembly and manufacturing, distribution and dealership of motor vehicles, motor cycles and their parts; retail finance and automobile auction business; • sales and trading of tanker, LNG carrier, container vessel, cargo vessel; operation of own vessel; chartering vessel; and ocean vessel related finance; • trading of aircraft and helicopter, leasing of aircraft, and trading of other products such as defense related equipment, aerospace system and aircraft engine; and • trading of industrial machinery including mining and construction equipment, production equipment and machining tool. Motor vehicles business is a major part of operations in this business unit. This business unit has a long track record of exporting and marketing Japanese automobiles and has developed networks of our subsidiaries and associated companies as import wholesalers, dealers and assembler for Japanese vehicles in many regions of the world. For example, we have been exporting Toyota, Subaru and motor vehicles of other Japanese manufacturers to various countries worldwide including Canada (Toyota), Chile (Toyota), Peru (Toyota), Italy (Subaru), Germany (Subaru and Yamaha), Thailand (Hino) and Malaysia (Daihatsu). In recent years, the relocation of Japan’s automobile production centers from the domestic market to other countries has been accelerated, and we have diversified our activities with the strategic allocation of our financial and human resources to prioritized areas of our motor vehicles business worldwide, such as logistics service of manufacturing components, retail operations, retail finance and auction businesses. For example: • We have operated a subsidiary P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia), a retail finance company for Yamaha motorcycles since 1997; • We have been handling the logistics operations of automobile parts for Toyota’s manufacturing operations in North America and Europe; • We have increased our ownership in United Auto Group, Inc. (“UAG”), an automobile dealership group in the United States, to about 15.5% and by combining what we learned from our involvement in UAG with our knowledge of the global market, we continue to explore other opportunities to expand into retail dealership operations in developing market such as Russia, China and India; and • We have also invested in an auction business for used cars as a business partner of Japan Automobile Auction, Inc. (“J.A.A.”), an auction trader in Japan. In order to establish ourselves in the automobile auction business, together with J.A.A., we established an automobile auction joint venture company in Germany. Our vessel and marine project related activities include marketing newly built commercial vessels to ship owners and operators in Japan and overseas, operating vessels, acting as a broker for the sale and purchase of second hand vessels and for chartering vessels, and marketing equipment for vessels to shipbuilding companies. Along with these operations, we are engaged in energy-related marine projects, including the joint ownership and operation of Floating Storage and Offloading (“FSO”) and Floating Production Storage and Offloading (“FPSO”) facilities, and LNG vessels. In addition, we arrange various types of financing for our customers such as syndicated loans involving international financial institutions, export credit agencies and other financial institutions for large scale transactions. We also provide direct loans to some of our clients. In connection with our other business activities, we own and operate commercial vessels. 34 Table of Contents In our aerospace systems related activities, we provide and arrange operating leases and finance leases to various airlines worldwide and are engaged in the sale and purchase of aircraft through our subsidiaries Tombo Aviation Inc. (the United States) and Tombo Capital Corporation (Japan). As an agent in Japan for Airbus, we are engaged in marketing Airbus aircraft, including the A380 super jumbo, to Japanese airlines. Along with these activities, our subsidiary Mitsui Bussan Aerospace Co., Ltd. (Japan) represents Bell Helicopter and, to date, has sold a total of 1,400 units in Japan. We are actively introducing and marketing new types of aircraft, including tiltrotor types. With respect to distribution activities in our industrial system business, we are engaged in the distribution of construction machinery and mining equipment such as dump trucks and hydraulic shovels through Komatsu Australia Pty Ltd. (Australia), our associated company acquired in 2001, is one of important operation in this field. Furthermore, we are also pursuing construction machinery and mining equipment distribution in other regions such as North and South America. We are also actively engaged in export of high-precision machine tools and manufacturing equipment as well as control systems. The other important business is distribution of outdoor power equipment and utility equipment in North America. The business sectors in which the above divisions are engaged are highly competitive. Competitors include, but are not limited to, other Japanese general trading companies, international financial institutions and manufacturers. Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Information Business Unit and the former Electronics Business Unit were combined to begin operations as the Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit. The Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit is involved in information technology services and solutions. These are delivered through the unit’s 18 subsidiaries and 12 associated companies established by products and services in the following five major fields: • network and systems integration (“NI/ SI”) businesses; • business process outsourcing services; • mobile communication businesses; • semiconductors related businesses; and • display related businesses. The major activities in the above-mentioned business areas of this unit are as follows: • We provide integrated hardware and software solutions such as system building, network infrastructure devices, enterprise applications and network security service. These solutions are provided through subsidiaries and associated companies such as NextCom K.K. (Japan) and Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan). In December 2004, NextCom K.K., a formerly associated company, BSI Co., Ltd., a software development and marketing subsidiary, and ADAM NET Ltd., a data telecommunications equipment marketing subsidiary, merged to seek synergies of comprehensive information technology services. NextCom K.K. remains as the surviving company among them and became a subsidiary. For more information, see Note 3, “BUSINESS COMBINATIONS,” to our consolidated financial statements. Nihon Unisys, Ltd. is a publicly listed company in Japan in which Mitsui and Unisys Corporation in the United States hold a 28.91% each of voting stocks as of March 31, 2005; • We are focusing on business process outsourcing services as the crucial business fields, through our subsidiary TOYO Officemation, Inc. (Japan). While it has been engaged in distribution of information processing devices such as optical character reader (“OCR”) and information input device. Recently, it has focused on enterprise information management such as customer information input, management and operation; 35 Table of Contents • We are promoting various mobile communication businesses through alliances with domestic cell phone service providers and manufacturers. In 1990s we had established three regional companies in Japan that were engaged in sales agency of telecommunications line and related businesses. They were consolidated in one company as Mitsui & Associates Telepark Corporation (Japan) in April 2001 that changed corporate name as Telepark Corp. (Japan) in October 2004. Telepark Corp. is one of the major distributors of cell phones in Japan and sold 3.1 million cell phones for the year ended March 31, 2005. Telepark Corp. went public in Japan in April 2004; • While Bussan Microelectronics Corp. had been our core semiconductor trading subsidiary, we acquired another trading company, TEKSEL Co., Ltd., to broaden our customer base and product portfolio in 2002. To maximize synergies of the combined operations, in 2002 we established Xion Holdings, Inc.(*) (Japan) as a holding company for these two subsidiaries. And in 2004 in partnership with World Peace Group, a large scale distributor of electronic components and computer products who has its headquarter in Taipei and has various marketing channels in Asian countries, we established TEKSEL WPG Ltd. (Hong Kong) in order to provide semiconductor related products and services mainly for Japanese customers who are shifting their production to China; and • The shift of electronic device production to China has intensified since 2002, prompting our Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit to allocate additional human and capital resources to bolster our Chinese business. We concluded a broad strategic partnership agreement with SVA (GROUP) CO., LTD., a Chinese electronics manufacturer, and set up a joint venture company in Shanghai to market the strategic products of SVA (GROUP) CO., LTD. in China and worldwide. Our unit is dependent on the operating results of our subsidiaries and associated companies, most of which are located in Japan, where technological development is rapid and competition is fierce. We also rely on our investments in overseas technology, business models and business partners, which enable us to provide competitive services and solutions in the domestic market. Thus, considerable part of this business unit’s function involves business incubation for of IT related products and services. Chemical Segment The operations of our Chemical Segment include production, trading and development of chemical products both in Japan and overseas. We also promote development of new technologies in the fields of nanotechnology and biotechnology. Gross profit and net loss for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥87.1 billion or 12.0% of our consolidated total gross profit and ¥6.9 billion loss, respectively. The Chemical Segment consists of Organic Chemicals Business Unit and Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit. The Chemical Segment has 49 subsidiaries including Novus International, Inc. (the United States), P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia), Mitsui Bussan Solvent & Coating Co., Ltd. (Japan) in Organic Chemicals Business Unit and Nippon Trading Co., Ltd.(Japan), Daito Chemical Co., Ltd. (Japan) at Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit, and 52 associated companies such as Honshu Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Agro Kanesho Co., Ltd. (Japan) at Organic Chemicals Business Unit and Advanced Composites Inc. (the United States) in Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit. Effective April 1, 2004, the business units in this segment were reorganized, and these changes are referred to in the following discussion of each business unit. (*) Xion Holdings, Inc. changed its corporate name to Xion Electronics, Inc. in January 2005. 36 Table of Contents Organic Chemicals Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Performance Chemicals Unit and the former Petrochemicals Unit were integrated into a single business unit named the Organic Chemical Business Unit. Together with 25 subsidiaries and 24 associated companies, the Organic Chemicals Business Unit is engaged in sales, trade and production of following commodities and related activities: • petrochemical products such as Olefins, Aromatics, Styrene Monomer, Vinyl Chloride Monomer; • synthetic fiber intermediates such as Para-Xylene, Terephthalic Acid, Ethylene Glycol, Acrylonitrile; • industrial chemicals such as Phenol, Bis-Phenols, Acetone, Acetic Acid; • Methanol and Ammonia; • specialty chemicals such as polyurethane raw materials, detergent intermediates, oleo chemicals, functional dyes and natural chemicals; • life science products such as pharmaceutical products and intermediates, feed additives, food ingredients and development of biotechnology business; • agriscience products such as agricultural chemicals and intermediates, natural agricultural chemicals and biological agricultural chemicals; and • fertilizer and its raw materials including phosphate and promotion of greenery, agriculture and environmental business. In petrochemical products areas, the unit’s main activities involve trading of the above-mentioned products in Japan and worldwide through business relationships with manufacturers and customers such as Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., Toray Industries, Inc., Tosoh Corporation, The Dow Chemical Company, BP p.l.c., and Bayer Aktiengesellschaft. We have invested in manufacturing facilities and logistic facilities such as tank terminals in Houston, the United States; Ningbo, China; Bangkok, Thailand; Johor, Malaysia; and Merak, Indonesia. In addition, we have about 20% equity share in the joint venture of International Methanol Company in Saudi Arabia which commenced commercial operation with a production capacity of 1 million ton per annum of methanol at the end of 2004 and have an ammonia producing subsidiary P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak (Indonesia) which has a production capacity of 0.7 million ton per annum of Ammonia. We have also invested in shipping companies in Japan, primarily in our subsidiary, Daiichi Tanker Co., Ltd. (Japan) which has special type chemical tanker fleets. For several years, the petrochemical industry has seen fierce international competition, and major Japanese petrochemical manufacturers have shifted their production to Asian countries to expand their activities in growing Asian market. This unit provides global and integrated logistics services to such Japanese and overseas petrochemical companies including operations by our own chemical tankers. This business unit has been successful in earning revenues by increasing market shares in certain products such as Olefins and Styrene Monomer. Moreover, the steady growth of demand for petrochemicals in the world, especially in China and other Asian countries is driving earnings for this unit. On the other hand, for the year ended March 31, 2003, the unit discontinued operations at North American petrochemical manufacturing subsidiaries Trans Pacific Glycols Inc. and Pacific Ammonia Inc., which suffered from weak market conditions and high natural gas costs in North America. For more information, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS,” to our consolidated financial statements. During the past several years, most worldwide petrochemical companies have been struggling to survive through drastic restructurings which include the reorganization of their sales structures and mergers and acquisitions. However, despite the difficult environment for participants in the petrochemical market, we believe that we remain competitive with other Japanese general trading companies and plan to strengthen our market position by expanding our trade volume and market share. Our sales channels to 37 Table of Contents various customers in diverse geographic areas enable us to make geographical and/or time swap arrangements. Our global logistics services network, which we consider to be better organized than those of other Japanese general trading companies, function as a competitive advantages in gaining more business transactions. In the field of life science, we handle pharmaceutical products, pharmaceutical intermediate and raw materials, food and feed additives such as amino acids and enzymes. Novus International, Inc. (the United States), a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary, produces and sells amino acids. In addition, we focus on pharmaceutical manufacturing processes as represented by Beta-Chem, Inc. (Japan), a subsidiary in which we increased our investment to expand the scope of that company’s operations. We are also involved in research, development and marketing in the field of biotechnology and agricultural chemicals. In Singapore, we established Pharma Logicals Research Pte. Ltd., an operation to research antibodies, as a joint venture with Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and the Central Institute for Experimental Animals. In the field of agricultural chemicals, we have been concentrating our effort on the distribution of agricultural chemical products through our subsidiary, Certis Europe B.V. (Netherlands), which operates mainly in Benelux, France and the UK. In 2002, in order to bolster our global sales network to Germany which is the second biggest agricultural chemical market in Europe, we acquired Spiess-Urania Chemicals GmbH (Germany) in January 2003. In the field of fertilizer, we are engaged in import, export and offshore transactions involving various types of fertilizers and phosphoric acid derivatives such as Di Ammonium Phosphate. In addition, we are actively involved in procurement of basic raw materials for fertilizer, which are produced in certain limited areas of the world, in order to secure stable supply of those materials to our customers, mainly Japanese chemical companies. For example, we import basic raw material phosphate rock from China and South Africa for a Japanese manufacturer, Toyo Phosphoric Acid, Inc. (Japan), a subsidiary of Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., in which we have minor equity share of 17%. We look to expand our operations in China, which is strategically important for the future of this business unit. For example, in the Life Science Division, we invested in a local amino acid manufacturer in China. In the field of sorbitol food additives, we concluded a memorandum of understanding for the creation of a joint venture with Hong Kong’s Global Bio-chem Technology Group Co., Ltd. The production plant started operations in July 2005. In the growing biochemical market, while we are strengthening ties with chemical companies worldwide, other Japanese general trading companies could also be potential competitors. To maintain our competitiveness, specialized knowledge for each market and the capability to find the best technological and logistical solution is essential. Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Inorganic Chemicals Unit and the former Plastics Unit were integrated into a single business unit named the Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit. This business unit has 24 subsidiaries and 28 associated companies and is engaged in sales, trade and production of the following commodities and related activities: • basic inorganic materials such as sulfur, sulfuric acid, salt, titanium ore and iodine; • inorganic products such as soda ash, caustic soda, catalyst, industrial gas and titanium oxide; • electronic materials such as electrolytic copper foil, optical fiber, and high-purity chemicals employed in semiconductor production; • plastic materials and products such as polyvinyl chloride, elastomers, polyolefin, ABS resin, engineering plastics, polystyrene, plastic food containers, wrapping materials, industrial films and carbon fiber; • additives of plastic such as elasticizer, stabilizer and pigment; and 38 Table of Contents • SCM related businesses for production and distribution of office automation equipment, cell phone and electric appliances. In inorganic raw materials field, this business unit operates logistics systems and SCM systems for various industries in Japan and overseas. For example, we export sulfur, a byproduct of petroleum refining, to Asian countries, by operating specialized tankers. In order to overcome various unfavorable economic conditions such as depletion in the supply of mineral resources or an increase in acquisition cost of raw materials from our existing suppliers, we have been seeking opportunities to participate in new supply sources. We reallocated resources by restructuring logistics operations, and built up our capabilities in sulfur, soda ash, and fiberglass materials in Asia, primarily in China. In China, we expanded operations at our salt farm, which complements our existing sea salt joint venture in Shark Bay, Australia which supplies industrial salt to Japan and other Asian markets. Among new technologies, we anticipate that nanotechnology in particular could be applicable to many fields as below. • A subsidiary, Bussan Nanotech Research Institute Inc. (Japan)(*), succeeded in developing technology to produce high-quality carbon nanotubes, and completed construction of its prototype facility. It has drawn attention and generated expectations for the creation of new business opportunities, which include use in development of new and high performance plastic materials by compounding nanotubes with plastics and in semiconductors to take advantage of their high degree of conductivity. • We have been developing and promoting the commercialization of ethanol separation technology by using zeolite membranes, which will improve the energy efficiency of biomass ethanol production. This business unit produced and sold proprietary diesel particulate filters (“DPF”s) for buses and trucks, which were later found out to be non-conforming to regulatory standards of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and seven other municipal governments. With regard to DPF data falsification discovered during the year ended March 31, 2005 and Mitsui’s responsive measures, see Item 5.A. “Operating Results- Compensation and other charges related to DPF incident.” In Plastics field, this business unit traditionally handles various kinds of raw plastic materials and plastic products in domestic and overseas markets. This business unit also handles newly developed electronic materials and products as well as SCM services. We expanded SCM services for printers and liquid crystal display panels as well as reinforced our resin compound operations in China, Southeast Asia, the United States and Europe. With the focus of economic activity shifting to Asia, this business unit enhanced its business in China. In 2003, we established Mitsui Plastics Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., an engineering plastics sales company and Mitsui e-Film (Suzhou) Mfg. Co., Ltd., a manufacturing company engaged in processing films for liquid crystal display applications in Suzhou. In 2004, we established Mitsui International Logistics and Trade (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., which provides logistics services as an export/import trading company in the Suzhou Industrial Zone, one of China’s national development regions. It handles specialty chemicals, gases, parts, and other materials used in semiconductors and liquid crystal displays. This unit also set up a chemical etching company in Singapore, Mitsui Electronics Asia Pte. Ltd., for a liquid crystal display panel project. In the plastic materials and products market where the scope of their usage is expanding, other Japanese general trading companies are our competitors. To maintain our competitiveness, specialized (*) Carbon Nanotech Research Institute Inc. was merged with Bio Nanotec Research Institute Inc. and Device Nanotech Research Institute Inc. to form the newly established Bussan Nanotech Research Institute Inc. in April 2004. 39 Table of Contents knowledge for each market and the capability to find the best technological and logistical solutions is essential. Energy Segment The Energy Segment is engaged in trading, manufacturing, development and distribution of various energy-related products including: crude oil and petroleum products such as gasoline, naphtha, jet fuel, kerosene, diesel oil, fuel oil, asphalt, petroleum coke, lubricants and liquefied petroleum gas (“LPG”), as well as natural gas and LNG. This segment consists of one business unit, the Energy Business Unit, which has 7 business divisions as well as 23 subsidiaries such as Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore), Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd (Australia), and 12 associated companies such as Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan), Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (Japan), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) PTY. Ltd. (Australia) and Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda). Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥72.6 billion or 10.0% and ¥42.8 billion or 35.3% of our consolidated total, respectively. We are one of the world’s major oil traders based on our total trading volume of crude oil and petroleum products (excluding derivative products) which for the year ended March 31, 2005 amounted to approximately one third of Japan’s total imports of 5.1 million barrels per day on a consolidated basis. We are also engaged in domestic marketing and refining of oil and gas related products through Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd., a refinery jointly owned (50:50) by a subsidiary of ExxonMobil Corp. and Mitsui Oil & Gas Co., Ltd, our subsidiary. The Energy Business Unit is engaged in numerous LNG, natural gas and oil development projects that require long lead-times for their development and implementation. We are involved in four LNG projects that are in operation: • Abu Dhabi Gas Liquefaction Limited in Abu Dhabi, in which we hold a 15% interest in LNG production and exporting activities, and which has some 5 million tonnes per annum LNG production capacity; • Northwest Shelf JV (“NWS JV”) in Australia, in which we hold an 8.33% interest in LNG production and exporting activities, and which has some 11.7 million tonnes per annum production capacity; • Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Ltd. in Qatar, in which we hold a 7.5% interest in LNG production and exporting activities, and which has some 9.6 million tonnes per annum production capacity; and • Oman LNG L.L.C. in Oman, in which we hold a 2.77% interest in LNG production and exporting activities, and which has some 6.6 million tonnes per annum production capacity. Equatorial Guinea LNG is the most recent project that we have decided to participate in. Mitsui holds an 8.5% interest in the project company, which is constructing a liquefaction plant with over 3.4 million tonnes per annum capacity. Production is expected to start in the forth quarter of 2007. We participate in oil and gas related joint venture activities typically as a “non-operator” minority equity holder. We have yet to accumulate sufficient technical knowledge and expertise to act as an operator of oil and gas projects. Operators are generally responsible for the entire operational aspects which include the exploration, development and production of oil and gas resources. Therefore, given our non-operator status, we have limited or no control over the manner in which operations are conducted including the timing and scheduling of the development, the capital expenditures, production of the reserves, and the safety and environmental standards used in connection with these joint ventures. 40 Table of Contents However, it is our strategy as a general trading company to seek to diversify our investments in various countries and broad range of projects rather than acting as operators on few specific projects. In 2002, the NWS JV was awarded the supply contract for the first LNG terminal in China, to be located in the Guangdong province in southeast China. The contract volume is 3.3 million tonnes per annum and first deliveries are scheduled for 2006. Also in the NWS JV, the fourth LNG producing train began production in August 2004 and we made a final investment decision for the fifth LNG producing train in June 2005, which has a capacity of 4.2 million tonnes per year and is scheduled to begin in the latter half of 2008. In Qatar, the debottlenecking work on the existing LNG facilities has been completed since May 2005 and production capacities shall be 9.6 million tonnes per annum from 2006. These new LNG producing capacities will supply both existing and new customers. An “LNG producing train” is a set of facilities in a liquefaction plant to produce LNG from natural gas. “Debottlenecking” refers to additional investment and modification work on the existing LNG producing plants or trains to increase their production capacity through eliminating the bottleneck in existing plants or trains that restrict production capacity. In the Sakhalin II project, we hold a 25% interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda). Since 1999, seasonal oil production continued from the Molikpaq facility on the Astokhskoye field, offshore Sakhalin Island. In addition, Sakhalin Energy Investment Co., Ltd. announced on May 15, 2003, that it would begin the second phase of development of the Sakhalin II Project. This announcement marked the beginning of the full-scale development of the Piltun-Astokhskoye oil field aimed at year-round crude oil production, and the Lunskoye gas field, including construction of a two-train LNG plant in the south of Sakhalin Island for export to the Asia Pacific LNG markets based on long-term contracts. At its peak, the facility is expected to produce 60 million barrels per annum of crude oil and 9.6 million tonnes per annum of LNG. On July 14, 2005, we announced that it received an interim report from Sakhalin Energy Investment Co., Ltd. which was addressed to shareholders of the Sakhalin II project, namely, Royal Dutch/ Shell Group, Mitsui and Mitsubishi Corporation, relating to the possibility of changes in the total budget of the development plan for Phase 2 of the Sakhalin II Project, as well as the scheduled timing for the first delivery of LNG. The report indicates, as provisional estimates, that there would be the possibility that the total budget for the project could be of the order of U.S.$20 billion and the first delivery of LNG would take place in mid 2008. Originally, the total budget for the Phase 2 development was expected to be approximately U.S.$10 billion with the first delivery of LNG expected to take place in 2007. We continue putting high priority on expanding our oil and gas equity reserves together with our associated company Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan). Identifying, exploring and developing oil and gas reserve prospects are key factors to success in this area. Our principal strategic region for this business remained Australia, South East Asia and the Middle East. During the year ended March 31, 2005, continuous near field exploration activities together with water-flood operation resulted in higher than budgeted oil production at Block 9 oil fields in Oman and final investment decisions to develop Casino Gas & Condensate Field offshore South Australia and Cliff Head Oil Field offshore Western Australia were made by the respective joint ventures. As a result, our oil and gas reserves increased to 592 million barrels of oil equivalent (boe) at the end of March 2005, after offsetting the decrease through production of 30 million boe of equity barrels during the year ended March 31, 2005. As of March 31, 2005, the proportion of proved developed reserves to proved developed and undeveloped reserves is about 25 percent and relatively low. See “Item 4.D. Property, Plants and Equipment — Oil and Gas Producing Activities” and “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. The development of Enfield Oil Field located in the North West Shelf area in Australia has progressed as per the schedule and the budget and we expect the field comes on stream later in 2006. A study to select the optimum development concept for Vincent Oil Field located in the same block as 41 Table of Contents Enfield is under way with a view to expediting a final investment decision and start up of oil production from the field. On June 17, 2005, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Pogo Producing Company of the United States of America and their affiliate Pogo Overseas Production B.V. (“Pogo”) to purchase Pogo’s Thailand assets jointly with PTTEP Offshore Investment Company Limited(PTTEPO), a wholly-owned subsidiary of PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited of Thailand. Pogo’s Thailand assets consist of a 46.34% interest in the B8/32 Concession and the adjacent Block 9A Concession located in the Gulf of Thailand. The purchase price is U.S.$820 million in cash, of which Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. will contribute approximately 40% and PTTEPO approximately 60% with Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. and PTTEPO each acquiring interests in the assets in the same proportions. We are also exploring various emerging business opportunities in the energy industry, including electricity, retailing, environment-related businesses, gas to liquids (“GTL”) and di-methyl ether (“DME”). We are involved in the electricity retail business through our associated company, GTF Institute Co., Ltd. (Japan), in which we hold a 40% interest. Following growth in the electricity sales since its commencement in 2002, GTF Institute Co., Ltd. decided to expand its capacity to 110 megawatt from the existing 45 megawatt and the construction will be completed in June 2006. The international markets for crude oil and petroleum products are highly competitive and volatile, as these commodities are traded on exchanges such as NYMEX in New York, IPE in London, and TOCOM in Tokyo. In the worldwide trading business, we compete with international oil companies, national oil companies in oil producing countries and oil trading companies, including Japanese trading companies. In maintaining our competitive edge under these circumstances, it is critical for us to maintain good relationships with suppliers and customers as well as to mitigate price risks by utilizing hedging tools such as the futures markets. We are also active in seeking to secure long-term offtake contracts of petroleum and gas products such as fuel oil and condensate to be sold to Japanese utility and refining companies. Long-term offtake contracts are sales and purchase contracts for various commodities, such as petroleum products, entered into by suppliers and buyers, or “offtakers”, of such products for one or more years. Concurrent with the offtake contracts, the sellers of such products usually enter into financing arrangements whereby the sales proceeds from such products are used to finance a related project. For example, on March 25, 2003, the Energy Segment entered into an offtake contract with PERUSAHAAN PERTAMBANGAN MINYAK DAN GAS BUMINEGRA (“PERTAMINA”), the national oil and gas company of Indonesia, and committed itself to “lift and pay” for petroleum products for a period of time. Concurrently, our Electric Machinery, Plant & Project Business Unit was engaged in the structuring and the arrangement of debt financing with various lenders to provide a U.S.$200 million loan to PERTAMINA which would be utilized to build a facility at its existing Balongan Refinery to produce about 50,000 barrels per day of unleaded gasoline. PERTAMINA will supply us with the petroleum products from its existing refineries and the proceeds from the sales of these products will be used as the source of debt service for the U.S.$200 million loan. In the domestic refining and marketing business for oil and gas related products, we face severe competition from domestic oil refining and distributing companies due to the structural surplus situation of refining capacities in Japan. Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. and Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd., Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd., our core associated company and subsidiaries, respectively, for domestic oil and gas refining and marketing business activities, are in relatively sound financial situations owing to the extensive restructuring of inefficient assets and work force, and are pursuing efficient and competitive operations. Japanese Government regulations stipulate that sulfur content must be reduced to 10 parts per million (“ppm”) for environmental control from 2007 for gas oil and 2008 for gasoline. Major Japanese oil refineries and distributors voluntarily started to supply the 10 ppm standard products from January 2005 before the restriction is introduced. To keep a competitive position in the market, Kyokuto Petroleum 42 Table of Contents Industries, Ltd. has determined to invest in new equipment to strengthen the removal of sulfur and is proceeding for the completion of gas oil equipment in April 2005 and gasoline in March 2007. With respect to the oil and gas exploration and production (“E&P”) business, the key to success is to constantly increase or at least maintain certain volumes of oil and gas reserve prospects as is the common practice with international oil and gas companies. However, despite our management’s intensive focus on expanding our E&P business activities, our oil and gas reserves are still far less than that of national oil companies of oil producing countries and major oil and gas companies. Other Japanese companies that participate in E&P activities do not commonly disclose their proved oil and gas reserves. Based on the limited proved oil and gas reserves information of other Japanese E&P companies that are publicly available, we believe that we have higher amounts of proved oil and gas reserves in general compared to most of the Japanese E&P companies. Accordingly, we believe that we are competitive with other Japanese E&P companies. With respect to our LNG related operations, we have entered into various long term sales contracts, based on take or pay conditions, with customers such as Japanese utility companies. We believe the LNG business has been undergoing gradual but structural changes since the late 1990s’s as follows: • Exploration and development of natural gas and production of LNG require significant capital and financial commitments. Moreover, this involves a broad range of logistical and technological expertise ranging from linking suppliers to distributors and consumers while developing plants in order to efficiently extract and liquefy the natural gas for transportation and then re-gasifying the LNG. Up until the mid-1990’s, purchase commitments by buyers with full “take or pay” obligations for a period of 20 years or more had been an essential element for equity holders, distributors and sellers of LNG projects to make the capital and financial commitment to build LNG production facilities. These equity investors had resisted making a capital and financial commitment without being able to fully securing stable long-term purchase commitments. In recent years, however, equity holders of several LNG projects have been making investments without fully securing long-term purchase commitments from buyers. • Due to technological innovations in the last decade, LNG producers have successfully reduced capital costs with respect to the construction of LNG production plants and LNG vessels. Technological innovation has also enabled the producers to increase the design capacities of LNG production plants and LNG vessels allowing them to benefit from economies of scale. These technological developments allow LNG to be more competitive with other types of energy sources. • In response to the needs of LNG buyers to adjust the supply and demand balance for LNG, the spot LNG market has been expanding, whereby the percentage of spot trades in the worldwide LNG contracts rose to 11.6% in 2004 from 1.3% in 1992. • In addition to traditional core LNG markets in Japan, Republic of Korea and Taiwan, the market is rapidly expanding in Europe and the United States. At the same time, new markets have been emerging in countries such as China and India due to an increasing demand for electricity. Considering the sizable economies of these countries and the increasing popularity of LNG as “clean energy”, the LNG market has been developing rapidly worldwide. The recent structural changes in the LNG industry, including those mentioned above, continue to have a mixed effect on our business operations. For example, due to the reduction in capital costs from technological innovations, the emergence of the spot LNG market and other factors, not only has the LNG industry become more competitive among the existing energy-related companies, but it has also seen an increase of new entrants. Consumer Products & Services Segment The Consumer Products & Services Segment is engaged in trading activities of and related investments in various types of consumer-related products such as foods, textile and fashion and general merchandise as well as real estate development and provision of services for supporting retailers such as 43 Table of Contents merchandising, logistics and inventory management in Japan and various other overseas markets all over the world. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥152.6 billion or 21.0% and ¥16.9 billion or 14.0% of our consolidated total, respectively. This segment is comprised of the Foods & Retail Business Unit, the Lifestyle Business Unit and the Consumer Service Business Unit, and owns 77 subsidiaries including MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), Wilsey Foods Inc. (the United States), Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan), Retail System Service Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Foods & Retail Business Unit, Mitsui Bussan Inter-fashion Ltd. (Japan) in the Lifestyle Business Unit, Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) in the Consumer Service Business Unit, and 77 associated companies including Mikuni Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Ltd. (Japan), Shin Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Japan)(*), KADOYA SESAME MILLS INCORPORATED (Japan) in the Foods & Retail Business Unit,, ALCANTARA S.p.A. (Italy), Nippon Brunswick Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Lifestyle Business Unit, AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Consumer Service Business Unit. Effective April 1, 2004, the business units in this segment were reorganized, and these changes are referred to in the following discussion of each business unit. Foods & Retail Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the Retail Unit and the Foods Unit were integrated into a single business unit and renamed the Foods & Retail Business Unit. Some of the business affairs were transferred to the newly established Consumer Service Business Unit. Together with 38 subsidiaries and 32 associated companies, the Foods & Retail Business Unit engages in: • Import and domestic/offshore trade of wheat, barley, soybeans, corn, fats and oils, raw sugar, and rice; • Import and domestic/offshore trade of processed foods such as canned products, frozen foods and condiments, liquor, beverages such as coffee, tea and juice, dairy products, and foodstuffs such as marine products, animal products and vegetables; • Import and domestic trade of packaging, wrapping materials, and miscellaneous daily goods; • Manufacturer of beverages, beverage ingredients, boilers, and sugar-based products; • Domestic distribution and sales through the nationwide wholesaler subsidiary MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan); and • Support services, such as supply chain management, for example logistics management, and product planning and development for retailers. The Foods & Retail Unit is involved in a wide range of fields comprising a value chain of foods, from the global procurement of foodstuffs and the production of food products to the traffic and wholesale of foods, packaging materials, and sundry goods. We purchase grain, oilseeds, and raw sugar from the United States, Canada, Brazil, and Australia and sell them in Japan and other Asian countries to secure a source of foodstuffs and a stable supply. We sell coffee to Japan and the United States from production areas primarily in Brazil. We purchase raw materials for beverages, such as tea leaves and juice, marine products, animal products, and dairy products from major supply sources around the world and deliver them primarily to Japan. We are also engaged in (*) Shin Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Japan) changed its corporate name to Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Japan) in April 2005. 44 Table of Contents domestic broiler chicken raising, processing, and sales through a subsidiary DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. (Japan). Mitsui has positioned the United States as its main base of operations and the core of its global food supply strategy. • In the cereals and grains area, we have formed a joint venture, United Harvest, LLC, with CHS Inc., an agricultural cooperative in the United States. Our exports of wheat from the United States are among the best, amounting to approximately four million tons per annum. • Ventura Foods, LLC, another joint venture formed with CHS Inc., is one of the largest suppliers of cooking oils for the institutional market in the United States. We invest in this company through WILSEY FOODS, INC. Outside the United States, we are working to strengthen our positions primarily in Brazil and China. In Brazil, we sell coffee beans domestically through our subsidiary Mitsui Alimentos Ltda, a coffee exporting and roasting company, which provides stable supplies to our worldwide customers. We have also begun to purchase soybeans in a joint venture with CHS Inc. in the same region. In China, we began to purchase juice and tea leaves as well as broiler chicken raising, processing, and sales activities. In food-manufacturing operations, during the year ended March 31, 2004, we increased our equity stake in Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), which is one of the major manufacturers of tea leaves in Japan, and made it our subsidiary with the intention of positioning it as a core company in our beverage business, realizing synergies with our existing network for procurement of raw materials and domestic distribution. For more information, see Note 3, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS, to our consolidated financial statements. Our strength in the foodstuffs field lies in overseas procurement of food products. For example, our import of grain, oilseeds, and tea leaves to Japan maintains a large share in Japan due to our long relationships with overseas suppliers and major buyers in Japan. Moreover, as demonstrated by our alliance with CHS Inc. in the United States, we constantly endeavor to form alliances with reliable partners in other regions, strengthen overseas product procurement capabilities and expand our position in major overseas production areas. Competition varies depending on products in the upstream areas, but is generally based on price or quality of products. Many Japanese general trading companies, international producers, and traders are competitors to varying degrees with respect to most of the food products we handle. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. plays a vital role in this unit’s wholesale operations. It is expanding its business activities to include general merchandise stores, supermarkets, convenience stores, and catering and restaurant chains throughout Japan, focusing on processed food and liquor transactions. The Foods & Retail Business Unit is developing and strengthening its nationwide distribution chain focused on MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., including investments and business tie-ups from the parent company with regional wholesalers. In the foodstuffs distribution field, the needs for reduced distribution costs, secure temperature-controlled supply, and faster delivery are becoming more sophisticated and diverse. To meet these changes, the Foods & Retail Business Unit is engaging in wholesale transactions with and providing support services to retailers. This includes: • inventory management and procurement of foodstuffs, processed foods, and packaging based on sales information obtained from retailers, which enables more efficient and less expensive distribution from manufacturers to retailer stores and cost reductions; and • proposals for developing new products and services, and support in the form of traceability for securing food safety. Mitsui maintains and strengthens a comprehensive alliance with the Ito-Yokado Group, one of Japan’s leading diversified retailers. The Ito-Yokado Group operates shopping malls, general merchandise 45 Table of Contents stores, supermarkets, convenience stores such as 7-Eleven, restaurant chains such as Denny’s, and financial service companies such as the IYBank, and has recently opened a SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) in April 2004. Mitsui offers the following supply services to the Ito-Yokado Group through our domestic subsidiaries, such as MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., Retail System Service Co., Ltd. and VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. • supply sundry goods and consumables, such as processed food, liquor, fast food, toys, and games, to more than ten thousand 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply food materials, containers, and packaging materials to vendors who supply boxed lunches, pre-cooked meals, and processed food to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply various temperature-controlled products to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; and • supply cold products through the affiliate company Beijing Sanxin Refrigeration Logistics Co., Ltd. to 7-Eleven stores in Beijing. To strengthen our business ties with the Ito-Yokado Group, the Foods & Retail Business Unit began purchasing Ito-Yokado shares in April 2005. As of the end of August 2005, we have purchased ¥10 billion of Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. shares and ¥40 billion of Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. shares. The Ito-Yokado Group will establish a new holding company (Seven & I Holdings Co., Ltd) on September 1, 2005, and the shares that we acquired are equal to roughly 1.2% of Seven & I Holdings Co., Ltd. outstanding shares. Our competitors in the wholesale and retail businesses are mainly general trading companies in Japan. In the traffic area, our competitors are also traffic companies that operate third-party logistics. In domestic wholesaling, there is fierce competition among suppliers, and we are making efforts to increase revenues and reduce logistics costs by achieving better economies of scale through mergers and acquisitions on occasion. Our success depends on the following critical factors: • IT and logistics technology (“LT”) know-how for providing high-quality and low-cost services; • capital strength to withstand the acquisition of fixed assets and the purchases of businesses required for distribution and otherwise demonstrating our business capabilities; • quick decision-making and execution in marketing and investing; and • the ability to procure a wide variety of products in all regions by maintaining our credibility and a good reputation in the market. Lifestyle Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Textile & Fashion Unit and the former General Merchandise Unit were integrated into a single business unit named the Lifestyle Business Unit. Together with 17 subsidiaries and 29 associated companies, the Lifestyle Business Unit is engaged in domestic, import, export and offshore trading and manufacturing of the following materials and products, as well as related services and investments: • apparel and non-apparel textile materials such as fibers, yarns and fabrics; and technical collaboration in these products field; • apparel products, related product development and manufacturing of those products; and brand merchandise-related businesses including equity participation; • non-apparel products such as interior and furniture, general merchandise and consumer goods; and • industrial materials such as paper and pulp. 46 Table of Contents In the fashion product field, including apparel products, we actively provide innovative services to accommodate new developments in the fashion and apparel markets. Our main business activities are divided into two categories: • original equipment manufacturing (“OEM”) business for domestic apparel manufacturers; and • business transactions involving branded luxury and accessible luxury products from Europe and the United States for the Japanese market. In the field of apparel and OEM, we play active roles at various stages in the value chain including design, planning and procurement of materials as well as sewing and processing. To meet our goals of minimizing costs and enhancing quality, we work with apparel makers and related companies on an ongoing basis to select the optimal materials and processing centers from the wide variety of choices available in Japan Europe, the Americas, Asia and other areas. We regard China as an important manufacturing base and also a significant consumer market as well. To further strengthen our OEM business capabilities and our provision of support services such as manufacturing or exhibition management, we utilize our subsidiaries and associated companies such as Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (Japan) and Alta Moda International Ltd. (Hong Kong). In the OEM business for domestic apparel manufacturers, we have alliance partners with respect to various goods. In this line of business, our competitors include other apparel traders, because apparel manufacturers tend to form partnerships with several apparel traders in parallel. As such, we strive to provide a higher quality of support services for OEM than those of our competitors to attract apparel manufacturer customers. With respect to brand merchandise-related businesses in Japan, we are engaged in both license and import business transactions involving internationally well-known branded merchandise from Europe and the United States such as Burberry, Paul Stuart, Pierre Cardin, Trussardi, Valentino, Max Mara, Mango, Etro and Juicy Couture. In the case of license agreements, we enter into with the respective European and American licensors, we sublicense certain rights including, but not limited to, marketing and manufacturing rights to apparel makers and wholesalers, while we retain the exclusive distributorship rights. We, if necessary, establish joint venture subsidiaries with such European and American brand owners to control license arrangements or to distribute imported products in order to establish well controlled nationwide sales network composed of wholesalers, department stores, specialty-stores or our own retail outlets. In brand merchandise-related businesses, our competitors are other general trading companies and apparel specialty traders including Itochu Corporation and Mitsubishi Corporation. The keys to maintain our competitiveness are to raise the value of the brand which we promote in the market and to increase the number of valuable brands we deal with. In general merchandise and consumer goods fields, this business unit is engaged in the trading, production, processing and distribution of various merchandise goods such as general household and consumer goods, light industrial machinery and supplies, medical equipment and office automation systems as set forth below: • We supply a wide range of top-quality consumer goods imported from around the world, which include high-quality Sonicare ultrasonic toothbrushes, Brunswick bowling equipment and systems, MAGLITE handy flashlights, and top-of-the-line Lladro porcelain; • We trade woodchip and pulp, furthermore, we develop several afforestation projects in Australia, some of which are jointly promoted with several Japanese partners including paper manufacturing companies; and • As for paper and ceramic products, we closely partner with Japanese manufacturers and participate in joint venture production operations in China to sell products there and export them from China, as well as handling products in and from Japan. 47 Table of Contents In the business area of consumer-related goods such as sporting and leisure goods, continuous changes in lifestyles worldwide require new business models which reflect such changes. Accordingly, we seek to locate new materials and new suppliers, arrange effective distribution methods and develop attractive brand names. Such efforts are realized through a combination of our human and organizational network and industrial expertise. Consumer Service Business Unit Effective April 1, 2004, the former Service Business Unit was integrated into the Consumer Service Business Unit along with other consumer oriented businesses which had previously been included in the Information Business Unit and the Foods Unit. The former Service Business Unit was established for the year ended March 31, 2003 to build new business models that extend beyond our traditional strengths in trading and distribution and to focus on services to consumers as earnings sources. Major business areas of this unit including 22 subsidiaries and 16 associated companies consist of the following: • real estate development including construction, sale and leasing of houses, condominiums and office buildings and related construction material businesses and development of commercial facilities; • media-related service business including broadcasting, content service, television shopping channels, software service, amusement business and Internet-based marketing service; • outsourcing services including catering, uniform rental, building maintenance, and temporary personnel service, child care service; • medical service and health care related businesses such as nursing care-related services, clinic facilities and medical related information service. In real estate development businesses, our core area is development of condominium and commercial property in the Tokyo metropolitan area and construction and marketing of high-end home units, which are sold by Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) under the Mitsui House brand. MBK Real Estate Ltd. (the United States) handles the sale of unit houses in the southern California market, as well as commercial property on the west coast of the United States. In the related business activities, our associated company Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) supplies construction materials in the domestic market. In March 2005 we jointly established Mall & SC Development, Inc. (Japan) with Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. to pursue the development and management of shopping malls and shopping centers. In media-related service business, as a consumer service and content provider, we provide television shopping services operated by QVC Japan, Inc. (Japan), a joint venture with QVC Inc., and an entertainment and educational channel for children and parents operated by Kid’s Station Inc. (Japan), our wholly-owned subsidiary, both of which are delivered over cable or digital satellite broadcast networks In the outsourcing businesses, our catering service business is active through AIM Services Co., Ltd. (Japan), a joint venture with ARAMARK Corporation in the United States, which provides food and catering services in Japan. In July 2002, AIM Services acquired Atlas Corporation, which has a majority stake in MEFOS Co., Ltd., a provider of hospital cafeteria food services in Japan. We are also in the process of cultivating new opportunities in medical services through our subsidiary, Medivance Co. (Japan), Ltd. And this segment made 5% equity participation in and formed an alliance with Duskin Co., Ltd., which is engaged in cleaning services, food services and nursing care services nationwide. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment The Logistics & Financial Markets Segment is engaged in transportation and logistics services, insurance and financial business in Japan and abroad. Effective from April 1, 2004 the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment was established by reallocating relevant businesses which had formerly been included in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and the All Other Segment, with the aim to providing high-quality, specialized logistics and financial capabilities to customers across all product areas. 48 Table of Contents Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥46.7 billion or 6.4% and ¥11.8 billion or 9.7% of our consolidated total, respectively. This segment is composed of the Financial Markets Business Unit and the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, and has 30 subsidiaries including: • in the Financial Markets Business Unit, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States), Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. (Japan); and • in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan), Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan), Tri-Net (Japan) Inc. (Japan). This segment has 7 associated companies including Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan) and Quintiles Transnational Japan K.K. (Japan) in the Financial Markets Business Unit. Financial Markets Business Unit The Financial Markets Business Unit was established by integrating the relevant divisions such as the Commodity Trading & Risk Management Division, the Treasury Division and the Corporate Development Division, which had been included in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and the All Other Segment. This business unit has 18 subsidiaries and 3 associated companies and is engaged in following business activities: • dealing in derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange and financial futures; and trading of and investment in debt and equity securities; • trading in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities; • financial equity investments including principal investment and venture capital operation; • real estate investment trusts (“REIT”) related business • development, origination and sales of financial products; investment in and portfolio management of financial products; and • leasing business Mitsui and its subsidiaries such as Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States) are engaged in trading and brokerage in precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange and derivative commodity instruments for energy, agricultural foods and other commodities. We are also engaged in sales and marketing of various derivative and financial instruments of our own development to investors and market participants. Mitsui & Co., Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), which we established in March 2002, enjoyed growth in derivative trading operations, mainly of crude oil and natural gas related commodities. Japan Alternative Investment Co., Ltd. (Japan) began operations in April 2002, acting as a placement agent for alternative investment products, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and commodity funds. Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. (Japan) is a domestic subsidiary engaged in the future commodities brokering including precious metals and other commodities such as foods and oil products. In June 2004, Mitsui and Quintiles Transnational Corp. agreed on Mitsui taking a 20% shareholding in Quintiles Transnational Japan K.K. (Japan), in a transaction designed to accelerate the growth of Quintiles Transnational Japan K.K.. Quintiles Transnational Corp. is a major worldwide company in the outsourcing service business in the pharmaceutical industry. This transaction fits well with our goal of investing in first-class international companies in the healthcare and outsourcing service industries and, in particular, enhancing those companies’ Japanese operations. This business unit is also engaged in venture capital business through subsidiaries such as MVC Corporation (Japan). 49 Table of Contents In July 2004, this business unit formed Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd. (Japan), as an asset management company for real estate investment trusts that are specialized in the management of investments in warehouses and distribution centers. In May 2005, we completed listing of Japan’s first logistics facilities related REIT, Japan Logistics Fund Inc., with the asset size of approximately ¥26 billion on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. This business unit has 40.63% participating interest in Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan), a leasing company with its strengths in leasing of information-processing equipments and large scale equipments, as well as industrial machinery, aircrafts and ocean vessels. Transportation Logistics Business Unit The Transportation Logistics Business Unit, which had formerly been included in the All Other Segment, was established and included in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment as a profit center in April 2004 with the aim to providing sophisticated, high value added logistics services to customers leveraging its longstanding experiences in offering such services groupwide. This business unit also seeks for the development of new business domain through integrating logistics, financial and information technology. Together with 12 subsidiaries and 4 associated companies, this business unit is engaged in the following business activities: • international and domestic transport services including transportation of plants and other special cargos, tramper shipping, and airfreight; • warehousing and port services; operation, construction and management of warehouses and harbor facilities; • insurance agency and consultation for insurance; • solution providing service on logistics including SCM; and • REIT and other liquidating businesses related to logistics related facilities. In international and domestic transport services field, we have established 5 core subsidiaries including Tri-Net (Japan) Inc., which cover our operations in Japan, Americas, Europe, South East Asia, and China, respectively. Each of those subsidiaries collaborates with the Head Office and trading subsidiaries worldwide of Mitsui, and provides international transportation services mainly using marine containers. They also provide international combined transportation services by integrating different modes of transportation such as land, sea and air. In tramper business, they provide transportation services for power and chemical plant projects and bulky cargoes such as coal, grain and fertilizers. In the field of warehousing and port service related business within Japan, Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan) plays a core role. For example, it conducts joint operation with a domestic specialty store retailer of private label apparel for outsourced production and inventory management, it provides information processing function so that its customers optimize their logistics transactions. This business has a subsidiary Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. (Japan) as an insurance agency. In addition, the business unit has acquired insurance companies for captive insurance and operates subsidiaries which are engaged in this business field, including Insurance Company of Trinet (USA), Inc. This business unit also maintains consultation service on a variety range of insurance issues, by taking advantage of experience and know-how in risk management of this business unit. In collaboration with the Financial Markets Business Unit, this business unit promotes business of REIT for logistics-related real estate properties. This unit intends to increase the assets for such REIT program, seeking opportunities of development of facilities, brokerage in properties and tenant. 50 Table of Contents Americas Segment The Americas Segment trades in various commodities and conducts related business led by overseas trading subsidiaries in North, Central and South America. Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., or Mitsui U.S.A., manages the business of the segment as the center of the regional strategy. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥49.9 billion or 6.9% and ¥12.3 billion or 10.2% of our consolidated total, respectively. This segment consists of 10 trading subsidiaries including Mitsui U.S.A., Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd., Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A., Mitsui Chile Ltda., and other 35 subsidiaries owned by mainly Mitsui U.S.A. including Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc., Portac Inc., Channel Terminal Corp., Westport Petroleum Inc., Mitsui Tubular Products, Inc. and Mitsui Comtek Corp. and 3 associated companies including TAMCO. Mitsui U.S.A. is our largest overseas subsidiary, and carries out many diversified business activities together with our subsidiaries and associated companies in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office in Japan. Mitsui U.S.A. has been leading our entry in the U.S. market, and we believe that Mitsui U.S.A. is one of the major exporters of American products. Mitsui U.S.A. has its corporate head office in New York City. Other offices are located in Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles, Nashville, Portland, San Francisco, Seattle and Washington, D.C. Business activities of Mitsui U.S.A.’s major operating divisions are as below: • The Iron & Steel Products Division maintains alliances with steel mills, steel processors, and customers in the U.S. and other countries. Working closely with solution providers, it specializes in SCM of steel products, manages inventory and process arrangements. This division has been focusing on business activities through subsidiaries and associated companies such as Mitsui Steel, Inc. for steel products sales and demand chain management (“DCM”) services, Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc. which holds Mi-Tech Steel Inc. (steel service center), PK U.S.A., Inc. (automotive steel stamping), Hannibal Industries, Inc. (steel tube and pallet rack manufacturing); Mitsui Tubular Products, Inc. (steel pipe sales), and TAMCO (steel bar manufacturing and sales). • The Iron & Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Division specializes in iron and steel raw materials, coal, primary aluminum, aluminum alloy, copper cathode, and non-ferrous materials. The division is supported by relationships with subsidiaries jointly held with the Head Office, for example, Raw Materials Development Co., Ltd. and Mitalco Inc. both in which the division has equity share of 20%. • The Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Division deals in power, energy, transportation, and industrial and infrastructure projects in the Americas through close coordination with the Head Office. In addition, subsidiaries such as Hydro Capital Corp. for waste water treatment projects in Mexico and MIT Wind Power, Inc. for wind power generation in Texas are engaged in this business field. • The Machinery Division deals in motor vehicles, ship and marine projects, aircraft and construction and industrial machinery. The Division works closely with United Auto Group, Hino Motors, Chevron, Modec International, Embraer, JetBlue and Komatsu. Particularly, its activities are seen in investment to distribution & retails of automobile/construction machinery/outdoor power equipment, newbuilding ship tonnage provider to oil major/shipping companies, aircraft leasing for the growing regional airlines. • The Organic Chemicals Division and the Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Division are engaged in the domestic and international trade of various organic and inorganic chemicals and chemical intermediates, plastic resins, compounds and final products, pharmaceutical intermediates, food additives, fertilizer and crop protection chemicals, and petrochemicals. This division has extended business activities thorough subsidiaries such as Bioproducts, Inc. Recent development of this 51 Table of Contents division toward a new business is an acquisition of CornerStone Research & Development Inc., which focuses on processing and packaging of healthcare foods and chemicals. • The Energy Division specializes in global trading of petroleum products, including crude oil, heavy oil and petroleum coke, as well as importation of LNG. This division has a subsidiary Westport Petroleum, Inc. in which Mitsui U.S.A. has 65.0% equity share and the remaining share is owned by the Head office. Westport Petroleum, Inc. is engaged in sales, trading and commercial and operational services to the energy industry with respect to pipeline and cargo trading of gasoline, jet fuel, diesel, refinery feedstocks, cutterstocks, bunker fuel, and fuel oils throughout the United States and major international energy markets. These transactions by Westport Petroleum, Inc. account for one of major part of our revenues from sales of products groupwide. • The food division deals in grain, coffee, meats, vegetables, eggs, juices, dairy products, frozen foods, feedstuff, edible oils and canned foods. Notably, this division has a subsidiary United Grain Corp, which is engaged in export facility operation for wheat and barley. • The Life commerce division focuses on consumer-oriented business development. This division has a subsidiary Portac, Inc. a lumber mill, which produces dimension lumber and specialty items for U.S consumption and export. In other area, the division has an equity share in MBK Real Estate Ltd., a real estate subsidiary jointly held with the Head Office and engaged in development and homebuilding services Europe Segment Europe Segment trades in various commodities and conducts related businesses led by overseas trading subsidiaries in Europe and Africa. Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC (“Mitsui Europe”) is authorized to manage the business of this segment as the center of its regional strategy. Also, this segment is responsible for carrying out diversified business activities together with its affiliated companies in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥20.7 billion or 2.9% and ¥2.9 billion or 2.4% of our consolidated total, respectively. As of March 31, 2005, this segment consists of 12 trading subsidiaries including Mitsui Europe, Mitsui & Co. UK PLC, Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH, 7 subsidiaries including Cohen & Wilks International Ltd. (United Kingdom) and Plalloy MTD B.V. (Netherlands) and 8 associated companies including Companhia Industrial De Resinas Sinteticas (Portugal). Mitsui Europe, our wholly-owned subsidiary with its head office in London, manages the overall business activities in Western Europe, Africa, Central and Eastern Europe through its 8 operating subsidiaries, 13 branch offices and liaison offices. Mitsui Europe collaborates with our subsidiaries and associated companies of other operating segments. In April 2005, this segment reorganized its internal structure. Before the change, each of those operating subsidiaries had independently reported to the Managing Director of Mitsui Europe, whereby their business plans and operations had been inclined to be narrowed by limitation of borders of countries. In order to accelerate business development based on a product strategy that encompasses the whole of Europe, this segment introduced a Business Division System within Europe, in which Divisional Operating Officers oversee the operations by products and services in the region and directly report to Managing Director of Mitsui Europe. Recently, the major parts of business in this segment have been sales and trading in steel products, chemicals and machinery. For example, this segment has provided assistance services for SCM of steel products procured by Norsk Hydro ASA. In chemical business, this segment has been engaged in sales and trade in various chemical products and materials supported by our global network and relationship with large scale manufactures including Bayer Aktiengesellschaft. In machinery business, for Mitsui’s 52 Table of Contents worldwide power plant and industrial plant and transportation projects, this segment has provided assistance service in collaboration with European manufacturers such as Siemens Aktiengesellschaft. Over the years, in Central and Eastern Europe, we have established trading subsidiaries and representative offices to expand business opportunities in the region, and continuously participated in joint ventures, mainly with Japanese manufactures. Along with enlargement of European Union, Japanese automobile, electric and chemical manufactures are rushing to set up operations in the region. We are also collaborating with them by taking advantage of our business bases. We are starting joint operation with Arcelor S.A., a European steel maker, to supply steel sheet to the Japanese automobile and automobile parts manufacturers. Other Overseas Areas Segment This segment includes all of our region-based subsidiaries, liaison offices and affiliated companies excluding those in our Americas and Europe Segments. The subsidiaries, liaison offices and affiliated companies in this segment are located primarily in China, the member countries of ASEAN, Oceania, the Middle East, Southwest Asia and CIS. The Overseas Areas Segment is engaged in business activities that are essentially similar to that of Mitsui. We conduct business activities in all industry sectors based on our specialized knowledge particular to that region. In order to develop new business opportunities emerging with the development of network economies based around China, ASEAN and India, we introduced an Asian Managing Directorship system. Thus, since April 2005, the Regional Managing Director, Asia has had full control with broad authority and responsibility to manage our businesses throughout Asia excluding Japan. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥25.8 billion or 3.6% and ¥13.8 billion or 11.4% of consolidated total, respectively. China China has been a focus of recent global attention as an attractive market, with 9.5% and 9.3% growth in gross domestic product in 2004 and 2003, respectively, as a result of accession to the WTO and a growing reputation as an efficient and cost effective manufacturer of goods. Based on our assessment that there is a tremendous potential in Greater China which includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, we have considerably increased our presence in the market there. We have been increasing our operations in, and shifting management resources to, Greater China in order to expand and strengthen our business operations involving products such as automobiles, consumer products, IT, electronics, energy, and metals, while reinforcing our transportation and logistics services. Our presence in China is comprised of eight local subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd., an investing company in Beijing and six subsidiaries in China’s bonded areas including Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. as well as Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. In addition, we have established representative offices in 12 cities in China as of March 2005. In accordance with agreements made when joining the WTO, the Chinese government has pledged to ease restrictions on trading and domestic sales by foreign companies, and the relevant laws and regulations are being revised. In April 2003, we realigned our operations in China with the aim of creating a streamlined system to manage our business in China, including Hong Kong. The realignment included establishing three operating units in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong, each reporting to our single General Representative in China. By centralizing decision-making authority for our Chinese operations, we expect the new structure to be better equipped to respond to and effectively address new business opportunities. For information on business in China promoted by the business units of the Head Office or joint ventures in China, see the above-mentioned activities of each business unit. Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. 53 Table of Contents has made investment jointly with the business units of the Head Office in critical joint ventures in China. Among others, we place a high priority on establishment of logistic network within China. For example: • In March 2003, we entered into a comprehensive strategic alliance with China Postal Logistics Co., Ltd. Through this alliance, we are now in a position to utilize the facilities and distribution networks of China’s postal service, the China State Post Bureau. • Through Mitsui International Logistics and Trade (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., which is referred in the business activities of the Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit, we also became the first trading company to gain the right to conduct imports and exports under our own name outside a bonded area. We plan to use this subsidiary to handle merchandise flows to and from China, mainly to serve the Chinese bases of Japanese companies. Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has minority share in this subsidiary. ASEAN Region In the ASEAN region, overseas offices including Singapore Branch, Kuala Lumpur Branch and Manila Branch, trading subsidiaries including Mitsui & Co., (Thailand) Ltd., Mitsiam International Ltd. (Thailand), PT Mitsui Indonesia (Indonesia) and associated companies jointly collaborate with the Head Office and engage in various business activities involving, amongst other things, chemical and metal products and industrial type projects. Such industrial projects are referred in the business activities of the Power, Transportation & Plant Project Business Unit above. With the Head Office, these branches and trading subsidiaries jointly establish various subsidiaries and participate in joint ventures formed with the third parties. Oceania In Australia, Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. is active in the development of minerals such as iron ore and coal, energy and agricultural exports in collaboration with corresponding operating segments mainly in the Head Office. As described in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and the Energy Segment above, Australia is a critical geographic area in our corporate strategy. Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. participates in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) with equity share of 20% and 30%, respectively. The Middle East In the Middle East we have established trading subsidiaries of Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. (United Arab Emirates), Mitsui and Co.(Middle East) B.S.C.(c) (Bahrain), Mitsui and Co., Iran Ltd. (Iran) and Mitsui and Co. Kuwait W.L.L.(Kuwait). Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. owns offices in United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman. Mitsui has 10 representative offices in the Middle East countries including Saudi Arabia. These trading subsidiaries and offices in the Middle East are collaborating with the Head Office primarily in the field energy development and production and projects of petrochemical plants and power plants. Southwest Asia Our operations in India were traditionally handled by branch offices in New Delhi, Calcutta, Madras and Bombay and were concentrated primarily in exporting commodities, such as iron ore, finished iron and steel products, textiles, and marine products, to Japan and other areas of the world. However, with the increasing deregulation of the Indian economy, in March 2003 we established Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd. Through Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd, we expect not only to engage in import and export-related transactions but also to pursue investment opportunities in domestic distribution channels. 54 Table of Contents All Other Segment The operations of the All Other Segment include development and marketing of systems, financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥12.3 billion or 1.7% and ¥4.4 billion or 3.7% of our consolidated total, respectively. The All Other Segment has 16 subsidiaries and 1 associated company. The activities of major subsidiaries in this segment are as the following: • Bussan Credit Co., Ltd. (Japan)(*) is engaged in financial services such as commercial loan and cash management service, mainly provided to domestic subsidiaries and associated companies • Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) is engaged in planning, development, maintenance and operation of computer systems • Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. (Singapore) is engaged in-house financial services in the South East Asian region. (*) Bussan Credit Co., Ltd. (Japan) changed its corporate name to Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. in April 2005. Principal Markets We are involved in the worldwide trading of various commodities. The following table provides a breakdown of our revenues by commodity type for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 2005 (As Restated) (As Restated) Revenues(1),(2) Distribution by Commodity: Iron and Steel ¥ 407.1 ¥ 312.9 ¥ 281.8 Non-Ferrous Metals 161.4 157.2 152.1 Machinery 269.2 305.0 304.8 Electronics & Information 144.8 119.8 108.1 Chemicals 729.1 520.1 463.4 Energy 1,048.4 954.6 831.0 Foods 473.6 389.5 393.2 Textiles 43.0 32.8 37.9 General Merchandise 96.1 84.8 88.8 Property and Service Business 153.0 106.2 123.5 Consolidated Total ¥ 3,525.7 ¥ 2,982.9 ¥ 2,784.6 Notes: (1) Starting from the year ended March 31, 2005, we changed the presentation of financing revenues and costs of certain subsidiaries engaged mainly in external consumer financing, which were formerly reported as interest expense, net of interest income. In relation to this change, the figures of revenues for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. 55 Table of Contents (2) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, revenues from discontinued operations are eliminated from each product amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The following table shows our total trading transactions in each of our major markets for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.(1)(2)(3) In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 2005 (As Restated) (As Restated) Japan ¥ 7,736.5 ¥ 7,189.3 ¥ 7,102.7 United States 1,096.3 831.6 808.3 United Kingdom 200.4 159.7 154.1 China 608.1 421.2 350.9 All Other 3,973.7 3,682.3 3,058.2 Consolidated Total ¥ 13,615.0 ¥ 12,284.1 ¥ 11,474.2 Notes: (1) Total trading transactions is a voluntary disclosure and represents the gross transaction volume or the nominal aggregate value of the sales contracts in which we act as principal and transactions in which we serve as agent. Total trading transactions is not meant to represent sales or revenues in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Total trading transactions should not be construed as equivalent to, or a substitute or proxy for, revenues, or as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity or cash flows generated by operating, investing or financing activities. A substantial part of total trading transactions represents transactions in which title to and payment for the goods pass through us without physical acquisition and delivery through our inventories. We have included the information concerning total trading transactions because it is used by similar Japanese trading companies as an industry benchmark, and we believe it is a useful supplement to results of operations data as a measure of our performance compared to other similar Japanese trading companies. Total trading transactions is included in the measure of segment profit and loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. See Notes 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” and 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION” accompanying the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) Starting from the year ended March 31, 2005, we changed the presentation of financing revenues and costs of certain subsidiaries engaged mainly in external consumer financing, which were formerly reported as interest expense, net of interest income. In relation to this change, the figures of total trading transactions for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. (3) Total trading transactions are attributed to countries based on the location of customers. (4) In accordance with SFAS No. 144, total trading transactions to external customers from discontinued operations are eliminated from each geographic area amount and “Consolidated Total.” The figures for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. (5) Total trading transactions to the customers located in China, which were previously included in “All Other,” were separately presented in consideration of the importance of the amount for the year ended March 31, 2005. The figures for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. 56 Table of Contents C. Organizational Structure. We are a global general trading company and we conduct our business with our subsidiaries and associated companies. As of March 31, 2005, we had 427 subsidiaries and 296 associated companies that are accounted for by the equity method. The table below provides information on our significant subsidiaries as of March 31, 2005. We have supplementarily provided voting power where it differs from ownership interest. Ownership Voting Country of Interest Power Operating Segment Company Incorporation Principal Business (%) (%) Metal Products & Minerals Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 100.00 Sesa Goa Limited India Mining and sales of Indian iron ore and processing and sales of coke 51.00 Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 70.00 Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Australia Investments in Australian coal business 100.00 Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Netherlands Investments in a copper mine in Chile 61.90 Raw Materials Development Co., Ltd. United States Investments in ferrous raw materials business 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Raw Materials Development Corp. Japan Wholesale of ferrous and non- ferrous scrap and ferroalloys 100.00 Mitalco Inc. United States Aluminum smelting 100.00 Mitsui & Co. Metals Ltd. Japan Copper and aluminum metals marketing 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Construction Materials Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of construction materials and semi-assembled steel products 100.00 Tsuda Corporation(1) Japan Wholesale of steel products 100.00 Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. Singapore Wholesale and retail sale of steel products 85.00 Machinery, Electronics & Information MBK Project Holdings Ltd. Japan Investments in manufacturers of plant-related materials and equipment 100.00 Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. United States Freightcar leasing and management 100.00 Mitsui Power Ventures Limited United Kingdom Investments in power generation business 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Plant & Project Corp. Japan Sales of chemical plants and heavy machinery equipment 100.00 Clio Marine Inc. Liberia Shipping business 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Transportation System Co., Ltd.(2) Japan Monorail, new transportation systems and railway-related machinery 100.00 Toyota Chile S.A. Chile Import and sales of automobiles and auto parts in Chile 100.00 P.T. Bussan Auto Finance Indonesia Motorcycle retail finance 90.00 CM Pacific Maritime Corporation Liberia Shipping business 100.00 Mitsui Automotive Europe B.V. Netherlands Investments in automotive related companies and trades of automobiles 100.00 Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. Liberia Shipping business 100.00 Tombo Aviation Inc. United States Purchase, sales and leasing of aircraft 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Aerospace Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of helicopters and defence related systems 100.00 57 Table of Contents Ownership Voting Country of Interest Power Operating Segment Company Incorporation Principal Business (%) (%) Tombo Capital Corporation Japan Purchase, sales and leasing of aircraft 100.00 Telepark Corp.(3) Japan Sales of mobile phones and related telecommunication services 65.41 Xion Electronics, Inc.(4) Japan Investments in semiconductor device sales companies 100.00 Toyo Officemation, Inc. Japan Design, operation and maintenance of information systems 100.00 NextCom K.K. Japan Network integrator focused on multi-vendor and in-house developed solutions 47.72 47.46 Chemical P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak Indonesia Production and sales of anhydrous ammonia 55.00 Novus International, Inc. United States Production, marketing and sales of various feed supplements 65.00 Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio Brazil Production and sales of fertilizers 100.00 Nikken Fine Chemicals Co., Ltd. Japan Production and sales of sorbitol and related organic chemical products 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Agro Business Co., Ltd. Japan Development and sales of fertilizers and agricultural products 100.00 MITSUI BUSSAN SOLVENT & COATING CO., LTD. Japan Domestic sales, export and import, off-shore trade of solvents and coating materials 100.00 Daito Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Production and sales of industrial chemicals 70.00 Mitsui Bussan Plastics Co., Ltd. Japan Wholesale of raw materials and products of plastics 100.00 Nippon Trading Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of plastics and chemicals 48.34 48.82 Bussan Nanotech Research Institute Inc.(5) Japan Research and development of nano- products 100.00 Energy Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. Australia Sales of crude oil and condensate, development of Casino gas field in Australia 100.00 Wandoo Petroleum Pty Ltd Australia Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 70.00 100.00 Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited Australia Exploration and development of oil and natural gas 100.00 Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. Netherlands Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 77.89 60.00 Mitsui Gas Development Qatar B.V. Netherlands Development and production of natural gas and condensate 100.00 Mitsui LNG Nederland B.V. Netherlands Investments in Qatar LNG project 100.00 Mitsui & Co. (E&P) B.V. Netherlands Exploration, development, production and investments in oil and natural gas resources 100.00 Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. United Kingdom Physical and future trading of crude oil 100.00 Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 89.93 Endeavour Resources Limited United Kingdom Investments in Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. 100.00 Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment 100.00 58 Table of Contents Ownership Voting Country of Interest Power Operating Segment Company Incorporation Principal Business (%) (%) Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore Physical and future trading of crude oil and petroleum products 100.00 Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of liquefied petroleum gas in Japan 89.93 Overseas Petroleum Corporation Japan Exploration, development and investments in oil and gas 96.55 Consumer Products & Services Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Japan Manufacture and sales of food products 51.85 87.63 MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. Japan Wholesale of foods and beverages 99.87 WILSEY FOODS, INC. United States Investments in processed oil food company 90.00 DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. Japan Production, processing, and sales of broilers 72.33 Retail System Service Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of sundries and foodstuff to retailers 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Inter-fashion Ltd. Japan Planning and management of production and distribution of apparel 100.00 Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. Japan Real estate sales, leasing and management 100.00 MBK Laguna Inc. United States Investments in real estate-related businesses 100.00 Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. Japan Housing business 100.00 Logistics & Financial Markets Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. United Kingdom Energy derivatives dealing 100.00 Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. United States Trading of precious metals 100.00 Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. Japan Future commodities brokering 100.00 Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd. Japan Warehousing, customs clearance and real estate leasing 100.00 Bussan Capital Corp. Japan Securities investment, commercial finance and related activities 100.00 Mitsuibussan Insurance and Consulting Co., Ltd. Japan Property and casualty insurance consignment and agency services 100.00 Tri-Net (Japan) Inc. Japan International integrated transportation services 100.00 Tri-Net Logistics (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore International integrated transportation services 100.00 Americas Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. United States Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Canada Trade 100.00 Mitsui Brasileira Importação e Exportação S.A. Brazil Trade 100.00 Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc. United States Investments in steel-related businesses 100.00 Mitsui Steel, Inc. United States Wholesale and SCM service of steel products 100.00 Channel Terminal Corp. United States Investments in tank leasing business 100.00 Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. United States Sales of steel pipes 94.00 Mitsui Tubular Products, Inc. United States Sales of steel pipes 100.00 Mitsui Auto Steel Canada Inc. Canada Warehouse services for storage and handling of auto steel 100.00 Mitsui Comtek Corp. United States Electronics and IT-related business 100.00 59 Table of Contents Ownership Voting Country of Interest Power Operating Segment Company Incorporation Principal Business (%) (%) CornerStone Research & Development, Inc. United States Processing and packaging of healthcare foods and supplements 100.00 Westport Petroleum, Inc. United States International trading of petroleum products and crude oil 100.00 Portac, Inc. United States Manufacture of lumber and lumber products 100.00 Europe Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC United Kingdom Management of business in Europe and Africa 100.00 Mitsui & Co. UK PLC United Kingdom Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V. Netherlands Investments and financial services 100.00 Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH Germany Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. Benelux S.A./N.V. Belgium Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. France S.A.S. France Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. Italia S.p.A. Italy Trade 100.00 Other Overseas Areas Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong, China Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. China Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. Taiwan Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand Trade 100.00 Mitsiam International Ltd. Thailand Trade 52.91 55.00 Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Australia Trade 100.00 Mitsui & Co. (Middle East) E.C. Bahrain Trade 100.00 All Other Bussan Credit Co., Ltd.(6) Japan Financial services 100.00 Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. Japan Planning, development, maintenance and operation of computer systems 67.35 67.37 Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. Singapore Financial services 100.00 (1) Changed its corporate name to SINTSUDA CORPORATION in April 2005 (2) Changed its corporate name from Bussan Transportation System Co., Ltd. in July 2004 (3) Changed its corporate name from Mitsui & Associates Telepark Corporation in October 2004 (4) Changed its corporate name from Xion Holdings, Inc. in January 2005 (5) Changed its corporate name from Carbon Nanotech Research Institute Inc. in April 2004 (6) Changed its corporate name to Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. in April 2005 D. Property, Plants and Equipment. The following table provides a list of our principal property, plants and equipment as of March 31, 2005. Property, Plants and Equipment Description Size or Annual (Holder or Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Production Capacity User of Property (Sft: Square feet, Mt: Metric Ton) In Japan: Mitsuibussan Building Tokyo 1,321,572 Sft Office use (Corporate Headquarters) Osaka Mitsuibussan Building Osaka 463,404 Sft Office use 60 Table of Contents Property, Plants and Equipment Description Size or Annual (Holder or Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Production Capacity User of Property (Sft: Square feet, Mt: Metric Ton) Nagoya Mitsuibussann Building Nagoya 152,471 Sft Office use Hibiya Central Building Tokyo 509,841 Sft Office building for lease Bussan Building Annex Tokyo 210,705 Sft Office building for lease Company Housing & Dormitory Chiba 39,331 Sft Employees’ residential facility Human Resource Development Center Shizuoka 25,372 Sft Training facility Land and equipment (Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd.) Ishikawa 852,072 Sft Liquefied petroleum gas terminal Wakamatsu Building & Shinsuna Bayside Building (Bussan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 172,406 Sft Office building for lease Land (MITSUI FOODS Co., LTD) Saitama 71,171 Sft Distribution center Land and equipment (DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD.) Aomori 46,102 Sft Broiler processing factory Land and equipment (Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd.) Yamanashi 339,871 Sft Tea leaf processing factory Sun East Shinonome Building & Sun East Tatsumi Building (Nitto Logistics Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 129,221 Sft Office use and office building for lease Tojin Building (TOSHIN SOKO KAISHA, LTD.) Tokyo 26,759 Sft Office use and office building for lease Overseas: Office Space (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 199,524 Sft Office space leased from others Equipment (Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd.) Australia 7,760,000 Mt Mining equipment for coal Land and plants (Mitalco Inc.) United States 465,098 Sft Aluminium smelting factory Equipment (Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd.) Australia 21,099,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd.) Australia 2,449,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Sesa Goa Limited) India 2,573,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Land and plants (P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak) Indonesia 579,397 Sft Ammonia manufacturing plant Land and plants (Novus International, Inc.) United States 636,826 Sft Methionine production facility Shopping centers (MBK Newport Inc.) United States 186,237 Sft Leasing asset Chemical tank yard (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 11,495,355 Sft Chemical tank (1) Information on our mining activities related to Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd., Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd., and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. that are located in Australia is shown in “Iron and Steel Raw Materials Unit” of “B. Business Overview” in this Item and “Mining Activities” below. 61 Table of Contents In addition to the above, our major assets leased to others as of March 31, 2005 were as below: • Clio Marine Inc. (Liberia), Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. (Liberia) and LPG Transport Service Ltd. (Bermuda) own ocean vessels leased to foreign and domestic shipping companies whose combined book value amounting to ¥26 billion; • Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. (the United States) owns rolling stock mainly leased to railway companies in the Unites States amounting to ¥8 billion as book value; and • Tombo Aviation Inc. (the United States) and Tombo Capital Corporation (Japan) own aircraft leased to foreign and domestic airline companies amounting to ¥25 billion as book value of the total of two companies. For information on our oil and gas producing activities, see “Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. A portion of the land, buildings and equipment owned by us is subject to mortgages or other liens. As of March 31, 2005, the aggregate amount of such mortgages or other liens was ¥31.5 billion. We know of no material defect in our title to neither of any of the properties nor of any material adverse claim with respect to them, either pending or contemplated. We consider our offices and other facilities to be well maintained and believe that our plant capacity is adequate for our current requirements. For the information on plans to construct, expand or improve facilities, in particular those related to mineral resource projects and oil and gas projects, see relevant descriptions in “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Capital Expenditure,” “Metal Products & Minerals Segment” and “Energy Segment” of “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Mining activities” below in this section. We do not believe there are any material environmental issues that would affect the utilization of our assets. 62 Table of Contents Mining Activities The information regarding our mining activities are provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture or Investee(1) Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Type of Name of Mineral Fe Basis Means of Access to the Type of Mines(2) Location Resources(3) (%) Property Title/Lease Mine Power Source Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J Near Pannawonica, 200 km southwest of Cape Lambert Pisolite 57.1 Railway and port in Cape Lambert (owned by Robe River Iron Associates and operated by Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd.) Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia Open pit Supplied by Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd. West Angelas West Angelas, 330 km southeast of Cape Lambert Marra Mamba 62.2 Same as above Same as above Open pit Same as above Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mt. Whaleback Near the town of Newman, 426 km south of Port Headland Brockman Marra Mamba 62.262.6 Railway (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) and port in Port Headland (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) Mineral lease granted in 1967 under the Iron Ore (Mount Newman) Agreement Act 1964 scheduled to expire in 2009 with rights for successive renewals for 21 years Open pit Supplied by Alinta Ltd. (partially owned by the state) Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek 92 km north of Newman, 310 km south of Port Headland Channel Iron Deposit 57.6 Rail spur (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) connected to the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mount Newmani Joint Venture) and port inn Port Hedland (ownd and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) Mining lease granted in 1991 under the Iron Ore (Marillana Creek) Agreement Act 1991 scheduled to expire in 2012 with the right to extend for additional 42 years Open pit Supplied by Alinta Ltd. (partially owned by state) 63 Table of Contents Type of Name of Mineral Fe Basis Means of Access to the Type of Mines(2) Location Resources(3) (%) Property Title/Lease Mine Power Source Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia North Area(Yarrie)(Nimingarra) 210 km east of Port Headland Nimingarra 61.9 Railway (owned and operated by Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture) and port in Port Headland (owned and operated by Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Multiple mineral leases under the Iron Ore (Mount Goldsworthy) Agreement Act 1964 and the Iron Ore (Goldsworthy— Nimingarra) Agreement Act 1972. The last one expires in 2014, with rights of renewal over these leases for successive 21-year periods. Open pit Supplied by Alinta Ltd. (partially owned by state) Area C 120 km northwest of Newman, 37 km southwest of Yandi Marra Mamba 62.2 Rail spur (owned by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) connecting to the Yandi spur line (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) and then onto the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mount Newman Joint Venture) and port in Port Hedland (owned and operated by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Same as above Open pit Supplied by Alinta Ltd. (partially owned by state) Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited (51%) Goa and Karnataka, India Codli Goa, India Fines/Lumps 54.0 Barge and port in Mormugao Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Sonshi Goa, India Fines/Lumps 54.0 Barge and port in Mormugao Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Chitradurga Karnataka, India Fines/Lumps 60.0 Railway, truck and shipping facility at Mormugao and Chennai Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state Hospet Karnataka, India Fines/Lumps 60.0 Railway, truck and shipping facility at Mormugao and Chennai Combination of own lease and sub lease Open pit Supplied by state (1) The term “Investee” refers only to Sesa Goa Limited. (2) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (3) “Pisolite”, “Marra Mamba”, “Brockman”, “Channel Iron Deposit” and “Nimingarra” refer to the types of iron ore that are found in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. 64 Table of Contents COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest(2) Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Type of Means of Access to Type of Power Mines(3) Location Resources the Property Title/Lease Mine Source BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) (20%) Queensland, Australia Riverside In the Bowen Basin, 145 km west of Mackay Metallurgical coal Railway (Queensland Rail) and port in Mackay Leases granted by State and renewable subject to State’s discretion Open pit State owned grid South Walker Creek In the Bowen Basin, 145 km west of Mackay Metallurgical coal Same as above Same as above Open pit State owned grid Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla West of Muswellbrook in the Upper Hunter Valley Metallurgical coal and thermal coal Railway and port at Newcastle Leases granted by State Open pit State owned grid Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel In the Bowen Basin, 300 km west of Rockhampton Metallurgical coal and thermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State owned grid Moura Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Moura In the Bowen Basin 185 km southwest of Gladstone Metallurgical coal and thermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Open pit State owned grid German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek In the Bowen Basin, 250 km southwest of Mackay Metallurgical coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State owned grid (1) “BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.” indicates the name of the company established by BHP Billiton plc and Mitsui. (2) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. is our associated company in which Mitsui has 20% interest. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. is our subsidiary which owns interests in Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Moura Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture. (3) “Name of mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. 65 Table of Contents A brief history and the present condition of each of the above-mentioned mines, including the current state of development, if applicable, are provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J The development of Robe River project began in 1962(*) near Pannawonica. The Robe River project was commissioned and the first shipment was made in 1972. Iron ore reserves at the Mesa J production Base provide the cornerstone of Pannawonica’s sinter fines and lump output. Development of Mesa J began in 1992, and all mine administration, workshops, warehousing and other support facilities were integrated there in 1994. Process Plant 1 was commissioned in 1999 and Process Plant 2 in 2001. The plant processes clay-contaminated pisolite, sub-grade material which was once discarded, to reduce contaminants and retain on-specification ore. Total material hauled at Mesa J is between 65 and 75 million tonnes per year. From this production base, the joint venture produces approximately 32 million tonnes of iron ore each year. West Angelas The development of West Angelas began in 1998. Mining of ore commenced in March 2002. The West Angelas deposits contain Marra Mamba type iron ore with higher iron content than Robe River’s Mesa J mine. The West Angelas operation is comprised of an open pit mine; a crushing and screening ore processing plant producing lump and sinter fines iron ore, as well as stockpiling, reclaiming and train-loading facilities. Expansion of West Angelas mine is well advanced to increase its capacity from its current 20 million tonnes per year to 25 million tonnes per year by the third quarter of 2005. (*) The Robe River project was originally started by Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company, an iron and steel producer in the United States. Since then, there were major changes in ownership before Rio Tinto took a 53% stake in Robe River Iron Associates in 2000. Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mount Whaleback The joint venture began production in 1969 at the Mount Whaleback ore body. Today, production continues to be sourced from the major Mount Whaleback ore body and is complemented by production from other ore bodies. The facilities at Mount Whaleback include primary and secondary crushing plants with a nominal capacity of 35 million tonnes of product per year, a heavy media beneficiation plant with an annual capacity of 8 million tonnes and a train-loading facility. The mining plant and port facilities were originally built in the late 1960’s and have been maintained and enhanced many times since then. The Rapid Growth Project 2 (“RGP2”) was approved in October 2004. The project comprises increases in mine, rail and port capacity through the development of Ore Body 18, purchases of additional rolling stock and a new car dumper at Finucane Island. Engineering activities are well advanced, tendering procurement processes are underway and initial site activities have commenced. The project will increase installed capacity at Western Australian Iron Ore to 118 million tonnes per annum by the second half of 2006. Development costs are estimated at U.S.$575 million. (Mitsui share U.S.$40 million). Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek Development of the ore body began in 1991. This included construction of a rail connection to the existing Newman/ Headland rail line, crushing and screening facilities with an annual capacity of 10 million tonnes, ore stacker, mine load-out tunnel, and on-site administration infrastructure. The mine’s first shipment of iron ore was in March 1992. Following a number of modifications between 1994 and 2003, Yandi’s capacity has been increased to 42 million tonnes per year, including both fine and lump ores. 66 Table of Contents Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Mount Goldsworthy was commissioned in 1966 in North Area. The original Goldsworthy mine was closed in 1982 and mining operations ceased at Shay Bay in 1993. Since then, mining has continued from the adjacent Nimingarra mine and Yarrie mine. Area C The Area C Mine is operated by the Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture under the POSMAC JV arrangement. Area C Mine is located near the mines operated by the Yandi Joint Venture and it was officially opened in October 2003. First ore was railed from Area C to Port Headland in August 2003, with the first shipment of ore departing the port in September 2003. Area C represents the largest undeveloped Marra Mamba resource in the Pilbara region. The project involves developing mine infrastructure and a rail spur link to the existing Yandi/ Newman railway. Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited (51%) Goa and Karnataka, India Codli Sonshi Sesa Goa Limited commenced operations in 1954 in North Goa, India. Sesa Goa’s main mining operations are at the Codli and Sonshi mines. Goan ore tends to be relatively high in alumina content, and most Goan ore is beneficiated to raise the iron content. We acquired 51% interest in Sesa Goa in 1996. Chitradurga Hospet The main operation in Karnataka is at Chitradurga mine. A second mine is located at Hospet. These mines are equidistant from the part of Mormugao and Chennai and ore can be shipped from either port. COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Riverside In 1983, the joint venture commissioned the Riverside mine. Riverside mine produces metallurgical coal and has a production capacity of three million tonnes per year. Reserves from Riverside were depleted in March 2005. South Walker Creek South Walker Creek became operational in 1998. It produces pulverized coal injection fuel and minor quantities of by- product energy coal. South Walker Creek has a production capacity of four million tonnes per year. Exploration has increased the reserve base in the past year. BHP Mitsui Coal holds undeveloped leases in the Bowen Basin (principally, the areas of Wards Well, Poitrel, Kemmis-Walker and Nebo West). Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla Development consent was granted in 1996 and production commenced in 1999. Coal & Allied, Rio Tinto’s subsidiary in Australia, acquired its interest in Bengalla in 2001. Its coal preparation plant has a washing capacity of 8 million tonnes per year giving nominal product of 6.6 million tonnes per year. Its plant equipment consists of three stage double roll crushers, dense medium cyclones, spirals, a froth flotation unit, screen bowl centrifuges and automatic stackers/reclaimers. 67 Table of Contents Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel The Kestrel Coal mine, previously known as Gordonstone Mine commenced operation in 1992. Coal is extracted by underground mining. The mine has two longwall units that are operated alternately to minimize downtime and ensure seamless production and reliability. The Kestrel Preparation Plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash coking coal and high energy thermal coal. Production in 2004 was 3.3 million tonnes saleable high quality coking coal and export thermal coal, and the production is expected to rise to 5.5 million tonnes in a few years. Moura Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Moura The Moura Mine commenced operation in 1961. Since 1994, all production at Moura has been from its surface operation. Production tonnage has been increasing steadily throughout the years. Originally the mine was operated by BHP Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd, and after a few changes of ownership, Anglo Coal acquired a 51% share in 2002. In September 2003, the adjacent Theodore deposit was developed which further expanded its capacity. Anglo Coal Australia and Mitsui Coal Holdings intend to recapitalise their existing operations at the Moura mine and to establish two additional operations on adjacent tenures. The new and expanded operations will be known as the Dawson Complex. Joint venture’s capital expenditure is estimated in excess of U.S.$600 million and will include a new coal preparation plant, additional mining equipment, a coal conveying system for transporting coal, rail load out facilities and administration buildings. The additional coal will be made available for the market in 2007, and consequently annual production will increase from existing 7.0 million tonnes to 12.7 million tonnes of metallurgical and thermal coals. German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek Open pit mining commenced in 1981. Underground mining in the Central Colliery area started in 1984, while underground mining in the Southern Colliery area began in 1988. Grasstree is a new underground mine being developed within our existing German Creek operations lease area. This mine will produce hard coking coal for our export markets. The mine construction commenced in 2001, underground development work is now underway and the project is on schedule to commence full production in 2006. Lake Lindsay is a potential new open cut mine adjacent to German Creek. Exploration and feasibility studies are currently underway to bring this new mine to production in 2006, gradually increasing up to full production in 2009. 68 Table of Contents Production Tonnage IRON ORE In Thousands of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Joint Venture or Investee and Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Name of Mines Associated Company Location Production Share Production Share Production Share Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Pannawonica 31,024 10,238 30,240 9,979 31,155 10,281 West Angelas 19,560 6,455 14,181 4,680 7,342 2,423 Mount Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Mt. Whaleback 34,991 2,449 36,333 2,543 30,348 2,124 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Marillana Creek 40,898 2,863 40,548 2,838 35,410 2,479 Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia North Area (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 5,292 370 7,006 490 8,101 567 Area C 16,753 1,173 3,736 262 — — Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa 2,983 1,521 2,941 1,500 2,402 1,225 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka 2,063 1,052 1,556 794 1,255 640 TOTAL 153,564 26,121 136,541 23,086 116,013 19,739 Production Tonnage COAL In Thousands of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Joint Venture or Investee and Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Name of Mines Associated Company Location Production Share Production Share Production Share BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia Riverside 3,323 665 2,641 528 3,402 680 South Walker Creek 3,658 732 3,927 785 3,341 668 Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New South Wales, Australia 5,312 531 6,203 620 5,385 539 Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 3,282 656 3,322 664 4,091 818 Moura Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 7,023 3,441 5,964 2,922 5,845 2,786 German Creek Joint Venture (1) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 5,782 1,735 5,422 1,627 2,905 872 TOTAL 28,380 7,760 27,479 7,146 24,969 6,363 (1) Reflects production tonnage from our participation since July 2002. 69 Table of Contents Reserve Tonnage IRON ORE(1) In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Joint Venture or Investee and Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company Location Reserve Share Reserve Share Reserve Share Robe River Iron Associates (2) Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Pannawonica 172 57 200 66 230 76 West Angelas 418 138 440 145 455 150 Mount Newman Joint Venture (3) Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Mt. Whaleback 955 67 1,026 72 1,193 84 Yandi Joint Venture(3) Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Marillana Creek 901 63 641 45 687 48 Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture(3) Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia North Area 13 1 21 2 28 2 (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Area C 499 35 204 14 209 15 Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa 55 28 55 28 53 27 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka 30 15 20 10 20 10 TOTAL 3,043 404 2,607 382 2,875 412 (1) Reserve of Robe River Iron Associates is proved + probable marketable reserve. (“Marketable reserve” is tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses.) Reserve amounts of Mt. Newman, Yandi, Mt. Goldsworthy and Sesa Goa consist of proved + probable recoverable reserve. (“Recoverable reserve” is tonnage after accounting for extraction losses.) (2) Reserves of Robe River Iron Associates indicate reserves as of the end of December 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 2005 reserves mean reserves as of the end of December 2004. (3) Reserves of Mount Newman Joint Venture, Yandi Joint Venture and Mount Goldsworthy Joint Venture indicate reserves as of the end of June 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 2005 reserves means reserves as of the end of June 2004. COAL(1) In Millions of Tonnes Year Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Joint Venture or Investee and Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Name of Mines Associated Company Location Reserve Share Reserve Share Reserve Share BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia Riverside 3 1 5 1 7 1 South Walker Creek 92 18 96 19 60 12 Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New South Wales, Australia 161 16 166 17 185 19 Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 120 24 123 25 127 25 Moura Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 208 102 132 65 97 48 German Creek Joint Venture (2) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia 78 23 90 27 111 33 TOTAL 662 184 612 154 587 138 70 Table of Contents (1) Proved + Probable Marketable Reserve (“Marketable Reserve” is tonnage after accounting for extraction and processing and preparation losses.) (2) Reflects production tonnage from our participation since July 2002 onwards. We own 15% profit share of Valepar S.A., which owns 34% of profit share of the common stock and preferred stock of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”). Accordingly, CVRD’s 5.1% (34% × 15%) of its production and reserve amounts are indirectly attributable to us. The following table provides iron ore production and reserve amounts of CVRD and Mitsui’s share of the production and reserve amounts of CVRD. Production Tonnage (for the year ended December 31) Millions of Tonnes 2004 2003 2002 Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Production Share Production Share Production Share 211.3 10.8 188.3 9.6 168.7 8.6 Proven and Probable Reserves (as of December 31) Millions of Tonnes 2004 2003 2002 Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Total Mitsui’s Reserve Share Reserve Share Reserve Share 6,869.1 350.3 4,926.20 251.6 4,458.60 227.7 71 Table of Contents Oil and Gas Producing Activities The following table shows crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas production from our reserves for the three fiscal years indicated: Production Information Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1) Middle Middle Year Ended March 31, East Oceania Others Worldwide East Oceania Others Worldwide 2005 3 6 5 14 9 49 34 92 2004 2 8 5 15 — 45 29 74 2003 3 8 4 15 — 41 24 65 The following tables show proved reserves and proved developed reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas as of the ending date of three fiscal years indicated: Proved Reserve Information: Proved Reserves Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1) Middle Middle Year Ended March 31, East Oceania Others Worldwide East Oceania Others Worldwide At March 31, 2005 24 78 92 194 75 840 1393 2,308 At March 31, 2004 23 49 127 199 84 873 965 1,922 At March 31, 2003 28 52 71 151 — 1,200 221 1,421 Proved Developed Reserves(2) Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1) Middle Middle Year Ended March 31, East Oceania Others Worldwide East Oceania Others Worldwide At March 31, 2005 24 20 18 62 75 356 82 513 At March 31, 2004 23 21 19 63 84 330 69 483 At March 31, 2003 28 26 18 72 — 364 58 436 (1) 1 barrel of crude oil = 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas (2) The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves is about 25 percent as of March 31, 2005 and relatively low. The expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves are estimated to be ¥314 billion in total as of March 31, 2005. The major undeveloped reserves are attributable to an associated company in Russia and an associated company in Australia. It is expected to commence the production of crude oil in 2006 and LNG in 2007, for the associated company in Russia. In relation to the associated company in Australia, the production of crude oil and LNG has already commenced at the existing facilities. The drilling of additional development wells will be performed over the project life according to the drilling program of the project. Information on our oil and gas producing activities is shown in the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. And also see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results by Operating Segment — Results of Operations for the Year Ended 31, 2005 — Energy Segment.” 72 Table of Contents Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements, that appear elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. As used in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, “Mitsui” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Bussan Kabushiki Kaisha), and “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to indicate Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. In the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the “Company” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd., and the “companies” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Note” throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects relate to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. Throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, we describe the domicile of our subsidiaries and associated companies, in parentheses following names of those companies. For example, Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) means that the company’s name is Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. and that it is domiciled in the United Kingdom. Operations of a subsidiary that either have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale have been accounted for as discontinued operations under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) This means that income statement and cash flow information are reclassified for all years presented to separate the discontinued operations from our continuing operations. This presentation is required by U.S. GAAP and facilitates historical and future trend analysis of our continuing operations. Subsequent to the issuance of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2004, we decided to classify financing revenues and costs of certain subsidiaries engaged mainly in external consumer financing from interest expense, net of interest income to other sales and cost of other sales, respectively. This change reflects the growing financing operations of the subsidiaries and has been made to more fairly present their financing transactions in the Statements of Consolidated Income. Specifically, we reclassified the financing revenues and costs from interest expense, net of interest income to other sales and cost of other sales, respectively, and restated the Statements of Consolidated Income for the prior years to conform to the current year presentation. 73 Table of Contents Key Performance Measures Under Management’s Discussion Although our operating results and financial condition are influenced by various factors, management believes that as of the end of the fiscal year under review the following indicators can be usefully employed to discuss trends in our performance and financial condition. Gross Profit, Operating Income* and Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies We undertake worldwide trading in various commodities, involving diversified risk-return profiles, from conventional intermediary services as agent to development and production of mineral resources and energy. In this context, changes in the amounts of gross profit, operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies by operating segment reflect the overall progress of our businesses, and greatly affect the amount of net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income. For further information, please refer to the table of “Operating segment information” and subsequent discussions in “Operating Results by Operating Segment” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. Trends in the Price of and Supply-Demand for Mineral Resources and Energy Our operating results are influenced by conditions of various commodity markets. In recent years, our operating results have been influenced by supply-demand balance and price fluctuations for mineral resources and energy that have been driven principally by expanding demand from China, and the importance of our mineral resources and energy operations in our overall operating results has increased. For further information regarding trends and prospects in this field, please refer to the sections relating to the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and the Energy Segment in “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Investment Plans and Financial Leverage We are engaged in expanding our investments in core areas such as development projects of mineral resources and energy and infrastructure projects including power generation and also in developing and strengthening new businesses in consumer-oriented and other growing key areas. Based on our Medium-Term Strategic and Financial Plan ending March 2006 as announced in May 2004, each of our operating segments is expanding these business investments. Mitsui is monitoring and managing our financial leverage with a view of securing efficient return on equity as well as maintaining and improving credit ratings and obtaining a stable supply of funding in order to secure the capital resources required for these investments and to refinance our interest-bearing debt. For further discussion on these investments and related financial policies, please refer to “B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. * Operating Income Operating income is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income is comprised of our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses, (c) provision for doubtful receivables and (d) government grant for transfer of substitutional portion of the Employee Pension Fund (“EPF”), as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. 74 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Operating Environment The global economy continued the steady improvement that began in the middle of the year ended March 31, 2004. Principal developments in the economic environment that influenced our results of operations during the year ended March 31, 2005 included the following: • The global economy expanded steadily, driven by growth in the United States as well as emerging countries in Asia, particularly China, and other regions. Contributing factors included higher consumption and housing investment resulting from historically low interest rates as well as acceleration of demand for motor vehicles and firm infrastructure developments in emerging economies. • These factors contributed to a substantial increase in global trade, supported by very strong demand from Asia, particularly China, and spurred the rising trend in commodity prices such as crude oil, iron ore, coal and non-ferrous metals since the previous fiscal year. • The Japanese economy continued to recover in the first half of the year under review, underpinned by strong exports to high-growth areas of Asia, and higher capital expenditure as corporate earnings improved in Japan. In the second half of the fiscal year, however, economic recovery slowed down especially in the manufacturing section in response to inventory adjustments in the home electronic equipment and IT-related markets as well as concerns about oil price rise. • The Bank of Japan continued its quantitative easing policy, and short-term interest rates remained very low. In the United States, meanwhile, the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) began progressively raising interest rates beginning in June 2004 in order to restrain inflationary expectations. Summary of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 For the year ended March 31, 2005, we recorded net income of ¥121.1 billion, an increase of ¥52.7 billion, or 77.0%, from ¥68.4 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004. As outlined below, gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies made significant contributions, while the increase in net other income and expenses was relatively small. • Gross profit increased by ¥111.9 billion, or 18.2%, to ¥725.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared with ¥613.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Overseas subsidiaries in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment generated higher gross profit due to price rises and increased shipments of iron ore and coal while gross profit grew in the Energy Segment supported by higher crude oil prices. In addition, market transactions in areas such as commodity derivatives and oil trading performed well. • Net other income and expenses increased ¥25.1 billion, or 4.8%, to ¥550.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared to ¥525.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. — Compensation and other charges related to DPF incident of ¥36.0 billion was recorded for user response plans including free product replacement and compensation for relevant subsidy providers relating to diesel particulate filters (“DPF”s), which is discussed in “Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 — Compensation and Other Charges Related to DPF incident” below. — Selling, general and administrative expenses increased ¥24.5 billion in the year ended March 31, 2005, largely because there was no government grant for the transfer of the substitutional portion of the Employee Pension Fund (“EPF”, compared to ¥17.2 billion recorded in the year ended March 31, 2004. 75 Table of Contents — With regard to loss on write-down of securities and other expense — net, the figures recorded in these categories for the year under review reflect the absence of large one-time expenses such as those recorded in the year ended March 31, 2004 of ¥21.7 billion for the write-down of securities relating to investment in the Japanese telecommunications carrier POWERDCOM, Inc. and ¥13.7 billion for the settlement of an antitrust lawsuit filed against a feed ingredient manufacturing subsidiary Bioproducts, Inc. (the United States). • Equity in earnings of associated companies rose by ¥25.8 billion, or 64.3%, to ¥65.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared with ¥40.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. As was the case with gross profit, this reflected the strong performance of associated companies in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and the Energy Segment that benefited from the rise in commodity prices. Due to the increase in gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies outlined above, net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 from overseas subsidiaries and associated companies reached ¥117.9 billion, significantly higher than the ¥53.5 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on net income for the year ending March 2006 will depend on the net income denominated in local currencies of overseas subsidiaries and associated companies; however, based on net income in the business plans of these companies covering the year ending March 2006, yen’s appreciation by ¥1 against 1 U.S. dollar would have the net effect of reducing net income by approximately ¥1.3 billion. During the year ended March 31, 2005 the U.S. dollar continued to weaken against the yen, against a background of worsening current account and federal deficits and higher oil prices. The average U.S. dollar-yen exchange rate during the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥107.60 = U.S.$1, representing yen appreciation of ¥5.16, or 4.6%, over the average rate during the year ended March 31, 2004 of ¥112.76 = U.S.$1. Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Revenues In accordance with U.S. GAAP, revenues are reported based on the gross amount billed to a customer or on the net amount retained (that is, the amount billed to a customer less the amount paid to a supplier). Revenues are reported based on gross amounts for transactions where we have the related risks and rewards such as transactions where we are a primary obligor in the arrangement, and/or assume general inventory risk without any significant mitigation of our risk level. Revenues are reported based on net amounts where we assume a low degree of related risks and rewards, effectively acting as an agent for the applicable products or services. A typical example is a transaction where we receive a commission or fee at a fixed rate based on transaction volume or amount. We classified our revenues into sales of products, sales of services and other sales with the corresponding costs of revenues. Sales of Products Sales of products include the sale of various products as a principal in transactions, the manufacture and sale of a wide variety of products such as metals, chemicals, food and machinery, the development, production and sale of natural resources such as coal, iron ore, oil and gas, and the development and sale of real estate. 76 Table of Contents During the year ended March 31, 2005, sales of products were ¥2,980.8 billion, an increase of ¥490.8 billion, or 19.7%, from the ¥2,490.0 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004. The major reasons classified by products are as follows: • Revenues from sales of chemicals rose ¥208.2 billion principally because of increases in Mitsui’s sales of petrochemical products, reflecting higher prices for petroleum products due to higher crude oil prices, and increases in volume driven by the strong demand in China and other Asian countries. • Revenues from sales of energy increased by ¥86.3 billion. The average crude oil price (basis of Japan Crude Cocktail) during the year ended March 31, 2005 was U.S.$36 per barrel, compared to U.S.$29 for the year ended March 31, 2004, driven by strong demand from China and uncertainty in supply from the Middle East and other areas. In this environment, revenues from sales of crude oil and oil products increased at Westport Petroleum Inc. (the United States) and revenues increased domestically as oil product sales companies, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. (Japan) were able to transfer higher crude oil cost in their wholesale and retail pricing. • Revenues from sales of iron and steel increased ¥85.3 billion. In the year ended March 31, 2005, with long-term contract prices for iron ore 18.6% higher than in the year ended March 31, 2004, subsidiaries in mineral resource business such as Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) achieved higher revenues. Also, supported by a strong market for steel products in North America, China and elsewhere in Asia, Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (the United States), engaged in oil pipe sales, recorded higher revenues. Sales of Services Sales of services include the revenues from trading margins and commissions related to various trading transactions in which we act as a principal or an agent. Specifically, we charge a commission for the performance of various services such as logistic and warehouse services, information and communication services and technical support. For some back-to-back sales and purchase transactions of products, we act as a principal and record the net amount of sales and purchase prices as revenues. We also facilitate conclusion of the contracts between manufacturers and customers and deliveries of the products between suppliers and customers. For the year ended March 31, 2005, sales of services were ¥435.2 billion, an increase of ¥10.7 billion, or 2.5%, from ¥424.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Principal reasons for this increase included higher revenues from information and communications services accompanying the acquisition of former associated company NextCom K.K. (Japan) during the year ended March 31, 2005, and strong performance in cell phone sales at Telepark Corp. (Japan). Other Sales Other sales principally include the revenues from derivative commodity instruments and derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes, the revenues from leasing activities of real estate, aircraft, ocean transport vessels, rolling stock and equipment and the revenues from external consumer financing. For the year ended March 31, 2005, other sales were ¥109.8 billion, an increase of ¥41.4 billion, or 60.5%, from ¥68.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, which was primarily attributable to: • Derivative trading revenues were ¥45.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥27.2 billion from ¥18.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The principal reasons for this increase were strong crude oil trading performance at Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) and strong energy derivatives trading at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) in the context of extremely high volatility in the crude oil market; and • Leasing revenues were ¥55.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥13.2 billion from ¥42.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. 77 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues For the year ended March 31, 2005, gross profit (“GP”) was ¥725.8 billion, an increase of ¥111.9 billion, or 18.2%, from ¥613.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The GP ratio (the ratio of GP to revenues) for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 20.6%, in line with the year ended March 31, 2004. Changes in GP and GP ratio classified by category of revenues are set forth below: Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2005 As Restated Change GP GP Ratio GP GP Ratio GP GP Ratio Gross profit from sales of products ¥296.6 10.0 % ¥197.4 7.9 % ¥ 99.2 2.1 % Gross profit from sales of services 366.2 84.1 % 383.1 90.2 % (16.9 ) (6.1 )% Gross profit from other sales 63.0 57.4 % 33.4 48.8 % 29.6 8.6 % Total ¥725.8 20.6 % ¥613.9 20.6 % ¥111.9 0.0 % The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 10.0%, an increase of 2.1 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was mainly due to the rate of increase in revenue at our natural resources development subsidiaries outpacing the rate of increase in costs of revenues, due to the surge in prices for natural resources. In particular, Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), both of which are engaged in the development and production of iron ore, saw significant increases in gross profit driven by rising prices of iron ore, as did Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) which is engaged in the development and production of metallurgical coal and thermal coal. In the product of energy, gross profit increased at Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) which is engaged in development and production of crude oil in Oman due to a major rise in crude oil prices. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 84.1%, a decrease of 6.1 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. This decrease was mainly due to a relative increase in transactions where the total billed amounts were reported as revenues, compared to transactions where the net amount of sales and purchase prices were reported as revenues with GP ratio of 100%. Specifically, NextCom K.K. (Japan), formerly an associated company, became a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, which resulted in an increase in the transactions for which gross billed amounts are reported as revenue in network configuration, operation and maintenance services. Also at Mitsui, an increase in such transactions was recorded in the logistic services business. Moreover, at Mitsui and many of its subsidiaries, transactions reported based on net amounts, where we assume a low degree of related risks and rewards declined relatively. The GP ratio in other sales for the year ended March 31, 2005 was 57.4%, an increase of 8.6 points compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was mainly due to a major increase in revenues from derivative commodity instruments held for trading purpose reported in net amount, principally an increase in revenues from crude oil trading at Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), energy derivative transactions at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), and commodities derivative and foreign exchange transactions at Mitsui, generally driven by the extremely high volatility in the crude oil markets. Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment For the year ended March 31, 2005, the growth in gross profit was attributable to the operating segments as set forth below: • The Metal Products & Minerals Segment recorded significant increases, as the market for metal raw materials and products rose on strong demand from Asia, particularly China, along with an 78 Table of Contents increase in transaction volume. For the year ended March 31, 2005, iron ore prices under long term contracts rose 18.6%. Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded major increases. And Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia), which is involved in the development of metallurgical coal and thermal coal, also increased gross profit. Steel products operations for the year ended March 31, 2005 generally maintained similar levels of transaction volume to the year ended March 31, 2004, amid price rises and tight demand, with higher gross profit at Mitsui and at domestic and overseas subsidiaries. • In the Energy Segment, Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) generated significant profit increases as a result of focusing on crude oil trading after reporting losses on petroleum product trading in the year ended March 31, 2004. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), which is engaged in crude oil production in Oman, and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia), our crude oil and condensate focused subsidiary, saw increased gross profit reflecting rising oil prices. • The Consumer Products & Services Segment was firm on the sale of large-scale commercial facilities and residential subdivisions by MBK Real Estate Ltd. (the United States), along with Mitsui’s commodity trading including grain and raw sugar. Moreover, as Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) became a subsidiary from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2005 — the first year of a full-year contribution — rose ¥5.1 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. • In the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) generated increases in energy derivative trading reflecting the extremely high volatility in the crude oil market. Mitsui’s commodities derivative and foreign exchange transactions also produced good results. • In the Americas Segment, there were broad expansions in gross profit at steel product subsidiaries including Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc. (the United States) driven by active demand and firm market prices. Portac, Inc. (the United States), our lumber and lumber products subsidiary, also saw increased gross profit on surging lumber prices. Gross profit rose ¥19.9 billion for subsidiaries acquired or established from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004 to the end of the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Those subsidiaries include NextCom K.K. (Japan), formerly an associated company which has become a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, and Mitsui Norin Co. Ltd. (Japan) as mentioned above. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥518.9 billion, an increase of ¥24.5 billion, or 5.0%, from ¥494.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main reasons for this change are listed below: • Personnel expenses were ¥257.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, a decrease of ¥3.3 billion from ¥260.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Personnel expenses at Mitsui improved significantly because of a ¥19.2 billion reduction in amortization of unrecognized net actuarial loss, and operating results for the year ended March 31, 2005 were not impacted by a ¥10.5 billion settlement loss recorded during the year ended March 31, 2004 in relation to the completion of the transfer to the Japanese government of the substitutional portion of the Mitsui Employee Pension Fund (“EPF”). Meanwhile, there was a considerable increase in personnel expenses mainly at overseas subsidiaries. Especially, personnel expenses at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) and Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), on the back of major increases in gross profit from commodities trading, rose ¥4.6 billion and ¥3.6 billion, respectively, due to large increases in performance linked bonuses to traders. 79 Table of Contents • Communication and information expenses were ¥38.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥5.2 billion over ¥33.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase resulted from the introduction of a new enterprise resource planning system and implementation of a total overhaul of office automation equipment in Mitsui. • Selling, general and administrative expenses other than personnel and communication and information expenses were ¥176.7 billion in the year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of ¥22.1 billion from ¥154.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. There was an increased expense of ¥7.4 billion at domestic subsidiaries, mainly due to the ¥3.0 billion increases at the above-mentioned Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan). Telepark Corp. (Japan) also recorded an increase of ¥1.9 billion reflecting the expanded cell phone business. Overseas subsidiaries recorded an increase of ¥7.9 billion, including ¥1.0 billion at P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia), reflecting an expansion in business activities. There was also an increased expense of ¥6.4 billion including office administration costs and various stamp duties. In the same manner as gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses rose ¥14.6 billion at subsidiaries acquired or established from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004 to the end of the year ended March 31, 2005. Provision for Doubtful Receivables Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥8.9 billion, a reduction of ¥1.0 billion, or 10.1%, from ¥9.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. In both the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, provision for doubtful receivables consisted mainly of individually small provisions for a number of customers. Of those, the major provisions for doubtful receivables in the year ended March 31, 2005 included a ¥0.9 billion provision for a machinery-related domestic customer, while overseas there was a ¥0.8 billion provision for an overseas customer of Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom). The major provisions for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2004 included provisions against overseas customers for machinery related transactions, and provisions for domestic and overseas customers in the steel products business. Interest Expense, Net of Interest Income Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥35.5 billion, an increase of ¥5.5 billion, or 18.3%, from the ¥30.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Interest expenses were ¥43.6 billion, an increase of ¥7.7 billion, or 21.4%, from ¥35.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income was ¥8.1 billion, an increase of ¥2.2 billion, or 37.3%, from ¥5.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. A breakdown of the principal changes for the year ended March 31, 2005 is as follows: • At Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. (Netherlands), investments increased to Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), and interest expenses rose ¥1.8 billion on the resultant increase in borrowings; and • Interest expenses at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A) Inc. (the United States) rose ¥1.7 billion reflecting a rise in U.S. dollar interest rate. Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2005 for the Japanese yen and U.S. dollar, the major currencies in which we have borrowings, are as follows: • The average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month LIBOR remained 0.05%, roughly unchanged from the 0.06% during the year ended March 31, 2004, as the Bank of Japan maintained its existing very low interest rate policy. The average interest rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.52%, rising from the 1.16% during the year ended March 31, 2004, as 80 Table of Contents yields slipped gradually in line with the emergence of perceptions of a slowing in the business cycle, after a rise to 1.9% in June 2004 on the back of an improvement in global business sentiment; and • The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2005 was 2.13%, up from the 1.16% during the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting the gradual rise in the Federal Funds target rate to 3.0% by the FRB in the period between June 2004 and May 2005, even as the FRB maintained its easing stance. Dividend Income Our dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥24.6 billion, an increase of ¥6.2 billion, or 33.7%, from ¥18.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Dividends from LNG projects in the Middle East (Abu Dhabi, Oman and Qatar) were ¥12.8 billion, a ¥4.7 billion increase from the ¥8.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting their strong performance due to higher oil prices. Government Grant for Transfer of Substitutional Portion of EPF On March 12, 2004, Mitsui completed the transfer of the substitutional portion of EPF, which is a defined benefit pension program established under the Welfare Pension Insurance Law, to the Japanese government. As a result, in the year ended March 31, 2004 a government grant for transfer of the substitutional portion of EPF of ¥17.2 billion was recorded. The grant represents the difference between the accumulated benefit obligations settled with regard to the substitutional portion and the related government-specified portion of the plan assets that were transferred. For information concerning the accounting for the transfer of the substitutional portion of EPF, see Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES.” Gain on Sales of Securities — Net The net realized gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥34.9 billion, an increase of ¥7.4 billion, or 26.9% from ¥27.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The following is a breakdown of main points related to net gains on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2005. • In the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, we reported a ¥7.2 billion gain on the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K., a Japanese cell-phone carrier, in response to a tender offer, and a ¥4.1 billion gain in Mitsui & Associates Telepark Corporation (Japan), a subsidiary engaged in sales of mobile devices and fixed telecommunication lines, following its initial public offering and listing on the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. (Mitsui & Associates Telepark Corporation changed its name to Telepark Corp. in October 2004.) Also in December 2004, in connection with the merger of a formerly associated company (equity method investee) NextCom K.K. (public company in Japan), a software development and marketing subsidiary BSI Co., Ltd. (non-public company), and a data telecommunications equipment marketing subsidiary ADAM NET Ltd. (non-public company), Mitsui was allotted shares in NextCom K.K. in exchange for shares in two subsidiaries and recorded a ¥3.7 billion gain from the exchange of shares of those two subsidiaries to the extent of the share-down; • In the Consumer Products & Services Segment, we recorded a combined ¥4.0 billion gain on sales of shares of netprice, ltd. and VeriTrans, Inc. when they were listed on domestic stock exchanges; and • In the Chemical and the Other Overseas Areas Segments, we sold shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited, a maker of high density polyethylene, and recorded a gain of ¥3.9 billion. In the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a gain of ¥6.7 billion from the sale of shares of SKY Perfect Communications Inc. in the Consumer Products & Services Segment, a gain of ¥4.4 billion from 81 Table of Contents the sale of Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, and a gain of ¥1.0 billion from the sale of MODEC Inc. in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment. Gain on Issuance of Stock by a Subsidiary As mentioned above in Gains on Sales of Securities — Net, Mitsui & Associates Telepark Corporation registered and issued 8,000 shares of common stock in an initial public offering on the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange in April 2004. As a result of the public offering, our ownership interest in Mitsui & Associates Telepark Corporation decreased and we recognized a gain of ¥1.7 billion on this issuance as a separate line item in the Statements of Consolidated Income, under gain on issuance of stock by a subsidiary, in addition to a ¥4.1 billion gain on securities discussed above. For further information, see Note 19, “ISSUANCE OF STOCK BY SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES.” Loss on Write-Down of Securities For the year ended March 31, 2005, the loss on write-down of securities was ¥16.5 billion, a decrease of ¥14.5 billion, or 46.8%, from the ¥31.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Stock prices in Japan started to rebound around in May 2003 as the Japanese government’s decision to inject funds into certain banks reduced concerns about the stability of the financial system. Stocks continued to recover towards the end of March 2004 supported by improvements in corporate profits and gradual economic recovery. For the year ended March 31, 2005, within a narrow range between a high of ¥12,163.89 and a low of ¥10,505.05 in the Nikkei Stock Average, the Japanese stock markets experienced repeated minor adjustments due to surging crude oil prices, concern over worldwide inflation, appreciation of the yen and a slowdown in the United States economy. However, the stock markets were underpinned by hopes for recoveries of domestic and overseas economies and an expansion in corporate profits. The Nikkei Stock Average closed at ¥11,668.95, ¥11,715.39, and ¥7,972.71 on March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Reflecting these developments in the stock market, the write-down of marketable securities for the year ended March 31, 2005 reduced slightly to ¥0.6 billion from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. With respect to non-marketable securities, considering a deterioration in financial conditions due to sluggish advertising revenue, we recorded losses on shares of satellite broadcaster BS-I, INCORPORATED (not the same company as BSI Co., Ltd., listed under Gains on Sales of Securities — Net) and BS Japan Corporation of ¥1.9 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. MBK Australia Resorts Pty, Ltd. (Australia) reported a write-down of ¥1.7 billion based on the estimated sale price for its investment in Mirage Resorts business in Australia. There were also other instances of small losses. For the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a ¥21.7 billion loss on shares in POWEREDCOM, Inc, a Japanese telecommunications company, in consideration of the deterioration in its financial position, reflecting the operating loss caused by fierce price competition along with expansion of the Internet and the decrease in revenues from fixed-line business. Setting aside the ¥1.5 billion loss on shares in Mitsui Denman (Ireland) Co., Ltd., write-downs of other non-marketable securities were not significant. (Gain) Loss on Disposal or Sales of Property and Equipment — Net For the year ended March 31, 2005, gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment — net was ¥6.5 billion, an increase of ¥2.4 billion, or 58.5%, over ¥4.1 billion in the year ended March 31, 2004. In addition to a ¥3.2 billion gain from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories, there was a ¥1.8 billion gain from the sale of warehouses for lease by a logistics-related subsidiary, Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (the United States). For the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a ¥5.7 billion gain from the sale of our corporate residences and dormitories. Those sold in the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 had been acquired 82 Table of Contents long before the significant land price increase in Japan in the late 1980s and early 1990s. We also recorded small losses on the sale of aircraft and gas stations for the year ended March 31, 2004. Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets The impairment loss of long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥21.5 billion, a ¥0.9 billion, or 4.0% decrease from ¥22.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2005 were as follows. • In the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, we reported a ¥6.5 billion impairment loss on plant facilities at an aluminum smelting subsidiary, Mitalco Inc. (the United States), reflecting the rising trend of electricity costs; • We recorded a ¥3.3 billion impairment loss on land for development purposes and a loss of ¥1.3 billion on land for lease, both held domestically by Mitsui; and • In the Energy Segment, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded an impairment loss of ¥2.3 billion mainly on gas stations. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2004 were as follows: • Impairment losses on Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories of ¥8.0 billion were recorded due to a decline in land prices in Japan. The corporate residences and dormitories on which we recorded impairment losses during the year ended March 31, 2004 had been acquired mainly in the early 1990s; • In the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, there were impairment losses of ¥4.3 billion that resulted from the exit from and disposal of certain business at NBI Corporation (formerly Toyo Valve Co., Ltd.) and Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd.; • A combined ¥2.8 billion loss was reported at two domestic subsidiaries that operate golf courses; and • In the Energy Segment, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported ¥1.7 billion in impairment losses in connection with the restructuring of its gas stations. For more information on impairment losses on long-lived assets, see Note 10, “IMPAIRMENT LOSS OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS,” and on our reevaluation and restructuring of subsidiaries and associated companies, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Compensation and Other Charges Related to DPF Incident In November 2004, Mitsui discovered that false data had been produced and submitted to authorities for diesel particulate filters (“DPF“s) manufactured by Mitsui’s subsidiary, PUREarth Incorporated (Japan), and sold by Mitsui. These filters were subsidized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and seven other prefectural and municipal governments, as well as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of the Environment, and related industry associations. Mitsui sold approximately 21,500 units of the product. Mitsui is carrying out a three-part user response plan involving: (1) the free replacement of DPFs, (2) the reimbursement of the amount paid for purchasing Mitsui’s DPFs in exchange for their redemption and (3) a support program for the purchase of alternative vehicles. In addition, Mitsui has been proceeding with full compensation of relevant subsidies. For the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui recorded ¥36.0 billion as compensation and other charges related to DPF incident in the Statements of Consolidated Income, consisting of a user response charge of approximately ¥28.0 billion and subsidy compensation of approximately ¥8.0 billion. The user response charge was estimated based on expected costs in each user response plan, which reflects the requirement of each respective user. 83 Table of Contents The subsidy compensation was recorded based on the amounts claimed by subsidy providers. As of the end of June 2005, most of the subsidy compensation amount has been paid. For more information please see Note 22, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” Other Expense — Net For the year ended March 31, 2005, other expense — net was ¥7.8 billion, a significant decrease of ¥20.9 billion, or 72.8%, from ¥28.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main elements of other expense — net for the year ended March 31, 2005 were: • the recording of ¥2.5 billion in exploration expenses, reflecting an expansion in exploration activities at our petroleum and gas development and production subsidiaries, including Wandoo Petroleum Pty Ltd. (Australia); and • the recording of ¥2.0 billion in restructuring-related charges, mainly representing costs related to the termination of an indemnity agreement which had been made in connection with the sale of a ceramic building materials and fiberboard business at Mitsui Wood Systems, Inc. (Japan) in October 2001. Other expense — net for the year ended March 31, 2004 mainly consisted of: • litigation charges of ¥13.7 billion related to the settlement of an antitrust lawsuit filed against our subsidiary, Bioproducts, Inc. (the United States), which manufactures and sells feed ingredient; and • restructuring-related charges of ¥6.3 billion, of which main elements included a combined ¥3.7 billion for Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. (Japan) and NBI Corporation (Japan) in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment. With regard to litigation charges related to Bioproducts, Inc., other related lawsuits are still pending. Although there can be no assurance of the ultimate results, management believes that there is less than a reasonable possibility that losses in addition to amounts that have been reserved for possible litigation losses will occur, and that the amount of any such additional losses would not have a material impact on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For more details, see Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” For more information on other expense — net, see Note 20, “OTHER EXPENSE — NET,” and on our restructuring activities, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Income Taxes For the year ended March 31, 2005, income taxes amounted to ¥103.6 billion, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before minority interests and equity in earnings, and recorded a major rise of ¥56.6 billion, or 120.4%, from ¥47.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The effective tax rate was 59.0%, an increase of 6.0 points from 53.0% for the year ended March 31, 2004. This was mainly due to the impact of: • increases in the effect of taxation on dividends from subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures (an increase of 5.7 points from the year ended March 31, 2004); and • increases in valuation allowance provided on deferred tax assets (an increase of 3.6 points over the year ended March 31, 2004), due mainly to the increase in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets on the impairment loss of certain of Mitsui’s investments recorded in the past years as a result of a change in a policy to sell certain investments. For further information, see Note 21, “INCOME TAXES.” 84 Table of Contents Minority Interests in Earnings of Subsidiaries Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥17.6 billion, an increase of ¥10.1 billion, or 134.7%, from ¥7.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Our major minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2005 were ¥5.0 billion in Sesa Goa Limited (India) (with a minority interest of 49%) and ¥2.9 billion in Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) (with a minority interest of 38.1%) that owns an interest in a Chilean copper mine joint venture, Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile). Our major minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2004 were ¥1.5 billion in Sesa Goa Limited and ¥0.7 billion in Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Increases for the year ended March 31, 2005 were primarily attributable to the strong performances of the above-mentioned two subsidiaries on the back of rises in prices of mineral resources. Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies — Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2005, equity in earnings of associated companies — net (after income tax effect) posted a gain of ¥65.9 billion, a significant increase of ¥25.8 billion, or 64.3%, from ¥40.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. • Since the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), a holding company of the Brazilian iron ore and mineral resources company, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”), have been included. In the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, earnings of Valepar S.A. and Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) increased to ¥6.4 billion and ¥7.8 billion, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared to ¥2.5 billion and ¥1.9 billion, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2004. • In the Energy Segment, earnings increased significantly at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty Ltd. (Australia) which is involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in West Australia, due to rising oil prices and increased production on the back of facility expansion. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) which is chiefly engaged in the production of gas and crude oil in offshore Thailand, also recorded an increase to ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, mainly due to rises in oil prices. Also, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings on rising crude oil prices and an increase in production volume. • In the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment, Mitsui Leasing & Development Co. Ltd. (Japan) increased to ¥2.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 from ¥0.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004 reflecting the strong performance of its machinery and shipping lease business. • In the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia) posted earnings of ¥2.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, continuing the firm performance seen for the year ended March 31, 2004. Automobile sales associated companies overseas continued to show solid performance for the year ended March 31, 2005. There was also a new contribution of ¥1.1 billion from United Auto Group Inc. (the United States), an automobile dealer which became an associated company during the year ended March 31, 2005. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations — Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2005, income (loss) from discontinued operations — net (after income tax effect) was income of ¥0.7 billion, a ¥4.4 billion increase from the loss of ¥3.7 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2004. The primary components of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2005 are as follows: • Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. (Japan), a subsidiary reported in the All Other Segment, had been engaged in the operation of a membership golf club in Japan, which had reported consecutive losses since the opening of the golf club because both the number of customers and the average sale per 85 Table of Contents customer had declined. In these business conditions, as it was very unlikely that Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. would be able to improve its earnings and pay off its debts in the future, Mitsui disposed of other than by sales the operation during the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, the income from discontinued operation of Shirasagi Golf Club Co., Ltd. was ¥0.7 billion, partially reversing losses in previous years. A breakdown of operations discontinued for the year ended March 31, 2004 was as follows: • Takeoka Golf Club, a domestic subsidiary in the All Other Segment, which had been engaged in the operation of a public golf club in Japan, suffered from a declining number of visitors due to keen competition with other golf clubs adjacent to the golf club and was disposed of by sale during the year ended March 31, 2004. The business was disposed of and we recorded ¥3.5 billion in losses — net (after income tax effect). We also posted a loss from disposal of Global Octanes Corporation (the United States) and other two subsidiaries, which had managed Global Octanes Texas Limited Partnership, and had been engaged in the manufacture and sale of Methyl Tertiary-Butyl Ether (“MTBE”), as its partners, but had dissolved the partnership and disposed of the operations during the year ended March 31, 2004. For additional information about our discontinued operations, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.” Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle (After Income Tax Effect) On April 1, 2003, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” SFAS No. 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the related cost by increasing the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. We recognized the cumulative effect of the initial application of SFAS No. 143 as a separate line item in the Statements of Consolidated Income under “Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle (After Income Tax Effect)” amounting to ¥2.3 billion including our share of amounts attributable to associated companies. This represents the difference between the net amount that was recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets upon the retroactive application of SFAS No. 143 as of April 1, 2003 and the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at that date prior to the application of SFAS No. 143. The asset retirement obligations are principally related to the costs of dismantling and removing mining facilities and gas production facilities owned by subsidiaries and associated companies in Australia, which are engaged in mining operations or oil and gas producing activities. For additional information about the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, see Note 11, “ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS.” Summary of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2004 Operating Environment The global economic recovery gained momentum from late 2003. The principal developments in the economic environment influencing our results of operations during the year ended March 31, 2004 included the following: • Major expansion in the exports and imports by emerging economies including those in Asia, drove the growth of the world economy. The Chinese economy reported an exceptionally strong performance with its government seeking sustainable economic growth and showing a cautious attitude in its monetary and foreign exchange policies to avoid overheating of the economy; • There was marked overall appreciation in international commodity prices reflecting increasing demand from Asian countries, especially from China; 86 Table of Contents • The Japanese economy began to recover gradually along with the improvement in the world economic conditions and the apparent reduction in the risks of a recession arising from instability of the Japanese financial system; • As a result of the improvement in the Japanese economy, stock prices in Japan bottomed out from the beginning of the year ended March 31, 2004; and • Major countries around the world maintained their low interest rate policies. Summary of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2004 For the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded net income of ¥68.4 billion, an increase of ¥37.3 billion or 119.6% from ¥31.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003. Our overview of the results of the operations for the year ended March 31, 2004 is set forth below: • Gross profit and equity in earnings of associated companies — net (after income tax effect) benefited from rising commodity market prices driven by strong demand in China and other Asian countries for energy and mineral resources. As a result, the Metal Products & Minerals Segment improved its operating results and the Energy Segment continued to perform well as compared with the year ended March 31, 2003; • Increased overseas demand for plant projects, automobiles and ocean vessels improved gross profit in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment and higher prices and increased demand for petrochemical products, including ammonia and olefin, improved the results of operations of the Chemical Segment. Charges for impairment losses on leased property and equipment, investments in securities and receivables in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment and losses resulting from the discontinued operations of North American petrochemical subsidiaries in the Chemical Segment were reduced for the year ended March 31, 2004 as compared to the year ended March 31, 2003; and • The turnaround of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), formerly Sanyu Koami Co., Ltd., that had recorded a net loss for the year ended March 31, 2003 due to impairment losses on non-marketable equity securities and unused land and for the year ended March 31, 2002 due to an expense with respect to an early retirement program and provision for doubtful receivables contributed to the improvement in the Consumer Products & Services Segment. Reflecting development in the above-mentioned operating segments, our operating results for the year ended March 31, 2004 improved as compared with the year ended March 31, 2003 as follows: • Gross profit increased by ¥44.3 billion to ¥613.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004 compared with ¥569.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003; and • Equity in earnings of associated companies — net (after income tax effect) rose by ¥24.8 billion to ¥40.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Associated companies in the natural resources business contributed to this growth, while there were significant losses for the year ended March 31, 2003 from associated companies in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment and the Chemical Segment. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in other expense — net by ¥17.7 billion to ¥28.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, which was primarily attributable to litigation charges for the United States antitrust lawsuits related to our chemical subsidiary, Bioproducts, Inc. (the United States). The average U.S. dollar-yen exchange rate for the year ended March 31, 2004 was ¥112.76=U.S.$1 compared with ¥121.20=U.S.$1 for the year ended March 31, 2003, a yen appreciation of ¥8.44, or 7.0%. The appreciation of the yen had the net effect of reducing gross profit by approximately ¥13.0 billion. 87 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2004 Revenues Sales of Products For the year ended March 31, 2004, sales of products were ¥2,490.0 billion, an increase of ¥173.2 billion from ¥2,316.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003. The major reason for this increase was a ¥112.9 billion increase in revenues from subsidiaries involved in oil and gas trading activities. This growth was mainly attributable to an 8.5% increase in the average price of crude oil during the year ended March 31, 2004 caused by turmoil in Iraq and a lower inventory level of petroleum products. Sales of Services For the year ended March 31, 2004, sales of services were ¥424.5 billion, an increase of ¥34.8 billion from ¥389.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003. Major components of these revenues for the year ended March 31, 2004 were revenues related to sales and purchases of products, which are reported net under EITF No. 99-19. These include commissions received at a fixed amount or rate in relation to the volume or amount of transactions, and revenues reported net for some back-to-back sales and purchase transactions of products where the difference between sales price and purchase price is recorded as revenue. Revenues from such trading margins and commissions increased from ¥273.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003 to ¥303.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was mainly due to the growth in trading transactions at subsidiaries such as MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) primarily with Japanese supermarkets. Revenues from logistics and warehouse services, information and communication services, technical support and many other types of services increased from ¥77.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003 to ¥83.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Revenues from commissions for facilitating conclusion of the contracts between manufacturers and customers and for delivering products between suppliers and customers decreased from ¥39.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003 to ¥37.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Other Sales For the year ended March 31, 2004, leasing revenues decreased from ¥49.9 billion to ¥42.2 billion, mainly due to the disposal of leased aircraft and the termination of the lease contracts in relation with ocean transport vessels. Derivative trading revenues decreased from ¥22.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003 to ¥18.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Gross Profit Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues For the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit (“GP”) increased by ¥44.3 billion to ¥613.9 billion. The changes in GP and GP ratio classified by category of revenues are set forth below: Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 As Restated As Restated Change GP GP Ratio GP GP Ratio GP GP Ratio Gross profit from sales of products ¥197.4 7.9% ¥185.7 8.0% ¥11.7 (0.1 )% Gross profit from sales of services 383.1 90.2% 345.1 88.6% 38.0 1.6 % Gross profit from other sales 33.4 48.8% 38.8 49.7% (5.4 ) (0.9 )% Total ¥613.9 20.6% ¥569.6 20.5% ¥44.3 0.1 % 88 Table of Contents Gross profit from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased ¥11.7 billion compared with the year ended March 31, 2003. This increase was mainly due to the contribution of newly acquired subsidiaries, such as Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan). Gross profit from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased ¥38.0 billion compared with the year ended March 31, 2003. This increase was mainly due to the growth in commissions for facilitating the conclusion of contracts between manufacturers and customers and profit margin for construction projects of oil refineries and power plants, trading margins from transactions relating to cell phones and from the domestic transactions with supermarkets by MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan). Gross profit ratio for the year ended March 31, 2004 improved 1.6 points compared with the year ended March 31, 2003, mainly due to the increase in revenues from trading margins and commissions reported net, where the corresponding costs are fully offset by the billed amount and the gross profit ratio becomes 100%. Gross profit from other sales for the year ended March 31, 2004 decreased ¥5.4 billion from the year ended March 31, 2003. This decrease was mainly due to the derivative trading losses at Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) relating to petroleum products tradings. Gross profit ratio for the year ended March 31, 2004 also decreased 0.9 points compared with the year ended March 31, 2003, mainly due to the decrease in revenues from petroleum products derivative trading transactions. Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment For the year ended March 31, 2004, the growth in gross profit was mainly attributable to the operating segments as set forth below: Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Segment 2004 2003 Change Chemical ¥ 91.1 ¥ 69.3 ¥21.8 Machinery, Electronics & Information 128.7 121.1 7.6 Consumer Products & Services 135.9 122.6 13.3 Metal Products & Minerals 77.0 71.5 5.5 • Growth in the Chemical Segment was due to higher market prices for ammonia and other petrochemicals resulting from the rising crude oil and natural gas prices; • Results in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment benefited from a higher volume of transactions for construction of oil refineries and power plants, sales of automobiles, ocean vessels and cell phones; • In the Consumer Products & Services Segment, newly acquired subsidiary Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), a producer and seller of tea leaves, made a new contribution while MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) also recorded higher sales mainly to supermarkets in Japan; and • In the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, gross profit increased at an iron ore subsidiary Sesa Goa Limited (India), because of growing iron ore exports to China and higher market prices of its products in India, and at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), reflecting increased shipments of iron ore driven by the demand from China and other countries. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased to ¥494.4 billion from ¥454.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003. 89 Table of Contents Despite lower expenses for the early retirement support plan at Mitsui, total personnel expenses for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased by ¥19.3 billion to ¥261.3 billion because: • At Mitsui, pension costs increased sharply due to a ¥13.0 billion increase in amortization of the unrecognized net actuarial loss; and • A settlement loss of ¥10.5 billion was incurred due to the completion of the transfer to the Japanese government of the substitutional portion of the Mitsui’s EPF. Communication and information expenses for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased by ¥2.4 billion to ¥33.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2003 because of the introduction of a new enterprise resource planning system designed to raise productivity by standardizing business processes at Mitsui. Selling, general and administrative expenses other than personnel and communication and information expenses increased by ¥18.3 billion to ¥155.8 billion from the year ended March 31, 2003 due to an increase in newly acquired subsidiaries, including Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), where there were additional depreciation and sales promotion expenses. Provision for Doubtful Receivables Provision for doubtful receivables fell to ¥9.9 billion compared with ¥13.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003. For the year ended March 31, 2004, provision for doubtful receivables consisted mainly of individually small provisions for a number of customers, primarily overseas customers in the machinery business and domestic and overseas customers in the steel product business. For the year ended March 31, 2003, the provision was mainly for amounts due from United Airlines, Inc. and other receivables relating to aircraft leasing, caused by the deterioration of the worldwide airline industry, especially in the United States; for receivables from customers in Argentina and Honduras reflecting weak economic conditions; and for receivables from domestic customers of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) and Mitsui Bussan Plant & Project Corp. (Japan). Interest Expense, Net of Interest Income Interest expense, net of interest income for the year ended March 31, 2004 decreased by ¥0.1 billion, which was attributable to lower net interest expenses at overseas subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. The average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) was 0.06% and 0.07% for the year ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The average long-term prime rate in Japan was 1.59% for the year ended March 31, 2004 compared to 1.79% for the year ended March 31, 2003. The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR was 1.16% for the year ended March 31, 2004, which fell from 1.63% for the year ended March 31, 2003 because of the continuing low interest rate policy in the United States. Dividend Income Our dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased by ¥2.1 billion mainly due to the ¥1.1 billion increase in dividends received by Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. from local Hong Kong investee companies. Dividends from investments in the Energy Segment amounting to ¥8.1 billion, principally from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Oman and Qatar, were consistent with dividends for the year ended March 31, 2003 of ¥8.3 billion. Gain on Securities Contributed to an Employee Retirement Benefit Trust During the year ended March 31, 2004, no contribution of securities to an employee retirement benefit trust was made. For the year ended March 31, 2003, Mitsui made a contribution of certain available-for-sale securities to the trust and recorded a ¥15.8 billion gain. 90 Table of Contents Government Grant for Transfer of Substitutional Portion of EPF This was reported for the year ended March 31, 2004 only. For information, see “Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2005.” Gain on Sales of Securities — Net The net realized gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased by ¥16.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2003. For the year ended March 31, 2004, gain related to sales of shares of SKY Perfect Communications Inc., Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. and MODEC, Inc. For the year ended March 31, 2003, there were gains resulting from the exchange of shares accompanying the merger of Japan Airlines Company, Ltd. and Japan Air System Co., Ltd. and the sale of shares of information technology-related companies, offsetting losses on sales of listed shares of banking institutions. Loss on Write-Down of Securities For the year ended March 31, 2004, the loss on write-down of securities decreased by ¥6.9 billion to ¥31.0 billion from ¥37.9 billion recorded for the year ended March 31, 2003. Stock prices in Japan fell sharply in early 2003 as non-performing loan problems sparked concerns about the Japanese financial system and the Nikkei Stock Average reached its “post-bubble” record low in April 2003. However, a rebound in stock markets began in May 2003 after the Japanese government’s decision to inject public funds into certain banks alleviated concerns about financial instability. Improving corporate earnings and a gradual upturn in the Japanese economy also drove stock prices higher for the year ended March 31, 2004. The Nikkei Stock Average closed at ¥11,715.39, ¥7,972.71 and ¥11,024.94 on March 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Due to the rebound in Japanese stock markets, the loss on write-down of marketable securities decreased sharply to ¥1.1 billion from ¥15.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003. The loss on write-down of marketable securities for the year ended March 31, 2003 primarily consisted of those of banking institutions. For the year ended March 31, 2004, however, with respect to non-marketable securities, we posted a ¥21.7 billion loss on shares of POWEREDCOM, Inc., a Japanese telecommunications company, in consideration of the deterioration in its financial position reflecting the operating loss caused by the fierce price competition along with expansion of the Internet and the decrease in revenues from the fixed-line business. We also recorded a ¥1.5 billion loss on shares of Mitsui Denman (Ireland) Co., Ltd., a company in the chemical industry located in Ireland. For the year ended March 31, 2003, losses on non-marketable securities were ¥22.3 billion, which included those of information technology-related companies amounting to ¥7.6 billion. (Gain) Loss on Disposal or Sales of Property and Equipment — Net For the year ended March 31, 2004, gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment — net was ¥4.1 billion, an improvement by ¥5.8 billion compared with the year ended March 31, 2003. This improvement is mostly attributable to a gain of ¥5.7 billion on sales of Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories in Japan. The corporate residences and dormitories on which we recorded a gain on sales during the year ended March 31, 2004 had been acquired long before the land prices significantly increased in Japan in the late 1980s and early 1990s. For the year ended March 31, 2003, loss on disposal or sales of property and equipment — net, which were mainly incurred by domestic subsidiaries, were not significant. 91 Table of Contents Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets The impairment loss of long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2004 slightly decreased by ¥1.2 billion to ¥22.4 billion. The main elements of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2004 were as follows: • Impairment losses on Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories of ¥8.0 billion were recorded due to a further decline in land prices in Japan. The corporate residences and dormitories on which we recorded impairment losses during the year ended March 31, 2004 had been acquired mainly in early 1990s; • In the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, there were impairment losses of ¥4.3 billion that resulted from the exit from and disposal of certain businesses at NBI Corporation (Japan), formerly Toyo Valve Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. (Japan); and • Impairment losses were also recorded at two domestic subsidiaries that operate golf courses. For more information on our reevaluation and restructuring of subsidiaries and associated companies, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” As compared with the year ended March 31, 2003, we saw the following improvement in impairment losses on long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2004: • For the year ended March 31, 2003, there was an impairment loss of ¥9.4 billion on MD-11 leased aircraft due to a substantial decline in the fair value of this type of aircraft. For the year ended March 31, 2004, a similar loss on our leased aircraft was not significant; • In the Energy Segment, there was an impairment loss of ¥9.2 billion mainly related to gas stations operated by Mitsui Oil & Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), which was divided into Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. in December 2004, and Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. (Japan) for the year ended March 31, 2003; and • MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) recorded an impairment loss on unused land in Japan for the year ended March 31, 2003. Other Expense — Net For the year ended March 31, 2004, other expense — net increased by ¥17.7 billion to ¥28.7 billion. The increase was mainly caused by: • litigation charges of ¥13.7 billion related to the settlement of an antitrust lawsuit filed against our United States subsidiary, Bioproducts, Inc., which manufactures and sells feed ingredient; and • restructuring charges of ¥7.0 billion arising from certain subsidiaries such as Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. (Japan) and NBI Corporation (Japan). For more information, see Note 25, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” With regard to the litigation charges related to Bioproducts, Inc., there are still pending lawsuits, but we believe there is less than a reasonable possibility that the pending lawsuits would materially affect our results of operations. For more details, see Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” For the year ended March 31, 2003, out of ¥11.0 billion of other expense — net, litigation charges were ¥4.1 billion which included the charge in connection with the lawsuits against Novus International, Inc., one of our United States subsidiaries. Additionally, there were foreign exchange losses amounting to ¥2.4 billion mainly at Mitsui due to the yen appreciation. Income Taxes Income taxes for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased by ¥5.8 billion to ¥45.0 billion compared with the year ended March 31, 2003. The effective tax rate was 53.0%, which was higher than the normal 92 Table of Contents statutory corporate tax rate of 42% in Japan. The difference was primarily caused by the valuation allowance provided for deferred tax assets for operating losses of certain subsidiaries. For the year ended March 31, 2003, the effective tax rate of 59.7% was also mainly due to a valuation allowance for operating losses of certain subsidiaries. For more detailed information on our income taxes, see Note 21, “INCOME TAXES.” Minority Interests in Earnings of Subsidiaries For the year ended March 31, 2004, minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries increased by ¥3.1 billion to ¥7.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2003. The increase was mainly attributable to the strong performance of an iron ore subsidiary, Sesa Goa Limited (India), in which the minority interest portion was 49% for the year ended March 31, 2004. Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies — Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2004, equity in earnings of associated companies — net rose by ¥24.8 billion to ¥40.1 billion due to the following: • In the Energy Segment, earnings increased at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), which operates in Western Australia, as both sales volumes and crude oil prices rose; • In the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, the operating results of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), the holding company of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”), were included from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, and there were higher earnings of Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile), a copper mine development company reflecting rising copper prices from around the middle of the year ended March 31, 2004; and • In the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, earnings rose at P.T. Paiton Energy in Indonesia due to higher electric power sales volume and at overseas automobile sales subsidiaries. For the year ended March 31, 2003, there were contributions from associated companies in the Energy and the Metal Products & Minerals segments, which were offset by the substantial losses from: • an other than temporary decline in the value of investments in NextCom K.K. (Japan), formerly an associated company engaged in the information technology business, as a result of the sharp decline in its stock price, and an increase in the reserve for impaired loans at Furukawa Industrial S.A. Produtos Eletrico (Brazil), a telecommunications associated company; and • an impairment loss on a production facility of Vinylchloride (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., an overseas associated company in the chemical business. The absence of such significant losses for the year ended March 31, 2004 was another reason for the increase in net equity in earnings of associated companies. Loss from Discontinued Operations — Net (After Income Tax Effect) For the year ended March 31, 2004, loss from discontinued operations was ¥3.7 billion. The primary component of the loss from discontinued operations was the disposal of Takeoka Golf Club (Japan), amounting to ¥3.5 billion after income taxes. Takeoka Golf Club, which had been engaged in the operation of a public golf club in Japan, suffered from the declining number of visitors due to keen competition with adjacent golf clubs and was disposed of by sale during the year ended March 31, 2004. For the year ended March 31, 2003, loss from discontinued operations was ¥5.9 billion. The primary components of loss from discontinued operations were related to the following petrochemical subsidiaries in North America and amounted to ¥6.3 billion after income tax effect: • Transpacific Glycols, Inc. (the United States), a subsidiary reported in both the Chemical and Americas Segments, which had been engaged in the sale of ethylene glycol, had ceased its sales 93 Table of Contents operations during the year ended March 31, 2003 due to its declining performance caused by overall market conditions; and • Pacific Ammonia Inc. (the United States), a subsidiary reported in the Chemical Segment, which had been engaged in the manufacture and sale of ammonia primarily on the West Coast of the United States, had suffered from high natural gas costs, its main raw material ingredient, and a relatively weak ammonia price due to a worldwide oversupply. Due to this business environment, Pacific Ammonia Inc. recognized an impairment loss on fixed assets during the year ended March 31, 2003 based on a plan to dispose of the operation by sale. For additional information about our discontinued operations, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.” Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle (After Income Tax Effect) This cumulative effect was reported for the year ended March 31, 2004 only. For information, see “Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2005.” Operating Results by Operating Segment The business units of Mitsui’s Head Office, which are organized based on “products and services,” plan overall and worldwide strategies for their products and services and conduct their worldwide operations. The business units also collaborate with branches and trading subsidiaries that are located in overseas countries in planning and executing their strategies for products and regions. The branches and trading subsidiaries that are located in overseas countries are separate operating units, which are delegated the business of their regions as the centers of each particular regional strategy and operate diversified business together with their subsidiaries and associated companies in collaboration with the business units. Therefore, our operating segments consist of product-focused operating segments comprised of the business units of the Head Office and region-focused operating segments comprised of branches, offices and overseas trading subsidiaries. Our operating segments have been aggregated based on the nature of the products and other criteria into six product-focused reportable operating segments and three region-focused reportable operating segments, totaling nine reportable operating segments. Effective April 1, 2004, with the aim of strengthening domestic businesses and improving operational efficiency, the “Domestic Branches and Offices,” which had been separate operating units until the year ended March 31, 2004, were integrated into related businesses units based on the categories of their products and services. Accordingly, “Domestic Branches and Offices” was abolished and the components of the reportable segment were transferred to each product-focused operating segment in the Head Office. Further, effective April 1, 2004, with the aim of optimizing the allocation of operating resources and implementing global strategies more quickly and efficiently, the business units in the Head Office were reorganized. In this reorganization, the logistics businesses and the financial businesses, which had previously been included in “Metal Products & Minerals” and “All Other,” were aggregated as a new reportable segment “Logistics & Financial Markets,” in order to provide high-quality, specialized logistics and financial capabilities to customers across all product areas. In addition, with the aim of responding to the rapid expansion in Japan of service industries such as the knowledge-based industry, and the healthcare industry, and developing new business models based on identifying consumer needs, the Consumer Service Business Unit was established in “Consumer Products & Services.” Media-related businesses oriented to consumers were transferred to “Consumer Products & Services” from “Machinery, Electronics & Information.” The operating segment information for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 has been restated to conform to the current year presentation. Starting from the year ended March 31, 2005, we changed the presentation of financing revenues and costs of certain subsidiaries engaged mainly in external consumer financing, which were formerly reported 94 Table of Contents as interest expense, net of interest income. In relation to this change, the figures for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. Further, starting from the year ended March 31, 2005, equity in earnings of associated companies is disclosed, since this item is newly included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. In this section, for the convenience of readers to compare equity in earnings of associated companies by operating segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, the breakdowns for the year ended March 31, 2004 are additionally provided. Our operating segment information for gross profit, operating income (loss), equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies and net income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows: Operating segment information Gross profit Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change Change 2005 2004 2003 (2005–2004) (2004–2003) Metal Products & Minerals ¥ 121.4 ¥ 77.0 ¥ 71.5 ¥ 44.4 ¥ 5.5 Machinery, Electronics & Information 137.3 128.7 121.1 8.6 7.6 Chemical 87.1 91.1 69.3 (4.0 ) 21.8 Energy 72.6 54.6 53.8 18.0 0.8 Consumer Products & Services 152.6 135.9 122.6 16.7 13.3 Logistics & Financial Markets 46.7 32.3 33.1 14.4 (0.8 ) Americas 49.9 40.7 44.6 9.2 (3.9 ) Europe 20.7 20.0 22.5 0.7 (2.5 ) Other Overseas Areas 25.8 24.1 23.5 1.7 0.6 Total 714.1 604.4 562.0 109.7 42.4 All Other 12.3 10.4 10.6 1.9 (0.2 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (0.6 ) (0.9 ) (3.0 ) 0.3 2.1 Consolidated Total 725.8 613.9 569.6 111.9 44.3 95 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change Change 2005 2004 2003 (2005–2004) (2004–2003) Metal Products & Minerals ¥ 68.1 ¥ 28.7 ¥ 24.7 ¥ 39.4 ¥ 4.0 Machinery, Electronics & Information 31.4 29.4 14.1 2.0 15.3 Chemical 24.6 31.4 18.3 (6.8 ) 13.1 Energy 35.5 21.7 25.7 13.8 (4.0 ) Consumer Products & Services 32.0 23.3 21.2 8.7 2.1 Logistics & Financial Markets 18.5 10.4 10.9 8.1 (0.5 ) Americas 14.7 8.5 9.5 6.2 (1.0 ) Europe 2.4 3.0 4.2 (0.6 ) (1.2 ) Other Overseas Areas 8.2 6.6 7.6 1.6 (1.0 ) Total 235.4 163.0 136.2 72.4 26.8 All Other (0.5 ) (1.9 ) (1.8 ) 1.4 (0.1 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (36.9 ) (34.3 ) (32.5 ) (2.6 ) (1.8 ) Consolidated Total 198.0 126.8 101.9 71.2 24.9 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change 2005 2004 (2005–2004) Metal Products & Minerals ¥ 22.4 ¥ 8.6 ¥ 13.8 Machinery, Electronics & Information 8.2 7.7 0.5 Chemical 2.5 (1.2 ) 3.7 Energy 24.5 14.5 10.0 Consumer Products & Services 3.7 6.3 (2.6 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 2.4 0.2 2.2 Americas 1.6 (2.5 ) 4.1 Europe 0.1 0.2 (0.1 ) Other Overseas Areas 0.5 0.4 0.1 Total 65.9 34.2 31.7 All Other 0.4 (0.1 ) 0.5 Adjustments and Eliminations (0.4 ) 6.0 (6.4 ) Consolidated Total 65.9 40.1 25.8 96 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change Change 2005 2004 2003 (2005–2004) (2004–2003) Metal Products & Minerals ¥ 47.0 ¥ 24.2 ¥ 16.1 ¥ 22.8 ¥ 8.1 Machinery, Electronics & Information 26.4 5.9 (9.2 ) 20.5 15.1 Chemical (6.9 ) 11.4 (3.6 ) (18.3 ) 15.0 Energy 42.8 24.4 23.0 18.4 1.4 Consumer Products & Services 16.9 18.9 9.6 (2.0 ) 9.3 Logistics & Financial Markets 11.8 4.8 4.7 7.0 0.1 Americas 12.3 0.2 3.3 12.1 (3.1 ) Europe 2.9 0.7 2.8 2.2 (2.1 ) Other Overseas Areas 13.8 10.4 8.6 3.4 1.8 Total 167.0 100.9 55.3 66.1 45.6 All Other 4.4 1.9 6.9 2.5 (5.0 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (50.3 ) (34.4 ) (31.1 ) (15.9 ) (3.3 ) Consolidated Total 121.1 68.4 31.1 52.7 37.3 Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income (loss) reflects our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses, (c) provision for doubtful receivables and (d) government grant for transfer of substitutional portion of EPF, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. Results of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Metal Products & Minerals Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥ 121.4 ¥ 77.0 ¥ 44.4 Operating income 68.1 28.7 39.4 Equity in earnings of associated companies 22.4 8.6 13.8 Net income 47.0 24.2 22.8 Gross profit of the Metal Products & Minerals Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥121.4 billion, a substantial increase of ¥44.4 billion from ¥77.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors contributing to this result were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2005, iron ore prices under long-term contracts rose by 18.6% over the year ended March 31, 2004, resulting in major increases in gross profit at Sesa Goa Limited (India) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia). Sesa Goa Limited in particular contributed a ¥12.2 billion increase compared to the year ended March 31, 2004, supported by the expansion of sales to China. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty, Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis) increased to 21.4 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to 18.7 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2004 on the back of expanded production at the West Angelas mine which came on line in March 2002. 97 Table of Contents • Due to the price rise for long-term contracts for thermal coal and metallurgical coal for the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded a ¥5.3 billion increase in gross profit compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Representative prices for Australian metallurgical coal rose to U.S.$57 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to U.S.$47 per ton/FOB for the year ended March 31, 2004. • We recorded a combined gross profit increase of ¥12.6 billion in the steel products businesses in this segment, as profit margins expanded due to the steady transaction volume mainly in the domestic market and Asia, amid a tightening in supply and demand for various steel products. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥68.1 billion, a ¥39.4 billion increase from ¥28.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased, but this was significantly outweighed by the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥22.4 billion, an increase of ¥13.8 billion from ¥8.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors contributing to this result were as follows: • In the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, we sold our shares in Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. to the Brazilian iron ore and mineral resources company Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“CVRD”) at the same time as acquiring 18.24% of the outstanding voting shares in Valepar S.A. (Brazil), the holding company of CVRD. Our equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥6.4 billion, a ¥3.9 billion increase compared to the year ended March 31, 2004, also reflecting the positive impact of higher mineral resource prices on its financial performance. • Our equity in earnings in the copper mine joint venture, Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile), for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥7.8 billion, an increase of ¥5.9 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2004. Average copper prices over the year as listed on the London Metals Exchange (“LME”) rose to U.S.$3,000 per ton/ FOB for the year ended March 31, 2005 from U.S.$2,046 per ton/ FOB for the year ended March 31, 2004. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥47.0 billion, a significant increase of ¥22.8 billion from ¥24.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, reflecting increased operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, despite the following negative factors: • The year ended March 31, 2005 saw reduced gains on sales of securities, reflecting the absence of the ¥4.4 billion gain recorded from the sale of shares in Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. for the year ended March 31, 2004. • We recorded ¥6.5 billion in impairment losses on plant facilities at an aluminum smelting subsidiary, Mitalco Inc. (the United States) for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting the rising trend of electricity costs. Short-and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Iron & Steel Raw Materials, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance In the iron ore and coal production joint venture businesses in Australia and other regions that we are promoting along with major overseas mineral resource companies, those joint ventures conclude multiple year sales contracts with Japanese steel makers, major clients. Based on these long-term contracts, sales prices are reviewed and renegotiated each fiscal year. For the year ending March 31, 2006, the annual prices of iron ore and coal have been raised to reflect limited production capacities in Australia and Brazil in the face of active demand for iron and steel raw materials from China as described below. (Unit prices 98 Table of Contents for iron ore and coal from each mine in production also reflect the difference of respective grades and types.) • Iron ore prices rose 71.5% compared to the year ended March 31, 2005, on a pure ore content basis. • Prices for representative Australian metallurgical coal rose to U.S.$125 per ton/ FOB for the year ending March 31, 2006, a 120% rise over the U.S.$57 per ton/ FOB for the year ended March 31, 2005. Fluctuations in iron ore and coal prices directly result in revenue from the equity-based production of our iron ore or coal subsidiaries and associated companies overseas. For the year ending March 31, 2006, the estimated impact on net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income arising from change in iron ore and coal prices is as follows: • Estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in iron ore price: Approximately ¥2.6 billion. • Estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in coal price: Approximately ¥0.6 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2005, an equity-based production of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies in shipments amounted to 39 million tons of iron ore and 8 million tons of coal. The above-mentioned effect is calculated based on the assumptions on an estimated increase in production in line with our holdings after the year ended March 31, 2005, and a specific range of foreign exchange for yen, the U.S. dollar and other related currencies. Efforts are being undertaken at each mine to expand production and shipments, but production costs are increasing amid a global trend of rising material and equipment costs, and utility costs are also trending upwards. In natural resource producing countries such as Australia, there is a generalized trend toward currency appreciation in line with any firming in the markets for export products, resulting in cost pressure for our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. As a result, it will also be necessary for us to take these cost fluctuation factors into consideration when considering earnings developments at our iron ore and coal businesses overseas. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in our Equity Production In order to respond to tightening supply-demand, major iron ore and coal producers are investing to increase production capacity. As of March 31, 2005, noteworthy developments in iron and steel raw materials projects in which we hold a stake are as follows. (Unless otherwise noted, production amounts represent at 100% basis by all participants to the relevant projects.) • We are at present expanding the operation at the West Angelas mine, a joint venture with Rio Tinto, in order to raise iron ore production capacity to 25 million tons per annum from the present 20 million tons within 2005. With respect to joint ventures promoted with BHP Billiton, we are expanding to raise the combined iron ore production capacity to 118 million tons from 110 million tons by the year ending March 31, 2007. • At the Moura/ Theodore mines, a joint venture with Anglo Coal Australia Pty Ltd., we have decided to boost annual coal production from the present capacity of 7.2 million tons to 12.7 million tons by 2007. It is difficult to make definitive forecasts about demand developments from areas such as China for a medium to long term. On the other hand, operations of other projects are also expanding production capacity which we expect will be reflected in global production capacity in the year beyond 2007. We produce our Medium-Term Strategic and Financial Plan on a biennial basis, but have yet to come up with the outlook of supply and demand or iron and steel raw materials prices for the period 99 Table of Contents beyond 2007. As there are too many uncertainties on the future supply-demand and price outlook for our management to draw up definitive forecasts at this point in time. Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥ 137.3 ¥ 128.7 ¥ 8.6 Operating income 31.4 29.4 2.0 Equity in earnings of associated companies 8.2 7.7 0.5 Net income 26.4 5.9 20.5 Gross profit in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥137.3 billion, an increase of ¥8.6 billion from ¥128.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main components of the changes in gross profit were: • Growth in cell phone agency sales by Telepark Corp., leading to an increase in gross profit of ¥3.6 billion. NextCom K.K. (Japan), an associated company in the year ended March 31, 2004, was merged with two of Mitsui’s subsidiaries to become a subsidiary in the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005, resulting in growth of ¥4.0 billion. • In the year ended March 31, 2004, there was a significant contribution from plant and transportation projects such as a power station and railway project in Malaysia, and an oil refinery in Russia. In the year ended March 31, 2005 execution of such large contracts declined and gross profit decreased slightly. • Business expansion of P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia), a motorcycle retail finance company, resulted in growth of ¥1.7 billion. In general, overseas subsidiaries in the automotive field recorded increased gross profit. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥31.4 billion, a ¥2.0 billion increase from the ¥29.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Although gross profit rose, selling, general and administrative expenses including personnel expenses rose for NextCom K.K. (Japan), Telepark Corp. (Japan) and overseas subsidiaries in the automotive field. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥8.2 billion, an increase of ¥0.5 billion from ¥7.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia) continued to be buoyant, recording a figure of ¥2.9 billion. In addition to the favorable performance of overseas automotive associated companies, the United Auto Group, Inc. (the United States), a company which newly became an associated company made a new contribution of ¥1.1 billion. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥26.4 billion, a substantial increase of ¥20.5 billion from ¥5.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. In addition to the small increase in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, there was significant improvement in other expenses for the year ended March 31, 2005. The major factors for this included the following: • For the year ended March 31, 2004 there was a ¥21.7 billion impairment loss on Mitsui’s investment in a telecommunications carrier POWEREDCOM, Inc. in consideration of the deterioration in its financial position. Moreover, in connection with our effort toward reevaluating and restructuring the business of subsidiaries and associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2004, we reorganized the business of NBI Corporation (Japan), formerly known as Toyo Valve Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. (Japan), which led to impairment losses on property and equipment of ¥4.3 billion and other expense-net of ¥3.7 billion; and • Gains on the sale of shares in Japanese cell-phone carrier Vodafone K.K. for the year ended March 31, 2005 amounted to ¥7.2 billion. As a result of the listing of TelePark Corp. (Japan) on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, we recognized a ¥1.7 billion gain on issuance of stock by a subsidiary 100 Table of Contents and a ¥4.1 billion gain on the sale of securities. In December 2004, following the merger of associated company NextCom K.K. (Japan) with the two subsidiaries ADAM NET Ltd. (Japan) and BSI Co., Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui made a gain of ¥3.7 billion through the receipt of shares in NextCom K.K., in exchange for shares in the two subsidiaries. Chemical Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥ 87.1 ¥ 91.1 ¥ (4.0 ) Operating income 24.6 31.4 (6.8 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies 2.5 (1.2 ) 3.7 Net (loss) income (6.9 ) 11.4 (18.3 ) Gross profit in the Chemical Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥87.1 billion, a decline of ¥4.0 billion from ¥91.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Although gross profit from petrochemical products was boosted by rising prices reflecting increasing crude oil prices and strong demand in Asia, especially in China, these gains were outweighed by unrealized losses on certain long term petrochemical purchase commitments based on rising purchase prices that were linked to natural gas price, and increased raw material cost at a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary Novus International, Inc. (the United States). Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥24.6 billion, a ¥6.8 billion decrease from the ¥31.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. In addition to the above-mentioned declines in gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses including personnel expenses also rose. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.5 billion, improved by ¥3.7 billion compared with the losses for the year ended March 31, 2004 of ¥1.2 billion. This segment withdrew from the manufacture and sale of gasoline additives in which it had been engaged together with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. for the year ended March 31, 2004. This segment recorded net loss of ¥6.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, a significant decline of ¥18.3 billion compared with ¥11.4 billion net income for the year ended March 31, 2004. In addition to the above-mentioned changes in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies, the following factors were also responsible for the losses: • For the year ended March 31, 2005, Mitsui discovered that false data had been produced and submitted to authorities for diesel particulate filters (“DPF”s) manufactured by its subsidiary PUREarth Incorporated and sold by Mitsui. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government and other bodies provided subsidies to the purchasers of these DPFs. Mitsui established a user response plan including the free replacement of DPFs and has been proceeding with full compensation of relevant subsidies, which resulted in a ¥36.0 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2005 as compensation and other charges related to DPF incident. • For the year ended March 31, 2004, this segment recorded a loss of ¥2.8 billion (after income tax effect) which was the segment’s share basis for the settlement of antitrust lawsuits involving Bioproducts, Inc. (the United States), a subsidiary jointly owned by this segment with its 20% equity interest and Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. that produced choline chloride, a feed ingredient. • For the year ended March 31, 2005, we sold our shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited, a manufacturer of high-density polyethylene in Thailand, which had been jointly owned by the Chemical Segment and the Other Overseas Areas Segment. Of the ¥3.9 billion realized in the sale, this Segment’s share came to ¥2.5 billion. 101 Table of Contents Energy Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥72.6 ¥54.6 ¥18.0 Operating income 35.5 21.7 13.8 Equity in earnings of associated companies 24.5 14.5 10.0 Net income 42.8 24.4 18.4 During the year ended March 31, 2005, the price of crude oil rose considerably, driven by increasing demand, particularly from China, and spurred by the instability in supply from the Middle East and other regions. A flood of speculative money into the futures market drove up the price of West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) to an all-time high of U.S.$57.60 per barrel in March 2005. The average price of crude oil bound for Japan, Japan Crude Cocktail (“JCC”), soared from U.S.$29.43 per barrel during the year ended March 31, 2004 to U.S.$38.77 per barrel during the year ended March 31, 2005 (the average in calendar year of 2004 was U.S.$36.37 per barrel). Gross profit in the Energy Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥72.6 billion, an increase of ¥18.0 billion from the ¥54.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors were as below: • For the year ended March 31, 2004 Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) recorded a loss in petroleum products trading, from which it withdrew. For the year ended March 31, 2005 Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. concentrated on crude oil trading and its gross profit improved by ¥13.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004; • Among overseas subsidiaries engaged in the development, production and sale of oil and gas, Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands), which develops and produces oil and gas in Oman, increased gross profit by ¥3.3 billion, reflecting the rise in oil prices and an increase in sales volume. In addition, Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. (Australia), which sells crude oil and condensate, recorded an increase of ¥1.7 billion; and • Domestic petroleum product sales showed strong performance, successfully passing higher oil prices on to their wholesale and retail pricing. Combined gross profits of three of our domestic sales subsidiaries — Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd., Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (which was separated out from Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. in December 2004) and Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. — increased by ¥4.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥35.5 billion, a ¥13.8 billion increase from ¥21.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This growth reflected the above-mentioned increase in gross profit, but was partially offset by a ¥3.8 billion increase in selling, general and administrative expenses at Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. arising from higher trader bonuses. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥24.5 billion, an increase of ¥10.0 billion from ¥14.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Earnings increased significantly at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty, Ltd. (Australia), involved in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in West Australia, due to rising oil prices and increased production on the back of expanded facilities. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan), chiefly engaged in the production of gas and crude oil in offshore Thailand, also recorded an increase to ¥2.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 from ¥1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, mainly driven by rising crude oil prices. Also, Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) increased earnings on rising crude oil prices and an increase in production volume. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥42.8 billion, a significant increase of ¥18.4 billion from ¥24.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase resulted from the above-mentioned improvement in both operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. In 102 Table of Contents addition, dividend income from our three LNG projects in the Middle East, namely, in Abu Dhabi, Oman and Qatar totaled ¥12.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005, reflecting their strong performance due to rising oil prices, an increase of ¥4.7 billion over ¥8.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Energy, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance A survey conducted by the International Energy Agency indicated that world crude oil demand in 2004 was 82.5 million barrels per day, with an estimated demand for 2005 of 84.3 million barrels per day. General observations by agencies and corporations suggest that in the short term, apart from changing factors such as Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) production policies and the political situation in the Middle East, an overall tight supply-demand balance will continue, driven by strong growth of demand in Chinese economy and limited capacity of oil producing countries to increase production. Our equity-based production volume of oil and gas for the year ended March 31, 2005 was about 42 million barrels (gas is converted to barrels of oil at the ratio of 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas to 1 barrel of crude oil). For the year ending March 31, 2006, the Sakhalin II LNG project and Enfield crude oil projects will still be in development stage, so the level of production is expected to slightly increase from the year ended March 31, 2005. For the year ended March 31, 2005, a change of U.S.$1 per barrel in crude oil prices is expected to have an effect of ¥1 billion on net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income as a result of changes in revenues of our oil and gas related subsidiaries and associated companies. Similar to the iron and steel raw materials, actual results of operations are also influenced by production costs, trends in foreign exchange rates and other factors surrounding those subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production The middle and long term trends in supply, demand, and prices of crude oil are subject to far greater levels of uncertainty than trends in the short term, and it is therefore impossible for management to make a definitive forecast. On the other hand, with respect to LNG, we are focusing on the changes in market structure that are currently taking place, and acting accordingly as follows: • In the past, the market has grown mainly with long-term purchase contracts by power and gas companies operating in Japan and the Far East. Expansion of incumbent oil and gas projects and green field projects coming on stream will increase the volume of supply to the market, while demand, which has traditionally centered around the Far East, will be joined by growing demand from Europe and the United States, while huge markets in China and India would emerge. Therefore, globalization both in terms of supply and demand is expected to progress. In addition, as the opportunity for supply and demand adjustments in these markets increase, LNG is expected to become a more marketable commodity. • Those long-term purchase contracts with Japanese companies in many projects are expected to come due for renewal around 2010, and more flexible terms reflecting the above-mentioned supply-demand trends will be requested from the buyers. In evaluating the opportunity for the expansion of incumbent projects and the participation into green field projects, we are putting emphasis on securing stable supply as well as diversifying our source of supply to ensure better flexibility. Assuming that we do not acquire any additional interests on top of our existing interests in oil and gas as of March 31, 2005, our equity based production capacity from 2009 onwards (by which time production of crude oil from our investments at the Enfield crude oil project and LNG at the Sakhalin II project will have come on stream) will increase to an annual equity-based production capacity of approximately 80 million barrels, from the approximately 42 million barrels for the year ended March 31, 2005. 103 Table of Contents On July 14, 2005, Mitsui announced that, it received an interim report from Sakhalin Energy Investment Co., Ltd. which were addressed to shareholders of the Sakhalin II project, namely, Royal Dutch/ Shell Group, Mitsui and Mitsubishi Corporation, relating to the possibility of changes in the total budget of the development plan for Phase 2 of the Sakhalin II Project, as well as the scheduled timing for the first delivery of LNG. The report indicates, as provisional estimates, that there would be the possibility that the total budget for the project could be of the order of 20 billion U.S. dollars and the first delivery of LNG would take place in mid 2008. Originally, the total budget for the Phase 2 development was expected to be approximately 10 billion U.S. dollars, with the first delivery of LNG expected to take place in 2007. Consumer Products & Services Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥152.6 ¥135.9 ¥16.7 Operating income 32.0 23.3 8.7 Equity in earnings of associated companies 3.7 6.3 (2.6 ) Net income 16.9 18.9 (2.0 ) Gross profit in the Consumer Products & Services Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥152.6 billion, an increase of ¥16.7 billion from the ¥135.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main factors contributing to this growth were as follows: • There was a ¥4.5 billion increase at MBK Real Estate Ltd. (the United States) resulting from strong sales of large commercial facilities and residential properties; • With the acquisition of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2005 increased by ¥5.1 billion from year ended March 31, 2004 reflecting its full year contribution; and • Mitsui’s profit margin on commodity trading in corn, soybeans, raw sugar and other agricultural commodities increased, following rises in the markets for those commodities. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥32.0 billion, an ¥8.7 billion increase over ¥23.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. An increase of ¥4.0 billion in selling, general and administrative expenses at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. was outweighed by the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥3.7 billion, a decrease of ¥2.6 billion from ¥6.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Ventura Foods LLC (the United States), engaged in food oil processing, recorded a decline of ¥1.1 billion due to falling sales prices as a result of increased competition in the first half of the year ended March 31, 2005. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥16.9 billion, a decrease of ¥2.0 billion from ¥18.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Although operating income rose, net income fell because of a decline in equity in earnings of associated companies, along with the following factors: • While we recorded a combined ¥4.0 billion gain on sales of shares in netprice, ltd. and VeriTrans, Inc., both IT-related companies, when they were listed on domestic stock exchanges in the year ended March 31, 2005, we recorded ¥6.7 billion gain on the sale of SKY Perfect Communications Inc. for the year ended March 31, 2004. • Considering a deterioration in financial conditions due to sluggish advertising revenue at satellite broadcasters BS-I, INCORPORATED and BS Japan Corporation, we recorded losses on these shares of ¥1.9 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. 104 Table of Contents Logistics & Financial Markets Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥46.7 ¥32.3 ¥14.4 Operating income 18.5 10.4 8.1 Equity in earnings of associated companies 2.4 0.2 2.2 Net income 11.8 4.8 7.0 Gross profit in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥46.7 billion, an increase of ¥14.4 billion from ¥32.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) increased gross profit by ¥11.0 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004 in energy derivative trading on the back of extremely high volatility in the crude oil market. Moreover, Mitsui’s transactions in commodities derivative in energy and non-ferrous metals and foreign exchange contracts produced good results. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥18.5 billion, an ¥8.1 billion increase from ¥10.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The increase in bonuses paid to traders at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. caused selling, general and administrative expenses to rise by ¥4.6 billion, partly offsetting the above-mentioned growth in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.4 billion, an increase of ¥0.2 billion from ¥2.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Mitsui Leasing & Development Ltd. (Japan) recorded an increase in its machinery and ship leasing business, reflecting the booming global shipping industry. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥11.8 billion, an increase of ¥7.0 billion from ¥4.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, which was attributable to the increase in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. Americas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥ 49.9 ¥ 40.7 ¥ 9.2 Operating income 14.7 8.5 6.2 Equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies 1.6 (2.5 ) 4.1 Net income 12.3 0.2 12.1 Gross profit in the Americas Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥49.9 billion, an increase of ¥9.2 billion from the ¥40.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Certain subsidiaries owned by Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. (the United States) increased gross profit. Steel product subsidiaries enjoyed favorable business conditions, namely, steep price rises in the steel product market reflecting the strong growth of the United States economy. Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (the United States) recorded a ¥3.5 billion rise in gross profit. In addition, Portac, Inc. (the United States), a subsidiary that manufactures lumber and lumber products, increased gross profit by ¥1.6 billion due to the surge in lumber prices. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥14.7 billion, a ¥6.2 billion increase from ¥8.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Selling, general and administrative expenses rose at Mitsui Steel Development Co., Inc. (the United States) and other subsidiaries, partly offsetting the above-mentioned growth in gross profit. 105 Table of Contents Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was a ¥1.6 billion, an improvement of ¥4.1 billion from the losses of ¥2.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. There was a rebound from the impact of losses on the operations in the manufacture and sale of gasoline additives, which were disposed of during the year ended March 31, 2004; moreover, TAMCO (the United States), an associated company engaged in the manufacture and sale of steel bar, increased earnings supported by rising prices in the steel material market. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥12.3 billion, an increase of ¥12.1 billion from the ¥0.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was due to increases in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. In addition, as described in the Chemical Segment section, this segment no longer had to bear its share corresponding to an 80% equity interest of a ¥13.7 billion charge recorded as other expenses for the year ended March 31, 2004, arising from the settlement of an antitrust lawsuit filed against Bioproducts, Inc. (the United States) which manufactures and sells feed ingredients. Europe Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥ 20.7 ¥ 20.0 ¥ 0.7 Operating income 2.4 3.0 (0.6 ) Equity in earnings of associated companies 0.1 0.2 (0.1 ) Net income 2.9 0.7 2.2 Gross profit in the Europe Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥20.7 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.7 billion from ¥20.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Gross profit of our trading subsidiaries in Europe generally stayed at about the same level as the year ended March 31, 2004. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.4 billion, a ¥0.6 billion decrease from ¥3.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, chiefly personnel expenses and office expenses, outweighed the above-mentioned growth in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥0.1 billion, a decrease of ¥0.1 billion from ¥0.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥2.9 billion, an increase of ¥2.2 billion from ¥0.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This was attributable to a ¥1.6 billion improvement in Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom), corresponding equity share owned by Mitsui & Co. (U.K.) Inc., reflecting the share recovery of net income as mentioned in the Energy Segment section. Other Overseas Areas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥25.8 ¥24.1 ¥1.7 Operating income 8.2 6.6 1.6 Equity in earnings of associated companies 0.5 0.4 0.1 Net income 13.8 10.4 3.4 Gross profit in the Other Overseas Areas Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥25.8 billion, an increase of ¥1.7 billion from ¥24.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This was 106 Table of Contents due to continuing favorable conditions for agent businesses, chiefly in the fields of steel products and chemicals at trading subsidiaries and overseas offices in Asia. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥8.2 billion, a ¥1.6 billion increase from ¥6.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase resulted from an increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥0.5 billion, a slight increase of ¥0.1 billion from ¥0.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥13.8 billion, an increase of ¥3.4 billion from ¥10.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was due not only to the increase in operating income, but also to improvement in the equity-based earnings corresponding to the share owned by Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. (Australia), in both Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) which showed strong growth in net income for the year ended March 31, 2005, as described in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment section. The increases in this segment attributable to these two companies were ¥0.9 billion and ¥0.8 billion, respectively. The Other Overseas Areas Segment also recorded a ¥1.4 billion gain on the sale of the segment’s shares in Bangkok Polyethylene Public Company Limited, a manufacturer of high-density polyethylene in Thailand. All Other Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 Change Gross profit ¥12.3 ¥10.4 ¥1.9 Operating loss (0.5 ) (1.9 ) 1.4 Equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies 0.4 (0.1 ) 0.5 Net income 4.4 1.9 2.5 The activities of this segment include development and marketing of systems, financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit in the All Other Segment for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥12.3 billion, an increase of ¥1.9 billion from ¥10.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This increase was mainly due to the increase at Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan), which is engaged in development and marketing of systems, and benefited from favorable conditions in the information service business. Operating loss of ¥0.5 billion was recorded for the year ended March 31, 2005 although this represented a ¥1.4 billion improvement from the loss of ¥1.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. The main reason for this improvement was the above-mentioned growth in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥0.4 billion, an improvement of ¥0.5 billion from the ¥0.1 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2004. The improvement was mainly due to the improved earnings of our associated companies in the financing services and leasing business. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥4.4 billion, an increase of ¥2.5 billion from the ¥1.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004. This was due to an increase in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies. In addition, for the year ended March 31, 2004, we recorded a ¥5.8 billion impairment loss of long-lived assets that had occurred when Takeoka Golf Club sold its public golf club business. We recorded an impairment loss of ¥3.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 on the land held by Mitsui for domestic development projects due to the decline in land prices in Japan. 107 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Year Ended March 31, 2004 Metal Products & Minerals Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥77.0 ¥71.5 ¥5.5 Operating income 28.7 24.7 4.0 Net income 24.2 16.1 8.1 For the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit increased by ¥5.5 billion to ¥77.0 billion, primarily attributable to the growth at overseas subsidiaries engaged in iron and steel raw materials driven by higher demand in China and other areas of Asia as well as strong market prices. For the year ended March 31, 2004, iron ore production volume at Australian iron ore subsidiaries, including Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia), increased by 3.6 million tonnes, reflecting strong demand for iron ore in China and other countries. During the year ended March 31, 2004, the U.S. dollar price of iron ore increased by 9% compared with the price of iron ore for the year ended March 31, 2003. Meanwhile, during the year ended March 31, 2004, the Australian dollar appreciated steeply against the U.S. dollar, rising from an average of U.S.$0.5656 for the year ended March 31, 2003 to U.S.$0.6941 for the year ended March 31, 2004, which reduced Australian dollar denominated revenues at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and a coal subsidiary, Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia). As a result, gross profit and operating income at Australian iron and steel raw material subsidiaries remained at the same high levels as for the year ended March 31, 2003. At an iron ore subsidiary, Sesa Goa Limited (India), there were sharp increases in gross profit and operating income because of growing iron ore exports to China and higher market prices of products in India. In addition, gross profit from steel scrap operations in the United States and Japan also increased as market prices rose in the first half of the year ended March 31, 2004. For steel products, gross profit declined slightly. Although exports to China and other Asian countries were stepped up and prices increased in Japan, gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2003 had included a significant contribution from highly profitable steel pipe export projects to China and other Asian countries, which did not continue into the year ended March 31, 2004. Operating income also rose by ¥4.0 billion to ¥28.7 billion, reflecting the above-mentioned increase in gross profit. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2004 was ¥24.2 billion, increased by ¥8.1 billion, which was attributable to the increase in equity earnings of associated companies as well as the above-mentioned growth in operating income. The following are reasons for the increase in equity in earnings of associated companies: • In the iron and steel raw material operations, we sold shares of Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. in September 2003 under a sales contract in March 2003 with CVRD, a Brazilian producer of iron ore and other minerals, and recognized a gain of ¥4.4 billion. At the same time, Mitsui acquired an 18.24% voting share of the outstanding shares of Valepar S.A. (Brazil), a controlling shareholder of CVRD that owns a 52.3% voting share of CVRD. Due to the strong performance of CVRD, our equity in earnings of Valepar S.A. for the year ended March 31, 2004 was ¥2.5 billion; and • In the non-ferrous metal operations, equity in earnings of Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile), a copper mine development company in Chile, rose to ¥1.9 billion as the global market price of copper increased from around the middle of the year ended March 31, 2004. 108 Table of Contents Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥128.7 ¥121.1 ¥ 7.6 Operating income 29.4 14.1 15.3 Net income (loss) 5.9 (9.2 ) 15.1 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased by ¥7.6 billion to ¥128.7 billion. The main elements of the growth were: • the contribution of large-scale electrical machinery and plant projects, including a power plant in Malaysia and an oil refinery in Russia; • in the information technology category, the increase at Mitsui & Associates Telepark Corporation (Japan), which changed its name to Telepark Corp in October 2004, by ¥3.0 billion reflected the introduction of new cell phone models which raised the sales volume and the contribution by newly acquired subsidiaries including Cablenet Saitama Co., Ltd. (Japan). • higher gross profit at automobile sales companies and logistics and transportation companies in certain areas of the world; and • increased sales and lease operations for ocean transport vessels as market prices, including the price of used vessels, climbed, despite lower gains on sales of leased aircraft. For the year ended March 31, 2004, operating income of ¥29.4 billion was also much higher by ¥15.3 billion due to an increase in gross profit and a decrease in provision for doubtful receivables, in contrast to the year ended March 31, 2003 when this segment suffered from provisions for doubtful receivables from: United Airlines, Inc. and other airline companies; domestic customers at Mitsui Bussan Plant & Project Corp. (Japan); and communications and transportation projects in Argentina. For the year ended March 31, 2004, in addition to an increase in operating income, net income recovered to ¥5.9 billion, an increase of ¥15.1 billion, which was primarily due to the recovery of equity in earnings of associated companies from the year ended March 31, 2003, in spite of a material write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2004 held by this segment. There was a ¥21.7 billion impairment loss on Mitsui’s investment in telecommunications carrier POWEREDCOM, Inc. in consideration of the deterioration in its financial position reflecting the operating loss caused by the fierce price competition along with expansion of the Internet and the decrease in revenues from fixed-line business. For the year ended March 31, 2003, we recorded an impairment loss of ¥9.4 billion on MD-11 leased aircraft due to a substantial decline in the fair value of this type of aircraft. As the business environment in the airline industry also remained weak during the year ended March 31, 2004, we posted another, but much less significant, impairment loss. Furthermore, in conjunction with our effort of reevaluating and restructuring the businesses of subsidiaries and associated companies, we sold the valve business of NBI Corporation (Japan) due to declining demand for its products caused by the sluggish capital investment in Japan. We also reorganized Mitsui Bussan Machinery Co., Ltd. (Japan) due to its poor performance caused by the shrinking construction and industrial machinery market. Regarding these two subsidiaries, we recorded impairment losses on property and equipment of ¥4.3 billion and other expense — net of ¥3.7 billion. Equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2003 was impacted by an impairment of ¥4.5 billion at NextCom K.K. (Japan) because of the other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of the securities and a loss of ¥4.6 billion at Furukawa Industrial S.A. Produtos Eletrico, a telecommunications associated company in Brazil, because of a significant provision for doubtful 109 Table of Contents receivables. The absence of such items for the year ended March 31, 2004 generated a substantial increase in equity in earnings of associated companies because of: • increasing sales volume of electric power at P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia); and • increased production and sales of automobile companies in Canada and Indonesia. Chemical Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥91.1 ¥69.3 ¥21.8 Operating income 31.4 18.3 13.1 Net income (loss) 11.4 (3.6 ) 15.0 For the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit increased by ¥21.8 billion to ¥91.1 billion due primarily to higher market prices of ammonia and other petrochemicals. During the year ended March 31, 2004, market prices of petrochemicals climbed along with prices of crude oil and natural gas. The price of ammonia reached the highest level in 30 years, and prices of olefins, aromatics, synthetic textile materials and other petrochemicals also increased. In addition, there was higher demand in Asia for all categories of petrochemicals. The result was growth in gross profit of petrochemical products, chiefly ammonia. In the plastics business, a new operation in China that produces liquid crystal cells for personal computers and mobile phones contributed to growth in gross profit. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2004 was ¥31.4 billion. The improvement of ¥13.1 billion was attributable to the increase in gross profit. This segment turned a net loss for the year ended March 31, 2003 to net income of ¥11.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, an improvement of ¥15.0 billion. In the petrochemicals business, losses were recorded for the year ended March 31, 2003 due to the discontinued operations at two North American subsidiaries, Transpacific Glycols, Inc. (the Unites States) and Pacific Ammonia Inc. (the United States). In addition, impairment losses of long-lived assets in a factory of an associated company, Vinylchloride (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. were recorded due to the lower market price for the year ended March 31, 2003. For the year ended March 31, 2004, there were no significant charges of this nature, which contributed to the improvement of net income for the year ended March 31, 2004 along with the increase in operating income. During the year ended March 31, 2004, losses on write-down of securities decreased from the year ended March 31, 2003 and included a ¥3.1 billion loss in investment in Ishihara Sangyo Kaisha, Ltd. Additionally, we recorded a ¥1.5 billion loss in the investment in Mitsui Denman (Ireland) Co., Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2004. However, this segment recorded a loss of ¥2.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, after income tax effect, reflecting the segment’s share of charges for the settlement of choline chloride antitrust lawsuits by Bioproducts, Inc. (the United States), a subsidiary jointly owned by the Chemical Segment and Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. that produces choline chloride, a feed ingredient. 110 Table of Contents Energy Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥54.6 ¥53.8 ¥0.8 Operating income 21.7 25.7 (4.0 ) Net income 24.4 23.0 1.4 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased slightly by ¥0.8 billion to ¥54.6 billion. Gross profit rose at Mitsui Oil & Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), as a result of an increase in sales prices of petroleum products which more than offset the increase in costs of these products. However, this increase was offset by petroleum products trading losses at Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom). Crude oil prices (Japan Crude Cocktail) were strong during the year ended March 31, 2004 due to OPEC’s announcement of its decision to cut production in the middle of the year ended March 31, 2004, ’turmoil in Iraq, and a low inventory level of petroleum products. The average price of crude oil per barrel rose from U.S.$26.7 for the year ended March 31, 2003 to U.S.$29.4 for the year ended March 31, 2004. Furthermore, the year ended March 31, 2004 showed growth in the demand for LNG and crude oil in Japan as the demand for electricity from thermal power plants increased and in China, South Korea and other Asian countries due to their expanding economies. Operating income was lower by ¥4.0 billion primarily because of an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses including research expenses for new businesses. Despite the decrease in operating profit, net income for the year ended March 31, 2004 was ¥24.4 billion, a slight increase of ¥1.4 billion compared with the year ended March 31, 2003. For the year ended March 31, 2004, impairment losses on long-lived assets substantially decreased by ¥7.5 billion to ¥1.7 billion from ¥9.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2003 at two domestic subsidiaries, Mitsui Oil & Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) and Kokusai Oil & Chemical Co., Ltd. (Japan). Their impairment losses on long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2003 primarily related to their gas stations in Japan. The cumulative effect of the initial application of SFAS No. 143 had an impact of ¥2.2 billion, which was mainly the cost of dismantling and removing gas production facilities owned by an associated company, but its equity in earnings slightly increased during the year ended March 31, 2004 because of strong operating results backed by higher sales volumes and high crude oil prices. In addition, equity in earnings of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) increased due to the improvement in the performance of its main business, Thai offshore gas development. Consumer Products & Services Segment Billions of Yen Year Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥135.9 ¥122.6 ¥13.3 Operating income 23.3 21.2 2.1 Net income 18.9 9.6 9.3 For the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit increased by ¥13.3 billion to ¥135.9 billion. Higher gross profit in the foods operations, which contributed in large part to the improvement of this segment, was primarily attributable to our newly acquired subsidiary Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) and secondly to the higher earnings at MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), our food wholesaler subsidiary, resulting from a higher volume of trading transactions with Ito-Yokado Group and other retailers. Bovine 111 Table of Contents Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE”) and avian influenza had a negligible impact on this segment’s results. Also, these increases were partially offset by the decreases in gross profit in: • the real estate operations after a strong performance for the year ended March 31, 2003 that was driven by the sales of condominiums in Japan and the sale of a large United States commercial facility by MBK Real Estate Ltd. (the United States); and • the general merchandise operations due to our lower trading transactions involved in sports and leisure activities for the year ended March 31, 2004. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2004 was ¥23.3 billion, an increase of ¥2.1 billion from the year ended March 31, 2003 in spite of the improvement in gross profit. In the foods operations, selling, general and administrative expenses rose at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) and MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), although the improvement in gross profit still outweighed the increase in expenses. The increase of ¥9.3 billion in net income to ¥18.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004 was primarily attributable to a turnaround of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan). It reported net income of ¥1.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2004, which was a ¥6.5 billion improvement from the year ended March 31, 2003, due to the drastic decrease in impairment losses on non-marketable equity securities and unused land, as well as the above-mentioned improvement in its gross profit. In addition, there was a ¥6.7 billion gain on the sale of all shares held in SKY Perfect Communications Inc. during the year ended March 31, 2004. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥32.3 ¥33.1 ¥(0.8 ) Operating income 10.4 10.9 (0.5 ) Net income 4.8 4.7 0.1 For the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit slightly fell by ¥0.9 billion to ¥32.3 billion due to a decrease in gain from foreign exchange transactions at Mitsui and decreases in the profit margin in the transportation businesses. Operating income decreased by ¥0.5 billion to ¥10.4 billion, reflecting the above-mentioned decline in gross profit. However, net income for the year ended March 31, 2004 increased slightly, which was attributable to improvement at an insurance related associated company. Americas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥40.7 ¥44.6 ¥(3.9 ) Operating income 8.5 9.5 (1.0 ) Net income 0.2 3.3 (3.1 ) Gross profit was lower by ¥3.9 billion mainly because of a decline in the steel products and machinery transactions at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and appreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar. The strong yen also held down selling, general and administrative expenses, allowing this segment to hold the decline in operating income to less than the downturn in gross profit. 112 Table of Contents Net income for the year ended March 31, 2004 decreased by ¥3.1 billion to only ¥0.2 billion due to the charges for the settlement of the antitrust lawsuits at our wholly owned subsidiary Bioproducts, Inc. (the United States). Such settlement charges were shared with the Chemical Segment that owns shares of this subsidiary jointly with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. Europe Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥20.0 ¥22.5 ¥(2.5 ) Operating income 3.0 4.2 (1.2 ) Net income 0.7 2.8 (2.1 ) For the year ended March 31, 2004, gross profit and operating income declined by ¥2.5 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively, as a result of the decline in the automobile businesses. Net income also decreased by ¥2.1 billion because there was a valuation loss on the investment of Mitsui & Co. UK PLC in Mitsui Denman (Ireland) Co., Ltd., a company in the chemical industry. Another cause of the lower net income was a loss at Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. (United Kingdom) due to poor petroleum products trading results. Other Overseas Areas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥24.1 ¥23.5 ¥ 0.6 Operating income 6.6 7.6 (1.0 ) Net income 10.4 8.6 1.8 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2004 was slightly higher because of the growth at Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. and other subsidiaries in China and the contribution of a newly established foreign trading subsidiary, Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd. The operating income shrank for the same reason as the above. Net income increased by ¥1.8 billion due to an increase of ¥1.1 billion in dividend income at Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. from local Hong Kong investee companies. All Other Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Gross profit ¥10.4 ¥10.6 ¥(0.2 ) Operating income (loss) (1.9 ) (1.8 ) (0.1 ) Net income 1.9 6.9 (5.0 ) The All Other includes business activities which primarily provide services, such as logistics service, financing service, development and marketing of systems, and office services, to external customers and/or to ourselves and associated companies. Gross profit and operating income for the year ended March 31, 2004 recorded almost the same level as the year ended March 31, 2003. 113 Table of Contents Net income decreased by ¥5.0 billion, which was primarily attributable to a loss in relation with Takeoka Golf Club, which was disposed of by sale during the year ended March 31, 2004 due to the declining number of visitors reflecting keen competition from adjacent golf clubs, and to impairment losses on long-lived assets at two other golf clubs. Inflation Management believes that inflation did not have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting policies and estimates are considered to be critical if they are important to our financial condition and results of operations and involve estimates that require management’s subjective or significant judgment about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. For a summary of our significant accounting policies including the critical accounting policies discussed below, please see Note 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the estimates that are based on historical experiences and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these evaluations form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions. The following items require significant management judgments and estimates. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The amount of impairment losses of long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other intangible assets, for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the balance of the long-lived assets, net of accumulated depreciation, as of the end of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Long-lived assets ¥845.9 ¥829.5 ¥835.3 Impairment loss 21.5 21.2 23.9 Impairment losses of long-lived assets had a material impact on our net income in recent years. These losses were mainly due to the decline in the profitability of the production facilities owned by certain subsidiaries and the value of land owned by Mitsui and its domestic subsidiaries. See “Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets” line-by-line explanation in “Results of Operations” for additional information. Our long-lived assets to be held and used or to be disposed of other than by sale are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. This review is performed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the aggregate amount of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows (“impairment analysis”). If the carrying value of the asset is greater than the aggregate amount of undiscounted future cash flows, then the asset is considered impaired, and an impairment loss is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. The fair value of the asset is calculated as present value of the future cash flows that are expected from the asset. 114 Table of Contents Cash flow projections used in our impairment analysis and fair value calculations are based on the business plan authorized by our management or, if this is not available, on the operating plan reflecting the most recent condition of the long-lived asset. In these plans, we assume, for example, that the most recent selling prices of the real estate in the surrounding areas will reasonably continue in the future, and estimate the sales prices of the products from facilities and equipment for the certain future period based on the average price of the equivalent length of period in the past or on the analysts’ reports. As for the discount rate used in fair value calculations, when expected variations in cash flows are not considered in the cash flow estimate, the discount rate, which includes the risk factor for the cash flow deviation, is used. Assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value are incorporated in the discount rate when such information is available. When such information is not available, an expected internal rate of return used for management purposes or a weighted average cost of capital of a company that owns the long-lived asset, whichever is higher, is also considered for the discounted cash flow calculation. Factors to be considered when estimating future cash flows and determining discount rates vary for each long-lived asset because of the difference in nature of the assets and in operating circumstances, such as location, owner, operator, profitability and other factors. Management believes that the estimates of future cash flows and the determination of discount rates and fair value are reasonable; however, changes in estimates resulting in lower future cash flows and fair value due to unforeseen changes in business assumptions could negatively affect the valuations of those long-lived assets. Allowance for Doubtful Receivables Since we are a general trading company, trade receivables represent a large portion of our total assets, and therefore, the accounting estimates used to establish an allowance for doubtful receivables are critical. When we deem it is probable that we will be unable to collect amounts that are contractually due to us for certain large loan receivables, the specific loan is reviewed for impairment. Factors considered in assessing collectibility include length of period overdue, financial condition of the debtor, requests for debt restructuring and filings for bankruptcy. An impairment loss for a specific loan deemed to be impaired, as specifically determined under SFAS No. 114, “Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan — an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 15,” is measured based on the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate or the fair value of collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The expected cash flows from assets and liabilities of the debtor and the fair value of collateral are determined mainly based on an evaluation of independent real estate appraisers, publicly available indication of the real estate price, market price of financial assets and liabilities, guarantors’ financial condition and other factors. The recoverable amounts are reviewed on a quarterly basis and if necessary, an additional allowance is established. See Note 7, “ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL RECEIVABLES,” for impaired loan amounts and the respective allowance amounts. In addition to the above, an allowance for doubtful receivables is recognized for probable losses inherent in receivables not specifically deemed to be impaired. The amount of allowance is the amount judged to be adequate based primarily on our credit loss experiences and an evaluation of potential losses on the receivables, considering various factors, including current economic conditions and financial condition of the debtor. We review the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful receivables by assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying value over the applicable collateral value. A receivable with an estimated collateral value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable default rate is determined by a customer’s credit rating that is identified for each customer based on our financial analysis. The default rate of each credit rating is determined based on our historical experiences. 115 Table of Contents Management believes that the estimates of the future cash flows, the fair value of collateral, the credit rating of customers and the corresponding default rate are reasonable; however, changes in estimates resulting in lower future cash flows and fair value of the collateral, due to unforeseen changes in business assumptions, or drastic increases in default rates based on negative changes in economic condition could negatively affect the valuations of related receivables. Impairment of Investment Securities An impairment of investment securities is charged to earnings when a decline in fair value below cost is other than temporary. The impairment of investment equity securities charged to earnings for recent fiscal years had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the cost of marketable and non-marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the impairment loss for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Impairment Impairment Impairment Cost Loss Cost Loss Cost Loss Marketable equity securities ¥ 191.0 ¥ 0.6 ¥ 178.6 ¥ 1.1 ¥ 140.5 ¥ 15.6 Non-marketable equity securities 214.1 15.9 216.6 29.7 234.0 22.3 Total ¥ 405.1 ¥ 16.5 ¥ 395.2 ¥ 30.8 ¥ 374.5 ¥ 37.9 Impairments were mainly due to the decline in the world economy for the year ended March 31, 2003, and the total amount of impairment loss has been decreasing along with the recovery of the world economy. Impairment losses on marketable equity securities have decreased substantially during the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, which suggests that the securities market prices and economic conditions of Japan, which predominantly affects our investment portfolio, has bottomed out. As for non-marketable equity securities, a ¥21.7 billion loss was recorded for a single investee, POWEREDCOM, Inc. based on the deterioration in its financial position from operating losses from its data communication business for the year ended March 31, 2004. Losses of ¥15.9 billion and ¥22.3 billion for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2003, respectively, consisted of various smaller amounts of losses. Management principally recognizes that a 50% or more decline in fair value of a security leads to the conclusion that the security has other than temporary impairment. If the decline is less than 50%, various factors, such as the extent to which the cost exceeds the market value, the duration of the market decline, our intention and ability to hold the investment until its market price recovery and the financial conditions of the investees, are considered in concluding whether the decline is temporary or not. As of March 31, 2005, there was no individual marketable security that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for one year or more. The aggregate unrealized loss amount of the marketable securities (approximately 20 issuers) that had been in continuous unrealized loss positions for less than one year and had severity of decline of fair value below cost ranging from 2% to 19% was ¥1.2 billion. But considering the combination of length of time that fair values have been below cost, the extent of decline and the financial condition of the investees, we expect that their fair value will recover above their costs while we hold these investments. For non-marketable securities, fair value of an investment is generally determined based on our equity in a net amount of the fair value of the investee’s assets and liabilities. In addition, where future business plans formally adopted by management of the entities are available and when deemed appropriate, discounted future cash flow method is used to determine the fair value of the non-marketable equity securities. The discount rate reflects risk factors for the cash flow deviation from the future business plans and assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value when the 116 Table of Contents information is available and appropriate. However, there are investments that are not evaluated for impairment because no events or changes in circumstances that may have had a significant adverse effect on the fair value were identified. See Note 5, “MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS,” for further discussion. Management believes that the criteria for evaluating the significance of the decline in fair value are reasonable and that as long as the economic condition continues to improve, the amount of impairment losses in investment securities will continue to decrease in the near future. However, changes in the securities market or circumstances of each individual investment due to unforeseen changes in economic and business assumptions could affect the valuation of the investment securities. Pension Benefit Costs Employee pension benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions, including discount, retirement, and mortality rates, which are based on the current statistical data, as well as the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and other factors. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the difference between actual results and the assumptions is accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affects the recognized costs and the recorded obligations in future periods. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, however, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our future pension costs and obligations. We determine the discount rates each year as of the measurement date, based on a review of interest rates associated with long-term Japanese government bonds or high-quality fixed-income corporate bonds. The discount rates determined on each measurement date are used to calculate the benefit obligation as of that date, and are also used to calculate the net periodic pension costs for the upcoming plan year. On March 31, 2003, to reflect declining current market interest rates in Japan, Mitsui, which is liable for most of our benefit obligations, reduced the discount rate for its pension plans from 3% to 2.25%. This change resulted in an increase in its projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) as of March 31, 2003 and its net periodic pension costs (“NPPC”) for the year ended March 31, 2004 by approximately ¥26.0 billion and ¥4.2 billion, respectively. Mitsui determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets based on the weighted-average rate of return computed by using the expected long-term rate of return on each asset class, which is derived from an extensive study conducted by investment advisors and actuaries on a periodic basis, and the target allocations for each asset class. The study includes a review of anticipated future performance with market analysis of individual asset classes, and also gives appropriate consideration to actual historical returns achieved by the plans. The subsidiaries determine the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets mainly based on the expectations for future returns by investment advisors and actuaries. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions for Mitsui’s pension plans: Billions of Yen Impact of Change in Assumption on Impact of Change NPPC for the Year in Assumption on Ending PBO as of March 31, 2006 March 31, 2005 50 basis point decrease in discount rate 1.8 14.0 50 basis point increase in discount rate (1.5 ) (13.1 ) 50 basis point decrease in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 1.0 — 50 basis point increase in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (1.0 ) — See Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES,” for further discussion about the estimates and assumptions on PBO and NPPC. 117 Table of Contents Tax Asset Valuation We classify subsidiaries and associated companies into the following five categories and evaluate realizability of deferred tax assets by each category. The valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets is established for the amount determined to be unrealizable. First Category The companies, which constantly generate sufficient taxable income every year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of each fiscal year, and no significant change exists or is expected in the business environment. For this category, we view all deferred tax asset amounts as realizable. Second Category The companies with stable operating results in the past years (approximately in the last three years), but do not generate sufficient taxable income in the current year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of the fiscal year. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income in the future is determined to be realizable. Third Category The companies with unstable operating results in the past years, and do not generate sufficient taxable income in the current year to cover all the future deductible temporary differences as of the end of the fiscal year. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within a reasonable estimation period (approximately five years) is determined to be realizable. Fourth Category The companies, which have significant amounts of tax loss carryforwards at the end of the fiscal year, have experienced the expiration of a significant amount of tax loss carryforward in the past three years, or will fail to utilize significant amount of tax loss carryforward up to the expiration date in the current period. For this category, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable with a high degree of certainty based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within the next fiscal year is determined to be realizable. If the tax loss carryforward results from a non-recurring and unusual event such as a significant restructuring of the business or a change in law or regulation, and the companies otherwise consistently generate taxable income, the portion of the deferred tax assets that is recoverable based on an analysis of the scheduled taxable income within a reasonable estimation period (approximately five years) is determined to be realizable. Fifth Category The companies, which recorded a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards for each of the past three years and are expected to record a significant tax loss in the current year as well. For this category, no deferred tax assets are determined to be realizable. For Mitsui, the realizability of deferred tax assets is determined based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, including all currently available information regarding tax deductibility on future years and ability to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of loss carryforward. Management believes it is more likely than not that all of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will be realized. However, the amount of realizable net deferred tax assets may change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are changed or if statutory 118 Table of Contents tax rates are changed. See Note 21, “INCOME TAXES,” for further discussion about the deferred tax assets and valuation allowance. New Accounting Standards The Meaning of Other-than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments In Issue No. 03-1, “The Meaning of Other-than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments,” the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus in November 2003 on certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about unrealized losses on debt and marketable equity securities and also reached a consensus in March 2004 on the application of a three-step impairment model for certain investments in securities and disclosures about investments accounted for under the cost method. The three-step impairment model of investments was planned to be effective for reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2004, however, in September 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. EITF 03-1-1 which delayed the effective date for Step 2 and Step 3 of the three-step impairment model until the final issuance of FSP No. EITF Issue 03-1-a. The effect of adoption of this consensus on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial as long as the current market environment remains unchanged. Inventory Costs In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, “Inventory Costs — an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.” SFAS No. 151 requires that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets — an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29.” SFAS No. 153 eliminates the exception to fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception to fair value measurement for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. SFAS No. 153 is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Share-Based Payment In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”). SFAS No. 123R requires the compensation cost from share-based payment transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. The amount of the compensation cost is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued or the liabilities incurred. In 119 Table of Contents addition, the award of liability instruments will be remeasured at the end of each reporting period. The compensation cost is recognized over the requisite service period. In April 2005, the SEC adopted a new rule which amends the effective dates for SFAS No. 123R. Under the new rule, SFAS No. 123R is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred During Production in the Mining Industry In March 2005, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue No. 04-6 (“EITF No. 04-6”), “Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred during Production in the Mining Industry.” EITF No. 04-6 requires that stripping costs incurred during the production stage of mine are variable production costs that should be considered a component of mineral inventory costs and are recognized as a component of costs of sales in the same period as the revenue from the sale of the inventory. EITF No. 04-6 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this consensus on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.” FIN No. 47 clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a legal obligation to perform asset retirement activities that are conditional on a future event if the amount can be reasonably estimated. FIN No. 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. FIN No. 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The effect of adoption of this interpretation on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures are defined in the SEC regulations as financial measures that either exclude or include amounts that are not excluded from or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio We refer to “Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“Net DER”) in this Liquidity and Capital Resources and elsewhere in this annual report. Net DER is comprised of “net interest bearing debt” divided by shareholders’ equity. “Net interest bearing debt” is defined as adjusted interest bearing debt described as below less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits. Our interest bearing debt primarily consists of long term debt, less current maturities, which are not readily repayable. As mentioned below “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives,” to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations in financial markets, currently we hold a relatively high level of cash and cash equivalents reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. Under this policy, Net DER is a useful internal measure for our management to review the balance between: • our capacity to meet debt repayments; and • leverage to improve return on equity in our capital structure. 120 Table of Contents Management believes it is also helpful for the readers of this annual report. To calculating our adjusted interest bearing debt, followings are the eliminating factors: • accounts payables, derivative liabilities and others; • capital lease obligations; and • SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment. Elimination of SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment is made because Japanese investors usually evaluate Net DER of other general trading companies in this manner. This measure does not recognize the fact that cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may not be available completely for debt repayments, but cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may be required for operational needs including certain contractual obligations or capital expenditure. “Net interest bearing debt” and “Net DER” are presented in the table below. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2005 2004 Short-term debt ¥ 615.4 ¥ 646.7 Long-term debt 3,196.9 2,898.9 Less eliminating factors included in long-term debt: Accounts payables, derivative liabilities and others (193.0 ) (147.6 ) Capital lease obligations (21.3 ) (19.2 ) Less SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment (58.2 ) (43.2 ) Adjusted interest bearing debt 3,539.8 3,335.6 Less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits (819.9 ) (685.0 ) Net interest bearing debt ¥ 2,719.9 ¥ 2,650.6 Shareholders’ equity ¥ 1,122.8 ¥ 963.3 Net DER (times) 2.42 2.75 The most directly comparable GAAP measure is considered to be “Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“DER”). However, this ratio measures gross debt relative to equity, and does not measure changes in cash position. Adjusted DER (times) 3.15 3.46 (defined as adjusted interest bearing debt divided by shareholders’ equity) Free Cash Flow We define “free cash flow” as the sum of net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities. Management believes that such indicator is useful to investors, to measure available net cash for investment in strategic opportunities and/or debt repayment; or magnitude of reliance on borrowing to procure fund for strategic investments. 121 Table of Contents The following table shows a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 200.1 ¥ 100.1 ¥ 52.1 Net cash used in investing activities (224.0 ) (134.2 ) (4.2 ) Free Cash Flow ¥ (23.9 ) ¥ (34.1 ) ¥ 47.9 Finance and Liquidity Management Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives Our basic funding policy is to secure stable sources of funds to maintain adequate liquidity and financing to satisfy capital requirements for our operations and to maintain the strength of our balance sheet. In order to achieve our objectives, our principal strategy is to obtain long-term funds (those with maturities of around 10-years) from financial institutions, including insurance companies and banks, and through the issuance of corporate bonds. In addition, we utilize financing programs provided by government financing agencies for various projects to obtain long-term financing. Another strategy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to flexibly meet capital requirements and to prepare for future debt-service requirements in case of unforeseen deteriorations in financial markets. We hold cash and cash equivalents as liquidity sources, which consist mainly of highly-liquid and highly-rated short-term financial instruments and deposits. We aim to maintain the level of cash and cash equivalents at about 10% of total assets, reflecting the current financial market conditions and future capital requirements. In principle, our wholly owned domestic subsidiaries do not raise their funds in financial markets or borrow from banks, but instead use a cash management service provided by Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. (Japan), our financing subsidiary, which centralizes the fund raising function and promotes efficient use of funds. We are currently extending this policy to our principal overseas subsidiaries. Funding Sources We borrow funds based on our longstanding relations with financial institutions in Japan and overseas, borrow from government financing agencies, and also utilize project financing. In addition to these funding sources, Mitsui maintains a ¥200 billion debt shelf-registration and a ¥2,400 billion commercial paper program in Japan. Similarly, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V., Mitsui & Co., Asia Investment Ltd. and Mitsui & Co., Ltd. have arranged a joint Euro medium-term note (“MTN”) program of U.S.$5 billion. Mitsui guarantees notes issued by these overseas subsidiaries. For raising short-term funds, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. has a U.S.$1.5 billion U.S. domestic commercial paper program, and we have made arrangements for commercial paper programs in some other overseas markets. Unused lines of credit, for short-term financing outside Japan, aggregated ¥498.5 billion at March 31, 2005. Certain foreign subsidiaries compensate banks for these facilities in the form of commitment fees, which were not material in each of the past three years. Taking advantage of a favorable financial market environment, during the year ended March 31, 2005, we increased long-term funding by borrowing from financial institutions and issuing bonds in Japan and MTNs in overseas markets for debt retirement and for working capital requirements. There were five bond issues that raised ¥55.0 billion in total (with maturities of 10 to 20 years) under the shelf-registration in Japan during the year ended March 31, 2005. As a result, long-term debt accounted for approximately 83% of total debt as of March 31, 2005, in which we regard as a satisfactory level from the viewpoint of our financial policies. 122 Table of Contents Approximately 76% of the balance of short-term and long-term debt as of March 31, 2005 was denominated in Japanese yen and the rest was mainly denominated in U.S. dollars. We employ certain derivative financial instruments, which include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts, to manage financial exposures resulting from our financing activities. Currency swap agreements and foreign exchange forward contracts are used to manage risks associated with the fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The principal financial derivative instruments that are employed to manage interest rate risk exposure are interest rate swap agreements. A large part of such agreements are used for fair value hedging of fixed rate interest-bearing debt, including fixed interest rate borrowing, bonds and notes, converting into floating interest rates based on the three-month or six-month LIBOR. The interest rates on approximately 81% of Mitsui’s long-term debt, other than borrowings for certain projects, were floating after taking into account interest rate swap arrangements as of March 31, 2005. See Note 26, “DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES” for further description of our risk management policies. Credit Ratings To facilitate access to funds from capital markets, Mitsui and our certain foreign trading subsidiaries have obtained ratings for their commercial paper (short-term debt) and long-term senior unsecured debt (long-term debt) from Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (“R&I”), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Standard and Poor’s Services (“S&P”). The ratings as of June 2005 were as follows: R&I Moody’s S&P Short-term debt a-1+ P-1 A-2 Long-term debt AA- A2 A- * * The credit rating by S&P on long-term debt was provided without our request. S&P in March 2005 raised our long-term corporate credit rating to “A-” from “BBB+.” S&P cited the following factors for the change in ratings: • the gradually improving financial profiles on the Japanese general trading companies, with evidence of an upswing in operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies supported by the progress in restructuring unprofitable businesses, and sound performance in their trading of energy and metal businesses; • the reduction in the risk from investments and loans, due to proper management of the risks involved in investments and loans, with the resulting improvement in the risk balance between shareholders’ equity and investments and loans; and • the continuation of our strategy to strengthen our profitability after credit costs. Moody’s in April 2005 upgraded the rating to A2 from A3 on unsecured long-term debt of Mitsui and its supported subsidiaries. Mitsui’s short-term debt rating was also upgraded to Prime 1 from Prime 2. According to Moody’s, this rating action reflects the progress the company has made in improving our debt to equity ratio (“DER”) and profitability over the past several years in the difficult operating environment. Mitsui intends to maintain and improve its current credit ratings by enhancing its earnings and risk management. Credit ratings are an assessment by the rating agencies of the credit risks associated with us and are based on information provided by us and other sources that the rating agencies consider reliable. Lower ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. Credit ratings do not constitute a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to change or withdrawal by each of rating agencies at any time. As rating agencies may have different criteria in evaluating the risk 123 Table of Contents associated with a company, you should evaluate each rating independently of other ratings. Ratings may be changed without pre-notice at any time. Liquidity Management For the interest rate structure and the maturity profile of our outstanding debt, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT.” We had working capital, or current assets minus current liabilities, of ¥1,138.9 billion, ¥900.7 billion and ¥806.4 billion as of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Short-term debt was ¥615.4 billion, ¥646.7 billion and ¥690.9 billion, and long-term debt less current maturity was ¥2,904.9 billion, ¥2,541.2 billion and ¥2,500.5 billion as of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents were ¥791.8 billion, ¥638.3 billion and ¥694.8 billion as of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition to cash and cash equivalents, we had time deposits and marketable securities of ¥28.1 billion and ¥28.1 billion, ¥46.7 billion and ¥29.3 billion, and ¥37.7 billion and ¥64.5 billion, as of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Net interest-bearing debt (interest-bearing debt less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits) was ¥2,719.9 billion, an increase of ¥69.3 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004. However, the net DER improved from 2.75 as of March 31, 2004 to 2.42 as of March 31, 2005, reflecting a strong increase in shareholders’ equity. Mitsui anticipates an increase in total assets from ¥7,593.4 billion as of March 31, 2005 to ¥8,000 billion as of March 31, 2006 in our outlook for the year ending March 31, 2006 due to our new investments. However, we expect to keep the net debt-to-equity ratio around 2.5 in order to maintain our sound financial standing while refraining from a highly leveraged funding policy and utilizing operating cash flows during this period for new investments. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities improved from 129.7% as of March 31, 2004 to 134.7% as of March 31, 2005 partly because long-term debt and bonds increased in line with our principal funding strategies as mentioned above. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities as of March 31, 2003 was 126.7%. As of March 31, 2005, we have given guarantees for obligations of various third parties and associated companies. These guarantees are not expected to require substantial use of our capital resources. We have not had any material payment requirements resulting from activities for the past three years. For details on guarantees issued by us, see Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” With the exception of project financing and non-recourse financing, it is our policy not to conclude agreements for important financial transactions with financial institutions that contain additional debt restriction clauses that may cause acceleration of our obligations, including debt incurrence restrictions, negative pledges, restrictions on dividend payments and various financial ratio limits, and there are no material financial covenants in the agreements undertaken. Assuming that our subsidiaries have sufficient distributable net assets or retained earnings as provided under the local laws of the relevant jurisdictions, there are no material contractual or legal restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. There are no material economic restrictions on payments of dividends, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries other than general withholding or other taxes calculated at the rates determined by the local tax laws of the relevant jurisdictions. We held ¥791.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2005 in comparison to ¥237.5 billion of outstanding debt from commercial papers, MTNs and bonds with current maturities. Of the cash and cash equivalents, approximately 72% was held by Mitsui and approximately 80% was denominated in Japanese yen. We believe that we maintain sufficient liquidity to satisfy our working 124 Table of Contents capital and debt-service requirements for the foreseeable future through existing cash and cash equivalents and time deposits, the sales of certain assets in parallel with outside borrowings from financial institutions, as well as, the issuance of bonds and notes. We plan to contribute ¥8.6 billion to our defined-benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2006. This fund requirement will be managed under our funding policy mentioned above. Investment Plans and Financial Policies of the Current Medium-Term Strategic and Financial Plan According to our two-year Medium-Term Strategic and Financial Plan (announced in May 2004) ending in March 2006, we plan to invest ¥400 billion during the period of the plan. By the end of March 2005, we had placed a total of approximately ¥260 billion into investments and the acquisition of long-lived assets. This included ¥62.8 billion for the Enfield crude oil development project, ¥82.4 billion for the Sakhalin II project, ¥63.4 billion for the purchase of Edison Mission Energy’s overseas power generation business portfolio, and ¥12.6 billion for the expansion of iron ore and coal mining in Australia. After the end of March 2005, we revised our investment plan, and announced in May 2005 that we expect to invest a total of ¥420 billion in the period from April 2005 to the end of March 2006. The principal investments in this plan are described below. — Approximately ¥200 billion in mineral resources and energy projects, — Approximately ¥100 billion in infrastructure projects, and — Approximately ¥100 billion in growing and strengthening fields such as consumer and financial products and services. Many of the projects in the investment plan involve bidding. The outcome of bidding will have an effect on our actual cash flows and financial condition for the year ending March 31, 2006. Our investment plan assumes that all of the planned investments will be made by the year ending March 31, 2006. We will procure funding for these investments by increasing internal liquidity, as well as fund raising (including project finance) from the private sector and government financing agencies, and direct financing from capital markets. We forecast our level of interest-bearing debt to increase by about ¥270 billion by the year ending March 31, 2006; however, this amount may vary, depending on the state of progress of the investment plan. In formulating our investment plans we are paying careful attention to our level of financial leverage — including our shareholders’ equity ratio and our net DER. Accompanying the revision of the investment plan outlined above, we have targeted a net DER of around 2.5 for the year ending March 31, 2006. Non-Exchange Traded Commodity Contracts at Fair Value We perform trading activities in commodities that are listed on the terminal (futures) markets. Our trading consists of derivative instruments traded in the commodity futures markets, as well as non-exchange traded commodity contracts including commodity derivatives. Non-exchange traded commodity contracts are recorded at fair value based on prices actively quoted in the terminal (futures) market for commodities such as precious metals. Some non-exchange traded commodity contracts, such as non-exchange traded derivatives of crude oil and oil products, are recorded at fair value based on the prices provided by other external sources. Their effect on earnings and financial position is immaterial. Transactions With Related Parties When conducting our business operations throughout the world, we form alliances with leading partner companies in Japan and overseas, including manufacturers and companies in raw materials resources fields, such as energy and ferrous materials. In addition to investing in associated companies 125 Table of Contents where we are a minority shareholder, we conduct selling and purchasing transactions of various products on a recurring basis with such associated companies. Our principal associated companies include Valepar S.A. (18.24%), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (50.00%), Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (44.34%), IPM Eagle LLP (30.00%), Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (28.91%), Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (25.00%) and United Auto Group, Inc. (15.53%), among others. During the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 our gross revenues from transactions with these associated companies amounted to ¥121 billion, ¥108 billion and ¥91 billion, respectively, and the values of goods and services purchased from such companies and reported as cost of revenues were ¥192 billion, ¥161 billion and ¥143 billion, respectively. Prices applied in transactions with associated companies are computed in the same way that such prices would be calculated in transactions with unrelated third parties. In addition, when associated companies are counterparties in transactions with us and we conduct such business under long-term procurement and/or sales contracts, in general, we conclude a corresponding sales contract with the purchasers (unrelated parties) of goods procured by us and/or with suppliers (unrelated parties) of the goods we sell to associated companies. In addition, as of March 31, 2005, we were the guarantor for ¥57.6 billion in funds borrowed and other financial obligations of associated companies. Regarding any other commitments related to transactions with associated companies, we do not normally assume risk in excess of our percentage of share ownership in such associated companies. Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Total assets as of March 31, 2005 increased by ¥877.4 billion to ¥7,593.4 billion, compared with ¥6,716.0 billion as of March 31, 2004. Current assets as of March 31, 2005 increased by ¥486.2 billion to ¥4,420.7 billion, compared with ¥3,934.5 billion as of March 31, 2004. The details of the increase are as follows: • Cash and cash equivalents increased by ¥153.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2004, mainly derived from our long-term borrowings and issuance of bonds. • As a result of increased business transactions and rising prices in various markets, accounts receivables and inventories increased by ¥156.9 billion and by ¥83.9 billion, respectively, mainly at subsidiaries in the Energy Segment, the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, and the Americas Segment. As a result of an increase in the derivative assets of Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom) and other subsidiaries in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment, other current assets increased by ¥74.1 billion. Current liabilities as of March 31, 2005 increased by ¥248.0 billion to ¥3,281.8 billion compared with ¥3,033.8 billion as of March 31, 2004. The main factors were as follows: • In addition to a ¥178.3 billion increase in accounts payables corresponding to the above-mentioned increase in accounts receivables, the increase in derivative liabilities of Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. and others led to a ¥92.1 billion increase in other current liabilities, corresponding to the above-mentioned increase in the derivative assets. • On the other hand, short-term debts declined by ¥31.4 billion, mainly due to the redemption of Mitsui’s commercial papers. Similarly, there was a decline of ¥65.7 billion in current maturities of long-term debt through repayments by Mitsui on the due date. As a result, working capital as of March 31, 2005, or current assets minus current liabilities, increased by ¥238.2 billion to ¥1,138.9 billion compared with ¥900.7 billion as of March 31, 2004 (including the above-mentioned increase in cash and cash equivalents by ¥153.5 billion). 126 Table of Contents The sum of total investments and non-current receivables, net property and equipment, intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, deferred tax assets — non-current, and other assets as of March 31, 2005 increased by ¥391.1 billion to ¥3,172.7 billion from ¥2,781.6 billion as of March 31, 2004. Within investments and non-current receivables, the total of investments in and advances to associated companies and other investments as of March 31, 2005 increased by ¥289.7 billion to ¥1,633.4 billion compared with ¥1,343.7 billion as of March 31, 2004. The details of the increase are as follows: • Investments in and advances to associated companies increased due to our investment in the preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) of ¥82.4 billion and through our investment in IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) of ¥63.4 billion that purchased Edison Mission Energy’s overseas power plant business portfolio. In addition, there was an ¥84.2 billion increase due to the increase in our equity in earnings of associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2005 and a ¥28.1 billion increase reflecting an increase in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities in relation to the investment in INPEX CORPORATION (“INPEX”) owned by our associated company Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) following INPEX’s initial public offering. • Other investments increased due to the increase in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities of ¥23.7 billion. Net property and equipment (less accumulated depreciation) rose by ¥63.6 billion to ¥662.7 billion compared with ¥599.1 billion as of March 31, 2004. The main assets acquired during the year ended March 31, 2005 were mineral rights of ¥48.5 billion as well as equipment and fixtures of ¥14.3 billion in relation to the Enfield crude oil project. Long-term debt, less current maturities as of March 31, 2005 increased by ¥363.7 billion to ¥2,904.9 billion from ¥2,541.2 billion as of March 31, 2004. This was due to an increase in borrowings from financial institutions and the issuance of bonds by both Mitsui and Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V. (Netherlands). In addition to the procurement of funding for investments and acquisition of property and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2005 as mentioned above, we have been proceeding with further funding procurement ahead of implementation of investments set forth in our investment plan. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2005 increased by ¥159.5 billion to ¥1,122.8 billion from ¥963.3 billion as of March 31, 2004, mainly due to the accumulation of retained earnings, but also as a result of an increase in unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. Cash Flows Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2005 2004 2003 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 200.1 ¥ 100.1 ¥ 52.1 Net cash used in investing activities (224.0 ) (134.2 ) (4.2 ) Net cash provided (used in) by financing activities 171.3 (12.2 ) 17.8 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 6.1 (10.2 ) (4.5 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 153.5 (56.5 ) 61.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 638.3 694.8 633.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 791.8 638.3 694.8 127 Table of Contents Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2005 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥200.1 billion, which was primarily attributable to: • Operating income which increased steadily in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment, Energy Segment, and other segments • Dividends received from associated companies as well as our investment in third parties amounting to ¥53.6 billion, mainly from investments in our mineral resource and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies • Total payments, in relation to contributions to our defined benefit pension plan and payments under unfunded severance indemnities plans amounting to ¥30.9 billion • A one-time payment of ¥8.1 billion for compensation and other charges related to DPF incident • Payments of ¥56.9 billion for corporate income taxes Net cash provided by operating activities increased by ¥100.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared with the year ended March 2004. The reasons for this increase were: • Operating income which increased by ¥71.2 billion in total, and by operating segment mainly attributable to a ¥39.4 billion increase in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and a ¥13.8 billion increase at the Energy Segment. • Dividends received from associated companies as well as our investments in third parties showed further increase. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 totaled ¥224.0 billion. Of this amount, ¥133.3 billion was used in relation to investments and loans. The details of the cash flows are as follows: • A total of ¥190.4 billion was paid for investments in and advances to associated companies. This included ¥80.7 billion* investment in preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and an investment of ¥62.2 billion* in IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) that purchased Edison Mission Energy’s overseas power generation business portfolio. Deduction of a ¥52.7 billion proceeds from sales of investments in and collection of advances to associated companies resulted in a net cash outflow of ¥137.7 billion. • A total of ¥68.5 billion was used on acquisition of debt securities for fund management purposes, mainly by Mitsui and its financing subsidiaries, and ¥59.8 billion was obtained as proceeds from maturities of debt securities. While ¥14.5 billion was provided by the sale of shares in Vodafone K.K., ¥8.9 billion was used in the purchase of shares in CornerStone Research & Development, Inc. (the United States). A total of ¥90.7 billion was paid for fixed assets, which includes property leased to others and property and equipment. The main items are listed below. • Payments of ¥64.4 billion* for the acquisition of mineral rights and other fixed assets in the Enfield crude oil project in Western Australia • Payments of ¥17.2 billion for the acquisition of facilities for the development of iron ore and coal * Cash flows in foreign currencies were translated into yen using the average foreign exchange rates during the year, and therefore differ from the amounts appearing in “Investment Plans and Financial Policies of the Current Medium-Term Strategic and Financial Plan” and “Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity” as above, which were translated by the current rate as of March 31, 2005. 128 Table of Contents • Payments of ¥16.0 billion for purchasing rolling stock and ocean vessels for lease, and proceeds of ¥17.0 billion from the sale of aircraft, rolling stock and ocean vessels for lease • A proceed of ¥10.8 billion from the sale of our office building in the United Kingdom • Proceeds of ¥12.8 billion from the sale of Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 increased by ¥89.8 billion compared with the year ended March 31, 2004. Large cash outflow and cash inflow for the year ended March 31, 2004 included an investment of ¥97.1 to acquire shares in Valepar S.A. (Brazil), an investment of ¥56.7 billion in the preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda), and a proceed of ¥49.8 billion from the sale of shares in Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥171.3 billion, which was primarily attributable to: • An increase in long-term and short-term debt of ¥183.8 billion, mainly consisting of the increased long-term borrowings and issuance of long-term bonds by Mitsui, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. and other trading subsidiaries. Of this amount, ¥141.2 billion was procured by Mitsui. • In response to increasing demand for funds for our investments and acquisition of fixed assets, we increased our level of long-term fund procurement, taking advantage of a favorable financial market environment. As a result, that our long-term debt increased by ¥120.7 billion in long-term borrowings and by ¥55.0 billion in bonds. • Other major cash flows from financing activities included a ¥2.6 billion proceed from the issuance of stock of Telepark Corp. (Japan), and payments of ¥14.2 billion for cash dividends. Cash flows from financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2005 increased by ¥183.5 billion compared with the year ended March 31, 2004. The main sources, as described above, were increases in levels of long-term fund procurement through our borrowings from financial institutions and issuance of bonds. Please refer to “Finance and Liquidity Management — Funding Sources” above for details of our fund procurement for the year ended March 31, 2005. Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year In addition to the increase of ¥6.1 billion due to changes in exchange rates, the balance of our cash and cash equivalents increased by ¥153.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 to ¥791.8 billion as of March 31, 2005. Cash Flows in the Current Medium-Term Strategic and Financial Plan Reflecting our active investment program, free cash flow, which we define as net of cash flows from operating activities (¥200.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005) and cash flows from investing activities (negative ¥224.0 billion for the same year) as shown in our Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows, was negative ¥23.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005. In the year ending March 2006, our free cash flow is expected to be approximately the same as the year ended March 31, 2005 mainly due to the following reasons: • Our analysis of the trends in mineral resource and energy prices and their expected influence on our operating results for the year ending March 31, 2006 suggests that rising resource and energy prices will continue to support growth in net income and operating cash flows in the year ending March 2006. • Many investments in our current Medium-Term Strategic and Financial Plan ending March 2006 will be made in the fields of mineral resources and energy. It will take a long time to begin generating cash inflow from those investments. 129 Table of Contents Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2004 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2004 was ¥100.1 billion, which was primarily attributable to: • operating income in almost all segments, especially in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and the Chemical Segment; and • dividends from associated companies and unrelated investees, particularly those operating in the natural resources business (e.g., iron and steel raw materials, oil and gas). The above net cash inflow was partly offset by the payment of U.S.$126.5 million, or ¥13.7 billion, for the settlement of a major part of choline chloride lawsuits in the United States. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by ¥47.9 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2003. The principal reasons for this increase were: • ¥21.9 billion higher operating income; and • ¥25.9 billion decline in contributions to defined benefit plans from ¥26.0 billion to ¥0.1 billion. In addition, during the year ended March 31, 2003, our domestic financing subsidiary, Bussan Credit Co., Ltd. (Japan), which has merged with other subsidiaries and been operating as Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. since April 2005., purchased trade receivables (Mitsui’s trade payables) at a discount from various suppliers, which caused early payments of our trade payables, which reduced net cash from operating activities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was ¥134.2 billion. There was a net cash outflow of ¥80.9 billion for investments and loans, which consisted of: • ¥124.8 billion cash inflow from proceeds from maturities of debt securities held by financing subsidiaries; • proceeds of ¥49.8 billion from the sale of investments in Caemi Mineração e Metalurgia S.A. (Brazil); • payment of ¥97.1 billion for investment in Valepar S.A. (Brazil); and • payment of ¥56.7 billion for the purchase of preferred stock of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda). As for the additions and sales of long-lived assets, cash inflow and outflow mainly consisted of: • purchases of mining facilities in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment; • purchases of aircraft, rolling stock and ocean transport vessels for leasing; • proceeds from sales of leased aircraft and ocean transport vessels; and • proceeds from sales of Mitsui’s residences and dormitories. Net cash used in investing activities increased by ¥129.9 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2003, due mainly to investments in Valepar S.A. in the Metal Products & Minerals Segment and Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. in the Energy Segment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the year ended March 31, 2004, Mitsui and its financial subsidiary repaid short-term and long-term debt, while Mitsui and its foreign trading subsidiaries raised ¥177.4 billion through the issuance of 130 Table of Contents bonds. As a result, net cash provided by short-term and long-term financing activities totaled ¥0.7 billion. After the payments of cash dividends, net cash used in financing activities totaled ¥12.2 billion. Cash flows used in financing activities increased by ¥30.1 billion from the cash flows of ¥17.8 billion provided by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2003, because: • there was an increase in borrowings at the above-mentioned financing subsidiary in Japan to finance early repayments of Mitsui’s trade payables during the year ended March 31, 2003; and • Mitsui and the domestic financial subsidiary increased the repayments of short-term debt. Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year Cash and cash equivalents declined by ¥56.5 billion after the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents. As a result, cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2004 were ¥638.3 billion. C. Research & Development For the year ended March 31, 2005, research and development (“R&D”) expenses totaled ¥5.6 billion, which consist mainly of ¥3.9 billion in the Chemical Segment related to nanotechnology, biotechnology and life sciences technology, ¥0.9 billion in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, and ¥0.7 billion in the Consumer Products & Services Segment including R&D relating to food products. In the nanotechnology field, a key research area in the Chemical Segment, we have been developing and promoting the commercialization of ethanol separation technology by using zeolite membranes, which will dramatically improve the energy efficiency of biomass ethanol production. Biomass ethanol is a renewable energy source, and as such it is being studied all over the world as an additive for automobile gasoline and fuel for electrical power generation, as a means of addressing the issue of global warming. By realizing improved energy efficiency in the production of biomass ethanol through the use of zeolite membranes, it is expected to reduce costs and promote the introduction of biomass ethanol fuel in Japan. Furthermore, carbon nanotubes are expected to be developed for a variety of advanced applications in the future, and we are continuing to cooperate with industry and academia to conduct development research into these applications, providing the produced carbon nanotubes for many partner university laboratories and companies as we strive together to commercialize this technology. With regards to the manufacturing of zeolite membranes and carbon nanotubes, we build a commercial plant for zeolite membranes (dehydration membranes) during the year ending March 31, 2006, and we are also laying the groundwork for establishing a company for carbon nanotubes during the same year. In addition, with the primary objective of expanding demand for methionine, a feed supplement subsidiary, Novus International Inc. (the United States) has been working to develop new applications and manufacturing processes, and has also been conducting R&D in feed analysis services and new products by using a broad array of techniques ranging from cellular biology techniques to living-body experiments. These R&D efforts are producing tangible results, such as improvements in the market’s view for its products, the startup of a new plant for intermediates, and the debut of new products in the area of organic acids and organic minerals. In the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment, Chlorine Engineers Corp. (Japan) — a unit of a subsidiary, MBK Project Holdings Ltd. (Japan) that is engaged in the business of making electrolyzers and providing engineering for chlor-alkali plants — continuously conducts research on the structure of electrolyzers and the optimization of the materials used in these devices, in order to realize energy savings by boosting plant operating rates and prolonging the lifespan of these electrolyzers. This research helps reduce operating and maintenance costs for users, and also contributes to the protection of the environment. 131 Table of Contents As a food related activities in the Consumer Products & Services Segment, a subsidiary, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) is primarily focused on the commercialization of its research into the health benefits, application and material development of catechin, a substance in tea that has high sterilization and anti-viral properties, and to its commercialization in the pharmaceutical field. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. is pursuing research with universities and research institutions inside and outside of Japan, and seeking to uncover the bioactive properties of tea, it is also using genetic engineering methods to establish microbe identification technology and methods for analyzing foreign substances and offensive odors. For the year ended March 31, 2004, R&D expenses were ¥6.0 billion. Principal R&D activities undertaken were related to nanotechnology and biotechnology in the Chemical Segment, electrolysis technology in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment and food-related initiatives in the Consumer Products & Services Segment. R&D expenses incurred in these three segments were ¥4.5 billion, ¥1.1 billion and ¥0.3 billion, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2003, R&D expenses were ¥3.4 billion. R&D activities were mainly related to nanotechnology and biotechnology in the Chemical Segment and information technology in the Machinery, Electronics & Information Segment. R&D expenses incurred in these three segments were ¥2.0 billion and ¥1.2 billion, respectively. D. Trend Information See relevant discussion elsewhere in this item. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We use off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business to further our trading, fund-raising and other activities. Categories of off-balance arrangements are as follows: Guarantees The following tables summarize our guarantees as of March 31, 2005 and 2004. The maximum potential amount of future payments represents the amount without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provision or from collateral held or pledged that we could be obliged to pay if there were defaults by guaranteed parties or there were changes in an underlying which would cause triggering events under market value guarantees and indemnification contracts. Such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated losses on these guarantees and indemnifications, and they greatly exceed anticipated losses. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset our payments under guarantees. The carrying amounts of liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect our best estimate of future payments we may incur as part of fulfilling our guarantee obligations. Billions of Yen Maximum Recourse Carrying Potential Amount Provisions/ Amount of As of March 31, 2005: of Future Payments Collateral Liabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 194 ¥ 31 ¥ 3 Performance Guarantees 33 6 0 Market Value Guarantees 73 42 — Billions of Yen Maximum Recourse Carrying Potential Amount Provisions/ Amount of As of March 31, 2004: of Future Payments Collateral Liabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 258 ¥ 41 ¥ 6 Performance Guarantees 37 6 0 Market Value Guarantees 62 36 — 132 Table of Contents In the furtherance of our trading activities, it is a customary practice for us to guarantee, severally or jointly with others, indebtedness of certain of our customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. As lessees in operating lease contracts, certain subsidiaries have issued residual value guarantees of leased ocean transport vessels, and on the date of expiration of operating lease contracts, such subsidiaries will either purchase the leased assets at a fixed price or will be responsible for making up any shortfall between the actual sales price and the guaranteed value. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (revised December 2003) — an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,” on December 31, 2003, we consolidated ¥19.9 billion and ¥20.2 billion of total assets related to certain ocean transport vessels entities at March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. This information is provided in Note 24, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Sales of Trade Receivables Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. use off-balance sheet arrangements in which certain trade receivables are sold to third parties. At March 31, 2005 and 2004, the outstanding amounts of these off-balance sheet arrangements were immaterial. Variable Interest Entities We are involved with and have significant variable interests in a number of variable interest entities that are not consolidated because we are not the primary beneficiary, but in which we have significant variable interests. These variable interest entities mainly engage in leasing and financing activities. Further information is provided in Note 24, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Commitments on Deferred Payments We had financing commitments totaling ¥2.7 billion at March 31, 2005, principally for financing, on a deferred-payment basis, the cost of ocean transport vessels and equipment to be purchased by our customers. We had so much financing commitments at March 31, 2004. Further information is provided in Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations The following table provides our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2005 and payment due by period of these contractual obligations: Billions of Yen Payment Due by Period Balance as of After Contractual Obligations March 31, 2005 March 2006 March 2008 March 2010 March 2010 Long-Term Debt ¥ 3,118 ¥ 255 ¥ 704 ¥ 664 ¥ 1,495 Capital Lease Obligations 23 6 8 2 7 Operating Leases 105 22 29 19 35 Purchase Obligations 2,317 774 803 305 435 Total ¥ 5,563 ¥ 1,057 ¥ 1,544 ¥ 990 ¥ 1,972 The amounts of “Long-Term Debt” include bank borrowings, bonds and long-term trade payables, excluding the effect of SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment and capital lease obligations (present value of net minimum lease payments). “Capital Lease Obligations” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum lease payments. “Operating Leases” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum rentals. Minimum rental payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of ¥59 billion due in the future under noncancelable subleases. “Purchase Obligations” represents the schedule of payments for long-term purchase obligations, net of advance payments of ¥77 billion made to suppliers as of 133 Table of Contents March 31, 2005. The purchased items are principally chemical materials, oil products, ocean transport vessels, metals and machinery and equipment, either at fixed prices or at basic purchase prices adjustable to the market. In general, our customers, primarily large Japanese industrial companies and shipping firms, are also parties to the contracts or by separate agreements and are committed to purchase the items from us. In addition to the above, we plan to contribute ¥8.6 billion to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2006. For additional information regarding long-term debt, capital lease obligations and operating leases, and purchase obligations, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT,” Note 8, “LEASES,” and Note 23, “COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES,” respectively. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. A. Directors and Senior Management. We are managed by a Board of Directors and Executive Officers. As of June 30, 2005, we have eleven Directors and thirty-eight Executive Officers including eight of which are also Directors. In accordance with Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Rules of the Board of Directors, each Director was elected for a term of one year. Each Executive Officer has been appointed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is our decision-making body. The Board of Directors determines our basic guidelines and policies by establishing our corporate strategy, reviewing our business plans, and supervising and monitoring the activities of our Executive Officers. The Executive Officers are responsible for the execution of our corporate activities. They must follow and enforce the general guidelines and policies established by the Board of Directors and Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation. As of June 30, 2005, Mitsui’s Executive Officers consisted of one President, three Executive Vice Presidents, six Senior Executive Managing Officers, ten Executive Managing Officers and eighteen Managing Officers. The execution of the Directors’ functions (including their functions to supervise and monitor the activities of the Executive Officers) is audited by Corporate Auditors. Each Corporate Auditor is elected by shareholders of Mitsui at a general meeting of the shareholders. As of June 30, 2005, we have five Corporate Auditors. In performing their auditing activities, they act independently of each other while they constitute and act through the Board of Corporate Auditors as the applicable Japanese laws and regulations require. Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers Our Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers as of the end of June 2005 were: Directors Name Position Nobuo Ohashi Chairman and Director Shoei Utsuda Executive Director Tetsuya Matsuoka Executive Director Masataka Suzuki Executive Director Gempachiro Aihara Executive Director Yushi Nagata Executive Director Hiroshi Tada Executive Director Yasunori Yokote Executive Director 134 Table of Contents Name Position Kazuya Imai Executive Director Akishige Okada(1) Director; Advisor, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Akira Chihaya(1) Director; Representative Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nippon Steel Corporation (1) Mr. Akishige Okada and Mr. Akira Chihaya are external directors as provided for in Item 7-2, Clause 2, Article 188 of the Commercial Code of Japan. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” Corporate Auditors Name Position Tasuku Kondo(2) Corporate Auditor Hiroshi Matsuura(2) Corporate Auditor Ko Matsukata(3) Corporate Auditor, Senior Consultant, Mitsui Sumitomo Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Yasutaka Okamura(3) Corporate Auditor, Member of the Japan Federation of Bar Associations. Hideharu Kadowaki(3) Corporate Auditor, Chairman of the Institute, The Japan Research Institute, Limited (2) Mr. Tasuku Kondo and Mr. Hiroshi Matsuura are Corporate Auditors of full-time service as provided for in Clause 2, Article 18, of the “Law Concerning Special Measures under the Commercial Code with Respect to Audit, etc. of Corporations” of Japan. (3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura and Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki are external Corporate Auditors as provided for in Clause 1, Article 18 of the aforementioned law. Executive Officers Name Title and Principal Position Shoei Utsuda President and Chief Executive Officer Yasuo Hayashi Executive Vice President; Managing Director, Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC Tetsuya Matsuoka Executive Vice President; Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit; Machinery Business Unit; Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit; Financial Markets Business Unit; Transportation Logistics Business Unit Masataka Suzuki Executive Vice President; Organic Chemicals Business Unit; Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit; Foods & Retail Business Unit; Lifestyle Business Unit; Consumer Service Business Unit Gempachiro Aihara Senior Executive Managing Officer, Regional Managing Director, Asia; DPF Matters Yushi Nagata Senior Executive Managing Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Information Strategic Planning Division, Corporate Planning and Strategy Division, Corporate Administrative Division, Corporate Communications Division, Investor Relations Division); Overall Administrative Divisions of Business Units; New Business Promotion; Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters; Director, Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC Hiroshi Tada Senior Executive Managing Officer; Iron & Steel Products Business Unit; Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit; Energy Business Unit 135 Table of Contents Name Title and Principal Position Yasunori Yokote Senior Executive Managing Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Secretariat, Compliance & Operational Control Division, Human Resources & General Affairs Division, Legal Division); Chief Compliance Officer; Chief Privacy Officer; Environmental Matters; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters Kazuya Imai Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters; Director, Mitsui & Co.(U.S.A), Inc. Toshihiro Soejima Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Motokazu Yoshida Executive Managing Officer; Chairman for the Americas Yoshiyuki Izawa Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Osaka Office Osamu Mori Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Financial Markets Business Unit Satoru Miura Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Nagoya Office Masayoshi Sato Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Foods & Retail Business Unit Ken Abe Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit Takao Sunami Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Machinery Business Unit Junichi Matsumoto Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Transportation Logistics Business Unit Shunichi Miyazaki Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Internal Auditing Division Hiroshi Ito Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Consumer Service Business Unit Takeshi Ohyama Managing Officer; General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in Indonesia Shinjiro Ogawa Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit Toshimasa Furukawa Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Power, Transportation & Plant Projects Business Unit Akio Ikeda Managing Officer; Chairman & Managing Director, Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Jitsuro Terashima Managing Officer; President, Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Motonori Murakami Managing Officer; General Manager, General Accounting & Risk Management Division Kyoichi Endo Managing Officer; Managing Director, Mitsui & Co. UK PLC Toshio Awata Managing Officer; General Manager, Information Strategic Planning Division; Chief Information Officer Koji Nakamura Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit Toru Kitamura Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Lifestyle Business Unit Kenichi Yamamoto Managing Officer; General Manager, Human Resources & General Affairs Division Masaaki Murakami Managing Officer; President, Mitsui & Co.(CANADA) Ltd. 136 Table of Contents Name Title and Principal Position Kiyotaka Watanabe Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Masaaki Fujita Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Foods & Retail Business Unit Junichi Mizonoue Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Organic Chemicals Business Unit Takao Omae Managing Officer; President, Mitsui Brasileira Importação e Exportação S.A. Norinao Iio Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Energy Business Unit Osamu Koyama Managing Officer; Executive Vice President, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. The date of birth, the current position and the prior positions of our Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers is provided below. Directors Name Nobuo Ohashi Date of Birth September 13, 1938 Current Position Chairman and Director (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 1994 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Seoul Office) • 1996 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit • 1997 Executive Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit • 1998 Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 1999 Senior Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2000 Executive Vice President • 2002 /4 Executive Vice President, President of Consumer Products & Services Group • 2002/10 Chairman and Executive Director Name Shoei Utsuda Date of Birth February 12, 1943 Current Position President and Chief Executive Officer , Executive Director (since October 1, 2002) Prior Positions • 1997 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Machinery, Electronics & Information Administrative Division) • 1998 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit • 2000 Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2002/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Strategic Officer, Responsible for Administration Division 137 Table of Contents Name Tetsuya Matsuoka Date of Birth January 5, 1945 Current Position Executive Vice President , Executive Director (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 1998 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Metals Administrative Division) • 1999 Director, Chief Operating Officer of Non-Ferrous Metals Unit • 2001 Executive Managing Director, Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC, Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. UK PLC and Chairman of Mitsui & Co. International (Europe) B.V. • 2002 Senior Executive Managing Officer & Chief Strategic Officer, Responsible for Administration Division • 2003 Executive Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters • 2004 Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Masataka Suzuki Date of Birth April 2, 1944 Executive Vice President , Executive Director (since April 1, Current Position 2005) Prior Positions • 1999 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Textile & Fashion Unit) • 2002/4 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Textile & Fashion Unit, Consumer Products & Services Group • 2002/10 Executive Managing Officer, President of Consumer Products & Services Group • 2003 Executive Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Gempachiro Aihara Date of Birth October 3, 1943 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Regional Managing Director, Asia; Executive Director (since October 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Performance Chemicals Unit) • 2002/4 Executive Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2004 /6 Executive Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer 138 Table of Contents Name Yushi Nagata Date of Birth August 30, 1946 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters ; Executive Director (since June 24, 2004) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Plant & Project Business Unit) • 2001 Director, Operating Officer of Electric Machinery, Plant & Project Business Unit • 2002/4 Executive Managing Officer, Operating Officer of Electric Machinery, Plant & Project Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2002/10 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electric Machinery, Plant & Project Business Unit • 2004/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters Name Hiroshi Tada Date of Birth March 3, 1945 Senior Executive Managing Officer; Executive Director (since June Current Position 24, 2005) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit) • 2002/4 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit, Metals Group • 2003 Executive Managing Officer, Chairman for the Americas, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. • 2004/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Yasunori Yokote Date of Birth June 23, 1946 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer; Chief Privacy Officer; Environmental Matters; Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters; Executive Director, (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Personnel Division) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in Indonesia • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in Indonesia • 2004 Executive Director, Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer 139 Table of Contents Name Kazuya Imai Date of Birth April 20, 1946 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters; Executive Director, (since June 24, 2005) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Executive Vice President of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) • 2002/1 Director • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Internal Auditing Division • 2005 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Business Process Re-Engineering Project Headquarters Name Akishige Okada Date of Birth April 9, 1938 Current Position Director (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions • 1991 Director, The Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, Ltd. • 1997 President , The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 2001 Director, Chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2002 Director, Chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group • 2005 Advisor, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Name Akira Chihaya Date of Birth March 6, 1935 Current Position Director (since June 24, 2004) Prior Positions • 1987 Director of Nippon Steel Corporation • 1998 Representative Director and President of Nippon Steel Corporation • 2003 Director, Representative Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nippon Steel Corporation (remaining in the same position on June 30,2005) Corporate Auditors Name Tasuku Kondo Date of Birth August 12, 1942 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2005) Prior Positions • 1996 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Finance Division) • 1998 Executive Managing Director • 2002 Senior Executive Managing Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Responsible for General Accounting Division, Finance Division and Corporate Risk Management Division • 2004 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer • 2005/4 Executive Director 140 Table of Contents Name Hiroshi Matsuura Date of Birth May 24, 1946 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions • 1996 General Manager of Credit Division • 2002 General Manager of Corporate Risk Management Division Name Ko Matsukata Date of Birth March 27, 1933 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 1996) Prior Positions • 1990 President of Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1996 Vice Chairman of Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 1997 Senior Advisor to Board of Mitsui Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. • 2001 Senior Consultant, Mitsui Sumitomo Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2005) Name Yasutaka Okamura Date of Birth June 13, 1929 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 27, 2003) Prior Positions • 1992 Prosecutor, General • 1994 Attorney at Law (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2005) • 1997 Corporate Auditor of Toyota Motor Corporation (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2005) Name Hideharu Kadowaki Date of Birth June 20, 1944 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2004) Prior Positions • 2001 Executive Managing Director of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2003 Director, Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group • 2004 Chairman of the Institute, The Japan Research Institute, Limited (remaining in the same position on June 30, 2005) Executive Officers (excluding Executive Officers who are also a Director) Name Yasuo Hayashi Date of Birth August 5, 1942 Current Position Executive Vice President, Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Executive Managing Director) • 2001 Executive Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer of Electric Machinery, Plant & Project Business Unit, Machinery Electronics & Information Group • 2002 Executive Managing Director, President of Machinery Electronics & Information Group • 2003 Senior Executive Managing Officer 141 Table of Contents Name Toshihiro Soejima Date of Birth November 10, 1946 Current Position Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Devices Business Unit) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Electronics Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2003 Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning & Strategy Division • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Name Motokazu Yoshida Date of Birth January 7, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chairman for the Americas and President and Chief Executive Officer of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2003 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles, Marine & Aerospace Business Unit • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Machinery Business Unit Name Yoshiyuki Izawa Date of Birth February 10, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Osaka Office (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit 142 Table of Contents Name Osamu Mori Date of Birth January 1, 1949 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Financial Markets Business Unit (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Finance Division) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Finance Division • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, General Manager of Finance Division • 2003 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer, of Financial Markets Business Unit Name Satoru Miura Date of Birth March 2, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Nagoya Office (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit) • 2002/4 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit, Metals Group • 2002/6 Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Name Masayoshi Sato Date of Birth November 30, 1945 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Foods & Retail Business Unit (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Foods Unit Name Ken Abe Date of Birth September 19, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Metals Administrative Division • 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit Name Takao Sunami Date of Birth August 22, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Machinery Business Unit (since January 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of e-Mitsui Business Division • 2003 Managing Officer, General Manager of Fukuoka Office 143 Table of Contents Name Junichi Matsumoto Date of Birth September 25, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2003 Managing Officer, Deputy General Vice Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit Name Shunichi Miyazaki Date of Birth February 11, 1948 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Internal Auditing Division (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Consumer Products & Services Administrative Division Name Hiroshi Ito Date of Birth February 8, 1947 Current Position Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Consumer Service Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Service Business Unit • 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Consumer Service Business Unit Name Takeshi Ohyama Date of Birth May 18, 1947 Current Position Managing Officer, General Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in Indonesia (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Personnel Division Name Shinjiro Ogawa Date of Birth September 17, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information, Electronics and Telecommunication Business Unit (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Machinery, Electronics & Information Administrative Division Name Toshimasa Furukawa Date of Birth December 25, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, General Manager of Machinery, Electronics & Information Administrative Division (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, President of Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. Name Akio Ikeda Date of Birth January 1, 1947 Current Position Managing Officer, Chairman & Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of General Merchandise Unit 144 Table of Contents Name Jitsuro Terashima Date of Birth August 11, 1947 Current Position Managing Officer, President of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute (since April 1, 2003) Name Motonori Murakami Date of Birth November 19, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, General Manager of General Accounting & Risk Management Division (since April 1, 2004) Prior Positions • 2003 Managing Officer, General Manager of General Accounting Division Name Kyoichi Endo Date of Birth October 5, 1947 Current Position Managing Officer, Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. UK PLC and Deputy Managing Director, Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC (since April 1, 2004) Name Toshio Awata Date of Birth July 28, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer & General Manager of Information Strategic Planning Division (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer & General Manager of Business Process Re-Engineering Division Name Koji Nakamura Date of Birth August 15, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Business Unit (since April 1, 2004) Name Toru Kitamura Date of Birth March 23, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Lifestyle Business Unit (since April 1, 2004) Name Kenichi Yamamoto Date of Birth July 25, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of Personnel Division Name Masaaki Murakami Date of Birth August 10, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, President, Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. (since April 1, 2005) Prior Positions • 2004 Managing Officer, General Manager of Chemical Administrative Division Name Kiyotaka Watanabe Date of Birth May 31, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) 145 Table of Contents Name Masaaki Fujita Date of Birth January 4, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, Deputy Chief Operating Officer of Foods & Retail Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Name Junichi Mizonoue Date of Birth February 15, 1950 Current Position Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Organic Chemicals Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Name Takao Omae Date of Birth December 18, 1949 Current Position Managing Officer, President of Mitsui Brasileira Importação e Exportação S.A. (since April 1, 2005) Name Norinao Iio Date of Birth March 2, 1951 Current Position Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit (since April 1, 2005) Name Osamu Koyama Date of Birth August 8, 1948 Current Position Managing Officer; Executive Vice President of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. (since April 1, 2005) There is no family relationship between any Directors, Corporate Auditors, Executive Officers and any other persons named above. There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above and any other person pursuant to which they were selected as a Director, a Corporate Auditor or a member of the senior management. B. Compensation. The aggregate amount of compensation, including benefits from Directors’, Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ Pension Plan, paid to Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2005, was ¥4,070 million. In accordance with customary Japanese business practices, a retiring Director or Corporate Auditor receives a retirement allowance, which is subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of the shareholders. The amount of the retirement allowance generally reflects the number of years of service, rank at the time of retirement and special contributions to our performance. Retirement allowances, including benefits from Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ Pension Plan, paid to retired individual Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2005 totaled ¥1,439 million, and the annual bonuses paid to Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥207 million, both of which were included in the ¥4,070 million aggregate compensation discussed above. The amount set aside by us for Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ Pension Plan to provide pension benefit to retired Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers was ¥1,632 million as of March 31, 2005. The retirement allowance system for Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers was abolished pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors in February 2004. 146 Table of Contents Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation do not provide for the establishment of stock option plans for Mitsui’s directors and senior management. C. Board Practices. The information in “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” is incorporated into this section by reference. None of our Directors have entered into any service contracts with us providing for benefits upon termination of his or her employment. A 2002 amendment to the Commercial Code of Japan gave the company the alternative of selecting the “Committee System” as the framework for corporate governance. We decided, however, to maintain the current system with corporate auditors because we believe that our corporate auditors, of which two are full-time and three are external auditors as of June 30, 2005 and their functions are legally defined and reinforced, provide adequate auditing functions. Furthermore, internal directors are familiar with our business operations and can therefore contribute to effective management. Although we retained the corporate auditor system, we did decide to adopt certain aspects of the Committee System and have established three committees (The Governance Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee) to provide advice to the Board of Directors. In addition, other measures have been taken, such as shortening the term of Directors and Executive Officers from two years to one year, eliminating the retirement allowance, and increasing the number of external directors. Our Directors and Corporate Auditors are elected at a general meeting of shareholders. In accordance with our Articles of Incorporation, Rules of the Board of Directors and Rules of the Corporate Auditors, the normal term of office for its Directors is one year(1) and for its Corporate Auditors is four years. However, they may both serve any number of consecutive terms. The following table shows our Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ terms of office and their shareholdings as of June 30, 2005. Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment Shareholdings as of to June 2005)(1) June 30, 2005 Director: Nobuo Ohashi 11 years 57,868 Shoei Utsuda 8 years 36,810 Tetsuya Matsuoka 6 years 24,567 Masataka Suzuki 5 years 16,103 Gempachiro Aihara 3 years 12,670 Yushi Nagata 3 years 18,070 Yasunori Yokote 3 years 13,525 Hiroshi Tada 2 years 15,473 Kazuya Imai 1 year 10,926 Akishige Okada(2) 2 years 0 Akira Chihaya(2) 1 year 1,000 (1) At Mitsui’s ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on June 24, 2004, an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation was resolved whereby the normal term of office for Directors has been changed from two years to one year. (2) Mr. Akishige Okada and Mr. Akira Chihaya are external directors as defined in the Commercial Code of Japan. 147 Table of Contents Length of Time Served in Office Date of Expiration of (From Appointment Shareholdings as of Current Term of Office to June 2005) June 30, 2005 Corporate Auditor: Tasuku Kondo June 2009 Less than 1 year 23,151 Hiroshi Matsuura June 2007 2 years 17,673 Ko Matsukata(3) June 2009 9 years 13,784 Yasutaka Okamura(3) June 2007 2 years 4,079 Hideharu Kadowaki(3) June 2008 1 year 2,276 (3) Mr. Ko Matsukata, Mr. Yasutaka Okamura and Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki are external Corporate Auditors as defined in the Law for Special Exceptions to the Commercial Code of Japan Concerning Audit, etc. of Joint Stock Corporations. 148 Table of Contents Length of Time Served in Office (From Appointment Shareholdings as of to June 2005)(4) June 30, 2005 Executive Officer (excluding Executive Officers who are also a Director): Yasuo Hayashi 5 years 21,621 Toshihiro Soejima 4 years 12,172 Motokazu Yoshida 4 years 10,396 Yoshiyuki Izawa 5 years 10,285 Osamu Mori 5 years 23,263 Satoru Miura 4 years 10,485 Masayoshi Sato 3 years 10,433 Ken Abe 3 years 19,319 Takao Sunami 3 years 9,966 Junichi Matsumoto 3 years 14,000 Shunichi Miyazaki 3 years 11,191 Hiroshi Ito 2 years 9,250 Takeshi Ohyama 3 years 10,775 Shinjiro Ogawa 3 years 10,939 Toshimasa Furukawa 3 years 11,260 Akio Ikeda 2 years 7,874 Jitsuro Terashima 2 years 17,987 Motonori Murakami 2 years 18,248 Kyoichi Endo 1 year 6,000 Toshio Awata 1 year 4,712 Koji Nakamura 1 year 8,009 Toru Kitamura 1 year 1,603 Kenichi Yamamoto 1 year 8,801 Masaaki Murakami 1 year 16,307 Kiyotaka Watanabe Less than 1 year 591 Masaaki Fujita Less than 1 year 591 Junichi Mizonoue Less than 1 year 591 Takao Omae Less than 1 year 7,030 Norinao Iio Less than 1 year 295 Osamu Koyama Less than 1 year 0 Total Shareholdings by Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers 561,969 (4) The rules of Executive Officers provides for the term of the Executive Officers as one year starting April 1 and ending March 31. Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provide that the Board of Directors shall elect from among its members Representative Directors, one of whom shall be the President. Under the Commercial Code of Japan, each of the Representative Directors has statutory authority and power to represent and act on behalf of the company in all respects. At least one of Corporate Auditors(5) should be a person who has not been a director, manager or employee of a company or any of its subsidiaries during the five-year period(6) prior to his or her election 149 Table of Contents as a Corporate Auditor. Each Corporate Auditor has a statutory duty to examine financial statements, in collaboration with independent certified public accountants, and business reports to be submitted by the Board of Directors at the general meeting of shareholders and also to supervise the administration of the company’s affairs by Directors. Corporate Auditors are required to participate in meetings of the Board of Directors but are not entitled to vote. Corporate Auditors constitute the Board of Corporate Auditors. The Board of Corporate Auditors has a statutory duty to prepare and submit its audit report to the Board of Directors each year. A Corporate Auditor may note his or her opinion in the audit report if his or her opinion is different from the opinion expressed in the independent auditors’ report. The Board of Corporate Auditors is empowered to establish audit principles, methods of examination by the Corporate Auditors of the company’s affairs and financial position and other matters concerning the performance of the Corporate Auditors’ duties. The Corporate Auditors may not at the same time be directors, managers or employees of the company or any of its subsidiaries or executive officers of any of its subsidiaries. (5) In accordance with amendments of the Law for Special Exceptions to the Commercial Code of Japan Concerning Audit, etc. of Joint Stock Corporations, the number of external corporate auditors after the conclusion of the first ordinary general meeting of shareholders held with respect to the fiscal year ending on and after May 1, 2005, is required to be at least half the number of corporate auditors of a large company whose capital is not less than ¥500 million, or whose total debt amount is not less than ¥20 billion. (6) In accordance with the same amendment as (4), an external corporate auditor who is elected at the first ordinary general meeting of shareholders held with respect to the fiscal year ended on and after May 1, 2005, is defined as any person who has not at any time been an employee, manager or director of the company or of any of its subsidiaries. Exemption from Certain Corporate Governance Requirements of NASDAQ. Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(a)(1) provides that a foreign private issuer may follow its home country practice in lieu of the requirements of Rule 4350, provided that such foreign private issuer discloses in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each requirement of Rule 4350 that it does not follow and describes the home country practice followed by the issuer in lieu of such requirements. Such requirements of Rule 4350 and the relevant home country practices we follow are described below: • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(b) requires that there be a distribution to shareholders of copies of our annual report containing our audited financial statements a reasonable period of time prior to our annual meeting of shareholders. In accordance with Japanese law, we hold an annual meeting of shareholders within three months after the end of each fiscal year. Also, in accordance with Japanese law, we distribute to shareholders, prior to the annual meeting of shareholders, copies of a report of business operations, together with our audited unconsolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP in Japanese. Concurrently with such distribution, we distribute Japanese GAAP audited unconsolidated financial statements in English to the depository for the ADSs, and instruct the depository to distribute the same to the registered ADS holders in a timely manner. The English version contains a statement that, upon request by an interested party, we will provide the party with a copy of our annual report on Form 20-F. As a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP for inclusion in our annual report on Form 20-F, which must be filed within six months after the end of each fiscal year. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(1) requires that a majority of the board of directors of each issuer be independent directors as defined in Rule 4200, and Rule 4350(c)(2) requires that independent directors of each issuer have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. For large Japanese companies, including us, which employ a corporate 150 Table of Contents governance system based on a board of corporate auditors, Japan’s company law has no independence requirement with respect to directors. The task of overseeing management and accounting firms is assigned to the corporate auditors, who are separate from the company’s management. Large Japanese companies, including us, are required to have at least one “outside” corporate auditor who must meet independence requirements under Japan’s company law. An outside corporate auditor is defined as a corporate auditor who has not served as a director, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries for the last five years prior to the appointment. Currently, we have three outside corporate auditors. Starting on the date of our ordinary meeting of shareholders relating to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, at least 50% of our corporate auditors will be required to be outside corporate auditors. Also, starting on the same date, the independence requirements for outside corporate auditors will be strengthened by extending the five-year period referred to above to any time prior to the appointment. Our Board of Corporate Auditors, which, as explained below, performs functions similar to those of an audit committee, has regularly scheduled meetings at which only corporate auditors are present. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2) requires that each issuer have and will continue to have an audit committee of at least three members, each of whom (1) is independent as defined under Rule 4200(a)(15), (2) meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (3) has not participated in the preparation of the financial statements of the issuer or any current subsidiary thereof at any time during the past three years, and (4) is able to read and understand fundamental financial statements, including a company’s balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement, as required by Rule 4350(d)(2). Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(1) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written audit committee charter specifying the items enumerated in that rule and that its audit committee have reviewed and reassessed the adequacy of the charter on an annual basis. Under Japanese law, we are not required to establish or maintain such an audit committee. Japan’s company law has no independence requirement with respect to directors of those “large” companies (defined under Japanese law as joint stock corporations with stated capital of ¥500 million or more or with total liabilities equal to or exceeding ¥20 billion), including Mitsui, that employ a corporate governance system based on a board of corporate auditors. In many such “large” companies, functions similar to those of such an audit committee are performed by its board of corporate auditors. We have established such a board of corporate auditors, each of whom does not concurrently serve as a director, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Under Japan’s company law, corporate auditors are elected at a general meeting of shareholders and are under a statutory duty to review the administration of the affairs of Mitsui by its directors and to examine financial statements and other documents and reports of Mitsui. Furthermore, large Japanese companies, including Mitsui, are required to have at least one “outside” corporate auditor who must meet additional independence requirements under Japan’s company law. Starting on the date of our ordinary meeting of shareholders relating to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, at least 50% of our corporate auditors will be required to be outside corporate auditors. An outside corporate auditor is currently defined as a corporate auditor who has not served as a director, manager or any other employee of the company or any of its subsidiaries for the last five years prior to the appointment. Starting on the date of our ordinary meeting of shareholders relating to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, the additional independence requirements for outside corporate auditors will be strengthened by extending the five-year period to any time prior to the appointment. Currently, we have five corporate auditors, three of whom are outside corporate auditors who meet these additional requirements. Mitsui’s board of corporate auditors has adopted its own regulations setting forth the scope of its responsibilities and the manner in which it carries out such responsibilities, and certain other matters. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(3) requires that compensation of the chief executive officer of each issuer be determined or recommended to its board of directors for determination either by (i) a majority of its independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors and that compensation of all other executive officers be determined or 151 Table of Contents recommended to the board of directors for determination either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. As explained above, we are not required to have independent directors. With regard to director compensation, Japan’s company law requires the board of directors to pass a board resolution proposing director compensation to be submitted for approval at a general shareholders’ meeting. Within the upper limit approved at the shareholders meeting, the board of directors may determine the amount of compensation for each director. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate such decision to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, the upper limit of compensation for its directors approved by the general shareholders’ meeting is 60 million yen per month and the board of directors has determined to delegate to the chief executive officer the decision-making authority as to the amount of compensation for each director within such limit. With regard to employee (including officer) compensation, the board of directors has the authority under Japan’s company law to determine matters relating to employee compensation. The board of directors, by resolution of the board of directors, may delegate employment compensation matters to the chief executive officer or other persons authorized by the board of directors. As for Mitsui, its board of directors duly resolved the Regulations for the Executive Officers, which provide that executive officers who are also directors of the Company shall not be paid any compensation in their capacities as executive officers and that the compensation of the executive officers who are not directors of the Company shall be decided by the board of directors, or decided by the chief executive officer or other officer authorized by the board of directors. Mitsui determines compensation of its chief executive officer and other officers in accordance with the aforementioned procedures. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to compensation of the chief executive officer and other executive officers under Japanese law. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the compensation of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general shareholders’ meeting and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4) requires that director nominees be selected or recommended for the board of directors’ selection either by (i) a majority of the independent directors or (ii) a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. Also, Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(4)(B) requires that each issuer have adopted a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process and such related matters as may be required under the U.S. federal securities laws. As explained above, We are not required to have independent directors. Under Japan’s company law, a director may be nominated by (i) a resolution of the board of directors or (ii) a shareholder owning one percent or more of the outstanding shares of a company. Approval by a majority of the shareholders in attendance at a general shareholders meeting is required to elect a director. There is no specific requirement that a company adopt a written charter or board resolution addressing the nominations process, nor is it customary to do so. Nominations of directors of Mitsui are conducted in accordance with the aforementioned procedures. Corporate auditors do not have any specific duties with respect to nomination of directors under Japanese law. However, the duties of corporate auditors include a general duty to audit the affairs of the company to ensure that the business is being operated in accordance with applicable law and its charter. If the corporate auditors conclude, in connection with the performance of those duties, that the nomination of directors violated applicable law or the company’s charter, the corporate auditors are required to report their conclusion to the general shareholders’ meeting and may bring a lawsuit against the responsible directors. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(f) requires that there be a provision in the by-laws for a quorum for any meeting of the holders of common stock and that such quorum be not less than 331/3% of the outstanding shares of the common voting stock. In accordance with the Commercial Code of Japan (the “Commercial Code”), however, under our Articles of Incorporation no quorum is 152 Table of Contents required for the adoption of resolutions at a general meeting of shareholders, except for (i) the election of directors and corporate auditors for which the quorum shall not be less than one-third of the total voting rights and (ii) resolutions for other specified issues required by the Commercial Code (the “special shareholders resolutions”), including an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, a reduction of stated capital, the removal of a director or corporate auditor, dissolution, merger or consolidation requiring shareholders resolution, the transfer of the whole or an important part of the business, the taking over of the whole of the business of any other corporation requiring shareholders resolution, share exchange or share transfer requiring shareholders resolution for the purpose of establishing 100% parent-subsidiary relationships, splitting of the corporation into two or more corporations requiring shareholders’ resolution, any offering of new shares at a “specially favorable” price (or any offering of the rights to subscribe for, or acquire its shares at a “specially favorable” conditions) to any persons other than shareholders, for which the quorum shall be at least one-third of the total voting rights and the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting rights represented at the meeting is required. This approach is consistent with generally accepted business practices of publicly-held companies in Japan. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(g) provides that each issuer solicit proxies and provide proxy statements for all meetings of shareholders and provide copies of such proxy solicitation to Nasdaq. Currently a Japanese company whose shares are listed on the securities exchanges defined in the Securities and Exchange Law, including us, may, but is not required to, solicit proxies for meetings of shareholders. If such a Japanese company solicits proxies for a meeting of shareholders, it is required to provide proxy statements and documents for reference as provided for in the Securities and Exchange Law and provide copies of such proxy statements and documents for reference to the Kanto Local Finance Bureau. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(h) provides that each issuer conduct appropriate review of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis and that all such transactions be approved by the issuer’s audit committee or another independent body of the board of directors. Following the requirements of the Commercial Code of Japan, we require a Director to obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in order for such Director to enter into such transactions. • Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1) requires that shareholder approval be obtained for the issuance of the issuer’s stock in certain conditions or certain specified transactions described therein. The Commercial Code requires us to seek shareholder approval of various matters, and in certain instances the special shareholders resolutions as described above are required for approval. In addition, while the Commercial Code permits, in certain instances, the issuance of equity securities without shareholder approval, the Commercial Code also contains provisions requiring the timely dissemination of information relating to such issuance, allowing for opportunities for shareholders to voice their concern with such issuance, and mandating the election of statutory auditors whose fiduciary duty is to, among other things, oversee on behalf of the shareholders actions by the board of directors relating to such issuance. The rights of ADS holders, including their rights relating to corporate governance practices, are provided in the deposit agreement. Limitation of Liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui provide that Mitsui may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, limit the liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors to the extent as permitted by Japanese laws. The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui also provide that Mitsui may conclude a contract with external Directors to limit the liability of such Directors to the extent as permitted by Japanese laws. In accordance with such provision of the Articles of Incorporation, Mitsui has concluded with Mr. Akishige Okada, an external Director, a contract dated June 27, 2003 and has also concluded with Mr. Akira 153 Table of Contents Chihaya, an external Director, a contract dated June 24, 2004, to limit their liability to the extent permitted by Japanese laws. D. Employees. As of March 31, 2005, we had 38,210 employees. The average number of temporary employees during the year ended March 31, 2005 was 10,367. The following table provides the number of employees by operating segment as of the year ended March 31, 2005. Operating Segment: Metal Machinery, Consumer Logistics & Other Products & Electronics & Products & Financial Overseas All Year Ended March 31, Minerals Information Chemical Energy Services Markets Americas Europe Areas Other Total 2005 4,517 9,510 3,903 1,620 8,458 1,179 2,677 1,062 2,997 2,287 38,210 As of March 31, 2004 and 2003, we had 39,735 and 37,734 employees, respectively. Effective April 1, 2004, the domestic branches and offices, which had been separated operating units until the year ended March 31, 2004, were integrated into related business units based on the categories of their products and services. Accordingly, “Domestic Branches and Offices” was abolished and the components of the reportable segment were transferred to each product-focused operating segment in the Head Office. See Note 17, “Segment Information,” to our consolidated financial statements. The number of employees as of March 31, 2004 and 2003 are provided below. Restatement of the figure of employees at Domestic Branch and Offices as of March 31, 2004 and 2003 to conform to the current year presentation is not practicable. Operating Segment: Domestic Metal Machinery, Consumer Branches Other Products & Electronics & Products & and Overseas All Year Ended March 31, Minerals Information Chemical Energy Services Offices Americas Europe Areas Other Total 2004 4,065 7,243 3,581 1,466 10,809 2,736 2,612 1,098 3,138 2,987 39,735 2003 4,033 6,565 3,075 1,303 9,796 2,945 2,637 1,173 3,182 3,025 37,734 We consider relations between management and our labor unions to be good. E. Share Ownership. Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers As of June 30, 2005, the members of Mitsui’s Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers held as a group, 561,969 shares of our common stock, representing 0.04% of the shares outstanding. This number of shares included 56,509 shares held by Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. None of Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors nor Executive Officers is the beneficial owner of more than 1% of Mitsui’s common stock. The number of shares held by Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers, on an individual basis, is provided in “Item 6.C. Board Practices,” and is incorporated herein by reference. Employees Shareholding Association Mitsui operates an Employees’ Shareholding Association which, as of June 30, 2005, had 3,286 employee member participants. Employee members declare monthly the amount to be deducted from their salary to be used to purchase shares of common stock of Mitsui through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee 154 Table of Contents members receive from Mitsui a monthly subsidy equivalent to 10% of the declared amount, enabling them to purchase shares equivalent to 110% of the declared amount. Employee members are entitled to dividends which are applied towards the purchase of additional shares through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members are able to sell part of their shares that have been reserved for them under the Employees’ Shareholding Association’s plan, in multiples of 1,000 shares, once every month. As of June 30, 2005, the total amount of shares having voting rights owned by the Employees’ Shareholding Association was 12,981,901, representing 0.82% of the total shares issued and outstanding. Mitsui does not have any other arrangements for involving its employees in the capital of Mitsui, including any arrangement that involves the issue or grant of options, shares or securities of Mitsui. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions. A. Major Shareholders. As of March 31, 2005, there were 1,583,687,322 shares of our common stock issued (including 1,476,692 shares of treasury stock), of which 7,359,040 shares were in the form of ADSs, representing 0.46% of our then outstanding common stock, and 166,875,559 shares, representing 10.54% of our then outstanding common stock, were held of record in the form of common stock by residents in the United States. The number of registered ADS holders was 42, and the number of registered holders of shares of common stock in the United States was 135. The following table shows our major shareholders as of March 31, 2005, including shareholders who owned less than 5% of our then outstanding common stock, disclosed under the Security and Exchange Law of Japan. Thousands of Shares of Common Percentage of Common Shareholders Stock Owned Stock Issued(*) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 170,138 10.74 % Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 124,071 7.83 Mitsui Mutual Life Insurance Co. 51,033 3.22 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 40,500 2.55 The Chuo Mitsui Trust and Banking Company, Limited 37,410 2.36 State Street Bank and Trust Company 36,311 2.29 Nippon Life Insurance Co. 35,070 2.21 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. 33,083 2.08 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. 30,375 1.91 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. 24,726 1.56 (*) The figures are rounded down to two decimal places. Under the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan, any person that becomes a holder (together with its related persons) of 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company listed on any Japanese stock exchange (including ADSs representing such shares) must file a report with the Director of the relevant Local Finance Bureau and send a copy of such report to the company. A similar report must also be filed if the percentage holding of a holder of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company increases or decreases by 1% or more. 155 Table of Contents Based on such reports we have received, we are aware that each of the following persons, together with its affiliates, was the beneficial owner of our common stock in the amounts and as of the dates shown in the following tables: Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Ltd. Thousands of Shares of Percentage of Common Ownership as of Common Stock Owned Stock Issued March 31, 2004 146,045,454 9.22 % September 30, 2004 132,175,833 8.35 March 31, 2005 105,825,213 6.68 Mitsui Asset Trust Banking Company, Limited Thousands of Shares of Percentage of Common Common Stock Owned Stock Issued Ownership as of November 30, 2003 87,912,465 5.55 % February 22, 2005 70,694,710 4.46 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. Thousands of Shares of Percentage of Common Common Stock Owned Stock Issued Ownership as of April 30, 2003 76,810,314 4.84 % Deutsche Bank AG Thousands of Shares of Percentage of Common Common Stock Owned Stock Issued Ownership as of March 31, 2004 81,768,610 5.16 % May 31, 2004 34,271,518 2.16 The voting rights of our major shareholders do not differ from the voting rights of other shareholders. To our knowledge, we are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any other corporations, by any foreign government or by any other natural or legal persons severally or jointly. We know of no arrangements which may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of Mitsui. B. Related Party Transactions. In conducting our business operations involving a broad range of products throughout the world, we have, in the ordinary course of business, formed alliances with leading partner companies in Japan and overseas, including manufacturers and companies in the field of natural resources, such as energy and ferrous materials. Moreover, in the ordinary course of business, from time to time, we make minority investments in, or provide loans to, amongst others, our customers, manufacturers, alliance partners, distributors or suppliers. We conduct our global business operations on a continuing basis with such associated companies (investees owned 20% to 50%, corporate joint ventures, other investees over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence, noncontrolling investments in general partnerships, limited partnerships and limited liability companies). Our principal associated companies include Valepar S.A. (18.24%), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (50.00%), Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. 156 Table of Contents (44.34%), IPM Eagle LLP (30.00%), Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (28.91%), Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (25.00%) and United Auto Group, Inc. (15.53%), among others. The following table shows information regarding account balances and transactions with associated companies: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2005 2004 Accounts receivable, trade ¥197 ¥186 Advances to associated companies 93 115 Accounts payable, trade 95 76 Dividends received from associated companies for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 amounted to ¥33 billion, ¥19 billion and ¥13 billion, respectively. See Note 6, “INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES,” to our consolidated financial statements. Prices applied in transactions with associated companies are computed in the same way that such prices would be calculated in transactions with unrelated third parties. In addition, when associated companies are counterparties in transactions with us and we conduct such business under long-term procurement and/or sales contracts, in general, we conclude a corresponding sales contract with the purchasers (unrelated parties) of goods procured by us and/or with suppliers (unrelated parties) of the goods we sell to associated companies. Regarding any other commitments related to transactions with associated companies, we do not normally assume risk in excess of its percentage of share ownership in an associated company. In furtherance of their trading activities, it is customary practice for us to loan or guarantee, severally and jointly with others, indebtedness of certain customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. At March 31, 2005, the aggregate amount of loans (including ¥58 billion guarantees) relating to associated companies was ¥129 billion. The largest amount outstanding as of March 31, 2005 was ¥30 billion loan with no interest to P.T. Paiton Energy Co., which owns and operates a coal-fired power plant in East Java, Indonesia. The loan was mainly from Paiton Power Financing B.V., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsui engaged in the financing for P.T. Paiton Energy Co. Other major loans to associated companies are related to power plant projects and projects of developments of natural resources jointly invested with other partners. In the ordinary course of our business, we have entered into transactions with various organizations with which certain of the our Directors and Senior Management are associated, but no material transactions have been entered into for the three-year period ended March 31, 2005. As of March 31, 2005, no person was the beneficial owner of more than 10% of our common stock. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel. Not applicable. Item 8. Financial Information. A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information. Consolidated Financial Statements The audited consolidated financial statements required by this item are included elsewhere in this annual report. 157 Table of Contents Export Sales The total amount of revenues from export transactions for the year ended March 31, 2005 was ¥258 billion or 7% of total revenue of ¥3,526 billion. Legal Proceedings Antitrust Suits against Mitsui, Mitsui U.S.A. and Novus International Mitsui and two of its subsidiaries, together with other third-party methionine manufacturers, were named as defendants in class action lawsuits in the United States, filed by direct and indirect customers of methionine. In these cases, manufacturers of methionine allegedly violated federal and/or state antitrust laws by conspiring to fix the prices of methionine. The lawsuits sought compensatory and treble damages in unspecified amounts. In May 2002, Mitsui and the subsidiaries reached an agreement for settlement with the class action plaintiffs constituted by direct customers. Under this settlement, Novus International, Inc., Mitsui’s 65%-owned subsidiary, paid U.S.$37.8 million as a settlement amount. In November 2002, Mitsui and the subsidiaries reached an agreement for settlement with the plaintiffs who opted out of that class action. Under this settlement, Novus International, Inc. paid U.S.$58.2 million as a settlement amount. This did not affect our consolidated results of operations for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, since Novus International, Inc. had previously recorded an estimated provision for the full settlement amount. Other related lawsuits are still pending, but the management believes that there is less than a reasonable possibility that the pending lawsuits would materially affect our consolidated results of operations. Antitrust Suits against Mitsui, Mitsui U.S.A. and Bioproducts Our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary, Bioproducts, Inc., which was producing and selling choline chloride, an ingredient of animal feed and pet foods, was named as a defendant in the lawsuits in the United States, together with other third-party choline chloride manufacturers. In these cases, manufacturers of choline chloride allegedly violated U.S. antitrust laws. Although Mitsui and its wholly owned U.S. subsidiary, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. (“Mitsui U.S.A.”), were neither a manufacturer nor a seller of choline chloride in the U.S. market, Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. were also named as defendants in a class action lawsuits based on the plaintiffs’ allegation that Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. were involved in the violation of the antitrust laws. During the course of the legal proceedings, Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. have consistently denied any wrongdoing. However, in the trial before the Federal District Court of the District of Columbia in June 2003, the jury rendered a verdict stating that the defendants participated in the violation of the antitrust laws. Mitsui and Mitsui U.S.A. considered undertaking the legal proceedings necessary to overrule the verdict, but given the circumstances, it was determined that a settlement with the class action plaintiffs would be in the best interest of Mitsui and all of its stakeholders, and entered into an agreement for settlement with the class action plaintiffs by paying U.S.$53.0 million as a settlement amount. The settlement was subject to court approval, which was obtained on April 27, 2005. This amount is recorded as other expense — net in the Statements of Consolidated Income for the year ended March 31, 2004. Mitsui, Mitsui U.S.A. and Bioproducts, Inc. were also named as defendants in other lawsuits made by the plaintiffs who opted out of that class action, but entered into an agreement for settlement with most of the plaintiffs in February 2004. Under this settlement, Mitsui, Mitsui U.S.A. and Bioproducts, Inc. were released from the legal proceedings by paying the opt-out plaintiffs U.S.$73.5 million as a settlement amount. This amount was paid in February 2004 and was recorded as other expense — net in the Statements of Consolidated Income for the year ended March 31, 2004. 158 Table of Contents For other related lawsuits that are still pending, although there can be no assurance of the ultimate results, management believes that there is less than a reasonable possibility that losses in addition to amounts that have been reserved for possible litigation losses will occur, and that the amount of any such additional losses would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other Matters Various other claims and legal actions are pending against us in respect of contractual obligations and other matters arising out of the conduct of our business. Appropriate provision has been recorded for the estimated loss on claims and legal actions including those mentioned above. In the opinion of management, any additional liability will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Dividend Policy Under our Medium-Term Strategic & Financial Plan that we announced on May 19, 2004, which runs thorough March 31, 2006, we have set the target dividend payout ratio at 20% of consolidated net income, and by growing profits at Mitsui will aim to progressively and sustainably increase dividend payments. Such payments will, however, be subject to our future earnings, financial condition, approval at the shareholders’ meeting (in the case of year-end dividends) and other factors, including statutory and other restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends. B. Significant Changes. Except as disclosed in this annual report, there has not been any significant change since the date of the latest annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Item 9. The Offer and Listing. A. Offer and Listing Details. The primary market for our common stock is the Tokyo Stock Exchange, or TSE. Our common stock is traded on the First Section of the TSE and is also listed on four other stock exchanges in Japan (Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka and Sapporo Stock Exchanges). Our ADSs, each representing 20 shares of common stock, are traded on the National Market of NASDAQ under the symbol MITSY. ADRs, each evidencing one or more ADSs, were originally issued pursuant to a Deposit Agreement in May 1963, as amended from time to time, that we entered into with Citibank N.A. of New York as Depositary and the holders of the ADRs. Our common stock was listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, in the form of European Depositary Shares, each representing 20 shares; on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, in the form of co-ownership shares, each representing 1 share, in Global Bearer Certificates; and on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. However, by reason that trading volume had been extremely low, we applied to each stock exchange for delisting our common stock and each application was approved with the following effective date of delisting: Name of Stock Exchange Effective Date of Delisting The Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange February 28, 2005 The Frankfurt Stock Exchange May 2, 2005 The Luxembourg Stock Exchange September 26, 2005 159 Table of Contents The following table provides for the periods indicated the reported high and low closing sales prices of our common stock on the TSE and the reported high and low closing bid price quotations per ADS on the National Market of NASDAQ: TSE NASDAQ Price per Share of Common Price per ADS Stock (Yen) (U.S. dollars)(1) High Low High Low Year ended March 31: 2001 ¥ 851 ¥ 605 $ 161.50 $ 98.00 2002 926 575 152.13 91.00 2003 910 531 146.75 89.40 2004 946 541 181.50 90.90 2005 1,074 773 206.20 137.50 Year ended March 31, 2004: First quarter ¥ 629 ¥ 541 $ 106.59 $ 90.90 Second quarter 800 620 140.50 106.76 Third quarter 903 727 162.77 136.00 Fourth quarter 946 770 181.50 150.80 Year ended March 31, 2005: First quarter ¥ 1,010 ¥ 773 $ 191.11 $ 137.50 Second quarter 946 801 172.00 144.45 Third quarter 994 841 182.00 163.98 Fourth quarter 1,074 910 206.20 176.94 Year ending March 31, 2006: First quarter ¥ 1,050 ¥ 908 $ 192.44 $ 171.50 Month of: March 2005 ¥ 1,074 ¥ 975 $ 206.20 $ 181.75 April 2005 1,023 923 188.95 174.51 May 2005 995 908 189.89 171.50 June 2005 1,050 981 192.44 180.09 July 2005 1,084 1,015 193.00 182.53 August 2005 1,188 1,057 218.00 185.52 (1) All fractional figures of the prices per ADS are rounded to the nearest two decimal points. Share prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges set daily price limits, which limit the maximum range of fluctuation within a single trading day. Daily price limits are set according to the previous day’s closing price or special quote. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. On September 16, 2005, the closing sales price per share of our common stock on the TSE was ¥1,226, and the closing sales price per ADS on the National Market of NASDAQ was U.S.$222.00. 160 Table of Contents B. Plan of Distribution. Not applicable. C. Markets. See “Item 9.A. Offer and Listing Details.” D. Selling Shareholders. Not applicable. E. Dilution. Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue. Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information. A. Share Capital. Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association. General Set forth below is information relating to the organization and common stock of Mitsui, including brief summaries of the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations adopted by Mitsui’s Board of Directors, as currently in effect, and of the Commercial Code and related legislation. A law to modernize and make overall amendments to the Commercial Code was promulgated on July 26, 2005. As a result of such amendments, the provisions governing joint stock corporations under the Commercial Code will be embodied in a new company law (the “New Company Law”). The New Company Law will come into effect within one and a half years after its promulgation, and it is currently expected that the New Company Law and other related laws and regulations will take effect in the spring of 2006. Organization Mitsui is a corporation ( kabushiki kaisha ) incorporated in Japan under the Commercial Code of Japan (the “Commercial Code”). It is registered in the Commercial Register ( shogyo tokibo ) maintained by the Tokyo Legal Affairs Bureau and several other registry offices of the Ministry of Justice. Objects and Purposes Article 2 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that our objects are to engage in the following business: 1. Foreign trading business, purchasing and selling business, wholesaling business, agency business and brokerage business, relating to the following commodities: (1) Ferrous and non-ferrous metals and their raw materials and manufactured goods, and minerals. (2) Coal, petroleum, natural gas and other fuels and their by-products. 161 Table of Contents (3) All kinds of machines and appliances (including measuring instruments and medical apparatus), equipment including manufacturing equipment, communications equipment and antipollution equipment, rolling stock and vehicles, ships and boats, aerospace equipment and aircraft, and parts for the foregoing. (4) All kinds of chemical products, salt, fertilizers, high-pressure gas, explosives, pharmaceuticals (including medicines, non-medicinal drugs, medicine for veterinary use, narcotics, powerful poison and poison), radio isotope, toilet preparations and their raw materials. (5) Cereals, sugar, oils and fats, feeds and their raw materials; livestocks, agricultural, dairy and marine products, processed foods, alcoholic beverage and other foodstuffs and drinks. (6) All kinds of textile products and their raw materials. (7) All kinds of fur products and raw fur. (8) Lumber, cement, other building materials and housing related equipment. (9) Rubber, pulp, paper and their manufactured goods; tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and sundry goods. (10) Industrial water and drinking water. 2. Exploration, development, manufacturing, processing, scrapping and recycling business relating to the above-mentioned commodities. 3. Acquisition, planning, preservation, utilization and disposition of copyrights, patent rights, other intellectual property rights, know-how, system technology, and other software and acting as intermediary in such transactions. 