Risk Factors.” With respect to oil and gas exploration, development and production (“E&P”) business, it is important to maintain or increase oil and gas reserves as is the case for major oil and gas companies, and Mitsui’s Energy Segment is also aiming for increasing its reserves by expanding current projects and investing to new opportunities. Although our reserve is less than those of major oil and gas companies in the world, its volume can be ranked as a top level company among the Japanese oil and gas companies. 39 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on our investments in coal resource projects undertaken by the Energy Segment. COAL Joint Venture or Investee Mitsui’s Subsidiary orAssociated Company Name of Mines(1) Location Mitsui’sPercentage ofOwnership Other MajorParticipants andTheir Percentages ofOwnership BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Poitrel South Walker Creek Queensland, Australia 20.00 % BHP Billiton 80.00 % Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Bengalla New South Wales, Australia 10.00 % Rio Tinto Wesfarmers Taiwan Power 40.00 40.00 10.00 % % % Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Kestrel Queensland, Australia 20.00 % Rio Tinto 80.00 % Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Dawson Queensland, Australia 49.00 % Anglo American 51.00 % German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. German Creek Queensland, Australia 30.00 % Anglo American 70.00 % (1) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (2) In addition to the above-mentioned coal mining projects, through Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd., we have small interests in two projects in Australia operated by Anglo American, namely, Moranbah North Joint Venture in Queensland and Drayton Joint Venture in New South Wales. Our ownership percentage and annual production capacity of Moranbah North Joint Venture and Drayton Joint Venture are 4.75%, 4 million tons and 3.83%, 5 million tons, respectively. Currently the above mentioned joint ventures are forced to experience production adjustments due to recession of the world economy as well as reductions in crude steel production by steel manufacturers. On the other hand, in the medium and long term, demands of both thermal coal and metallurgical coal are expected to increase along with economic growth of Asian countries including India and China. In response to such increasing global demand, we continue to make proactive capital investments to expand the capacities of the existing projects, and our equity production tonnage is expected to be increasing after this fiscal year onward. Regarding further information and discussion on development of our coal mining projects, see “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company—Capital Expenditure”, “Item 5.A. Operating Results—Operating Results by Operating Segment—Energy Segment” and “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Investment Plans and Financial Policies of the Medium Term Management Outlook.” Revenues from oil and gas producing activities and coal mining activities (based on US GAAP) account for a critical portion of this segment. The table below sets forth the break down of revenues of the Energy Segment. Revenues Billions of Yen Revenues from Sales of Products Revenues fromSales of Servicesand Other Sales Total Revenues Years Ended March 31, Revenues fromOil and GasProducingActivities Revenues fromCoal MiningActivities Revenues fromSales ofOther Products(*) Commissions andTrading Margins onIntermediary Servicesand Other 2009 ¥ 288.9 ¥ 123.0 ¥ 778.3 ¥ 19.6 ¥ 1,209.8 2008 248.7 34.3 986.2 14.6 1,283.8 2007 99.1 27.9 941.6 1.9 1,070.5 (*) Revenues from sales of other products mainly consist of sales of crude oil and petroleum products. The Energy Segment is also participating in uranium development to contribute to its stable supply for nuclear power facilities. In October 2008, Mitsui acquired a 49% interest in six uranium blocks including 40 Table of Contents Honeymoon mine in South Australia, from Uranium One Inc. (Canada). Honeymoon mine is in its development stage and aiming for production commencement from 2010. Annual production is planned to reach 400 tons on a uranium concentrate basis. Blocks other than Honeymoon are planned to execute exploration activities and seek for commercialization. The Energy Segment is engaged in oil trading operations conducted by Mitsui and Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Limited (Hong Kong, China). This segment has a 20% minority share in Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States). The international markets for crude oil and petroleum products are highly competitive and volatile. These commodities are listed and traded on various markets such as NYMEX in New York, ICE in London, SIMEX in Singapore and TOCOM in Tokyo, and our competitors in these markets are major oil and gas companies, the national oil companies of oil producing countries, oil traders including Japanese trading companies. In maintaining our competitive edge under these circumstances, it is critical for this segment to maintain good relationships with customers and suppliers as well as to mitigate price risks by utilizing hedging tools such as the futures markets. This segment is active in seeking to secure long-term offtake contracts of petroleum products such as fuel oil and condensate to be sold to worldwide companies including Japanese utility and refining companies. Long-term offtake contracts are sales and purchase contracts for various commodities, such as crude oil and petroleum products, entered into by suppliers and buyers, or “offtakers”, of such commodities for more than one year. Concurrent with the offtake contracts, the sellers of such commodities usually enter into financing arrangements whereby the sales proceeds from such commodities are used for repayment. Within Japan, this segment is also engaged in refining and sales of oil and gas related products through Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan), our oil sales subsidiary, and Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (Japan). Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. is a refinery jointly owned (50:50) by the ExxonMobil Corp. Group and Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. In the domestic refining and marketing business for oil and gas related products, this segment has faced severe competition from domestic oil refining and distributing companies due to the structural surplus situation for refining capacity in Japan. Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. and Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. are in relatively sound financial situations owing to the extensive restructuring of inefficient assets and work force, and are pursuing efficient and competitive operations. In the LPG gas business, Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) merged with Marubeni Liquefied Gas, Inc. in April 2008 to form Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Mitsui’s ownership interest in the new company is 60%. It concentrates on improvement in operational efficiency and selling capacity by consolidating whole procedures of domestic LPG distribution from importing to retail. This segment is also exploring various new business opportunities in the emerging new energy area. Mitsui expects bio-ethanol to be a significant renewable fuel in the future, and world demand to rise. In view of this, Mitsui are jointly working with Petróleo Brasileiro SA (“Petrobras”) for production of bio-ethanol and related products in Brazil, and marketing such products in the international market. Foods & Retail Segment The Foods & Retail Segment consists of one business unit, the Foods & Retail Business Unit, which has 25 subsidiaries including Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan), PRI Foods Co., Ltd. (Japan), San-ei Sucrochemical Co., Ltd. (Japan), MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), Toho Bussan Kaisha, Ltd. (Japan), VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. (Japan), WILSEY FOODS, INC. (United States), Mitsui Alimentos Ltda. (Brazil) and MCM FOODS B.V. (Netherlands) ; and 17 associated companies including MIKUNI COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., LTD. (Japan), Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Japan), The Kumphawapi Sugar Co., Ltd. (Thailand) and Multigrain AG (Switzerland). Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥82.4 billion or 8.1% and ¥1.5 billion or 0.8% of our consolidated totals, respectively. 41 Table of Contents The Foods & Retail Segment engages in: • Import and domestic/offshore trade of wheat, barley, soybeans, corn, rapeseed, raw sugar, rice; • Import and domestic/offshore trade of processed foods such as canned products, frozen foods and condiments, liquor, beverages such as coffee, tea and juice, dairy products, foodstuffs such as marine products, stock farm products and vegetables; • Manufacture of beverages and beverage ingredients, sugar manufacturing and broiler chicken raising business in Japan; • Investment in the food raw material production and distribution businesses abroad such as production and export of grain, dairy farming, canola oil processing, shrimp farming, broiler chicken raising, egg producing and sugar manufacturing businesses abroad; • Domestic distribution and sales through the nationwide wholesaler subsidiary MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan); • Import and domestic trade of containers, packaging materials, and miscellaneous daily goods; and • Support services, such as supply chain management including logistics management, and product planning and development for retailers. The Foods & Retail Segment is involved in a wide range of fields in a value chain of foods, from the global procurement of food material and production of foodstuffs to the traffic and wholesale of foods, packaging materials and sundry goods. To secure a stable supply source, this segment purchases grain, oilseeds, and raw sugar from the United States, Canada, Brazil, Australia, Thailand and China and sell them in Japan and other Asian countries. This segment sells coffee to Japan and United States, mainly from Brazil. This segment purchases raw materials for beverages, such as tea leaves and juice, marine products, stock farm products, and dairy products from major supply sources around the world and deliver them primarily to Japan. This segment is also engaged in domestic broiler chicken raising, processing, and sales through the subsidiary PRIFOODS CO., LTD. (Japan), This segment has positioned the Americas as their main base of operations and the core of their global food supply strategy. In collaboration with the Americas Segment, this segment has developed and maintained the following businesses: • In the cereals and grains area, this segment has formed a joint venture, United Harvest, LLC (United States), with CHS Inc., an agricultural cooperative-based company in the United States. United Harvest, LLC is the largest exporter of wheat from the United States. This segment invested in this company through United Grain Corp. (United States). • VENTURA FOODS, LLC, another joint venture formed with CHS Inc., is one of the largest suppliers of edible oil for the institutional market in the United States. This segment invested in this company through WILSEY FOODS, INC. (United States). • In August and November 2007, this segment purchased shares in Multigrain AG (Switzerland), parent company of Multigrain S.A. in Brazil, an agricultural business operating company dealing with origination and export of grains, mainly soybeans. In October 2008, this segment made an additional investment of US$124 million, which was a part of the total capital increase made by Multigrain AG in response to capital needs resulting from an expansion of Multigrain S.A’s agricultural business. The total investment amounts to US$210 million. CHS is also a partner in this business and has the same largest ownership interest of 39.4% as Mitsui’s. • In December 2007, this segment, together with the Americas Segment, agreed to establish a joint venture of canola oil processing business in Canada with Louis Dreyfus Group. Ownership interests of this segment and the Americas Segment are 28% and 12%, respectively. Currently the canola oil processing facilities is under construction aiming to start-up of the commercial production in autumn, 2009. 42 Table of Contents In the period from 2007 through 2009, this segment made several investments in food production abroad, such as the above-mentioned agricultural business in Brazil and canola oil processing facilities in Canada, a dairy farming business in New Zealand and a shrimp farming business and broiler chicken raising and egg producing businesses in China. This segment aims to secure safe and stable supply sources of food, considering rapidly increasing food demand from emerging countries and conflict in supply capacity for bio-fuel purpose production. This segment intends to expand market channels to Japan and Asia, starting from the above-mentioned joint operations with the most reliable partners in major food material producing countries. In food-manufacturing operations, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) is engaged in beverage business as one of the major manufacturers of tea leaves in Japan. This segment put Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. as a core of beverage business. In overseas wholesale operations, MCM Foods B.V. (Netherlands) engages in the import and sales of canned food products and groceries in England and other European market. Competition varies depending on raw materials and products in the upstream areas of grain, feed, raw sugar and food materials, but is primarily based on price and quality of products. Many Japanese trading companies, international producers and others are competitors to varying degrees with respect to food raw materials this segment handles. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) plays a vital role in this segment’s wholesale operations. Its wide-range business activities and customers include general merchandise stores, supermarkets, convenience stores, and catering and restaurant chains throughout Japan, focusing on processed food and liquor transactions. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. meets the sophisticated and diversified needs for reduced distribution costs, secure temperature-controlled supply, and faster delivery. In April 2006, MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui agreed with KOKUBU CO., LTD. (“KOKUBU”), a major Japanese food wholesaler, to form a business alliance, which includes cooperation in product categories to be reinforced by both companies. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD has been planning and implementing the management improvement plan centering on restructuring of unprofitable businesses and streamlining of distribution. In October 2007, this segment transferred 70% of the shares of Hokushuren Co., Ltd. (Japan), formerly a foods and liquor wholesale subsidiary, to KOKUBU, following transfer of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.’s business in the Hokkaido area (excluding Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.-related businesses) to Hokushuren Co., Ltd. In January 2009, Hokushuren Co., Ltd. and HOKKAIDO KOKUBU CO., LTD., KOKUBU’s wholly owned subsidiary, merged to form SHUREN KOKUBU CO., LTD., in which this segment holds a 26.3% ownership interest as a result of the merger. Mitsui maintains a comprehensive alliance with Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan’s nationwide diversified retailer, which mainly engages in convenience stores, general supermarkets, department stores, food supermarkets, food services, financial services and IT services. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. maintains operation through Seven-Eleven Beijing Co., Ltd. in China and 7-Eleven, Inc. in the United States. Mitsui offers the following supply services to Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. through the domestic subsidiaries, such as MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD., Retail System Service Co., Ltd. (Japan) and VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. (Japan), Bussan Logistics Solutions Co., Ltd. (Japan). • supply sundry goods and consumables, such as processed food, liquor, fast food, toys, and games, to more than twelve thousand 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply food materials, containers, and packaging materials to vendors who supply boxed lunches, pre-cooked meals, and processed food to 7-Eleven stores in Japan; • supply various products to 7-Eleven stores in Japan by temperature-controlled transportation; and • provide services to 7-Eleven stores through the subsidiaries, BUSSAN BEIJING LOGISTICS ENTERPRISE LTD. in China and MITSUI BUSSAN LOGISTICS, INC. in the United States. As of the end of February 2009, Mitsui owned 1.8% of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.’s outstanding shares. Mitsui purchased the shares for a total cost of ¥50 billion in 2005, seeking to strengthen business ties with them. 43 Table of Contents Competitors in the wholesale and retail businesses are mainly general trading companies and wholesalers in Japan. In the traffic area, competitors are also traffic companies that operate third party logistics providing customized and integrated warehousing and transportation services. Domestic wholesalers are facing fierce competition with others, and from time to time they conduct mergers and acquisitions to increase revenues and reduce logistics costs. Consumer Service & IT Segment This segment is comprised of the First Consumer Service Business Unit; the Second Consumer Service Business Unit; and the IT Business Unit. Effective April 2009, the Consumer Service Business Unit was established through reorganizing the First and the Second Consumer Service Business Units. Media-related business was transferred from the First Consumer Service Business Unit to the IT Business Unit. Gross profit and net loss for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥73.7 billion or 7.3% and minus ¥31.4 billion or minus 17.7% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment owns 29 subsidiaries including: • Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (Japan) in the First Consumer Service Business Unit; • BUSSAN REAL ESTATE CO., LTD. (Japan) and Mitsui Bussan Woodchip Oceania Pty. Ltd. (Australia) in the Second Consumer Service Business Unit; and • Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan), J-SCube Inc. (Japan), Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan) and MBK Distribuidora de Produtos Eletronicos Ltda. (Brazil) in the IT Business Unit. And it has 33 associated companies including: • QVC JAPAN INC. (Japan) and AIM SERVICES CO., LTD. (Japan) in the First Consumer Service Business Unit; • Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Second Consumer Service Business Unit; and • Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) and T-GAIA Corporation (Japan) in the IT Business Unit. First Consumer Service Business Unit Together with 11 subsidiaries and 17 associated companies, the First Consumer Service Business Unit is engaged in the followings: • media-related business including broadcasting, content service, television shopping channels and internet-based marketing service; • service and outsourcing businesses including contract food service, uniform rental, facility management, and temporary personnel service; • medical and health care-related businesses including supporting for operation and management of hospitals and clinics, supporting pharmaceutical manufacturing and logistic, senior living service including housing, facility and nursing care services and medical-related information service; • fashion business including global procurement service of apparel and accessories, participation and management of joint ventures with fashion brand holders, and other brand related business including importing, licensing and marketing; and • consumer goods including beauty and health-related products and interior and living items. 44 Table of Contents In the media-related business, as a consumer service and content provider, this business unit provides television shopping services operated by an associated company, QVC Japan, Inc. (Japan), which was established jointly with QVC Inc. of the United States. In March 2009, this business unit acquired Taiwan’s third largest provider of 24-hour television shopping. BS digital high definition free television channel subsidiary, World Hi-Vision Channel, Inc. started broadcasting service under the name of BS channel 12 “TwellV” in Japan in December 2007. This business unit is engaged in development of business opportunities by accessing from broadcasting business to Internet and mobile-related businesses. In the service and outsourcing businesses, as joint businesses with ARAMARK Corporation in the United States, AIM SERVICES CO., LTD. (Japan) provides a variety of services, such as contract food service, refreshment service and related support services for companies, schools, hospitals and social welfare facilities, while ARAMARK Uniform Japan Co., Ltd. (Japan) provides uniform rental services. This business unit acquired 5% of the outstanding shares in Recruit Co., Ltd. for ¥27 billion in February 2007 and entered into a business collaboration agreement with Recruit Co., Ltd. under the agreement both have developed new business opportunities such as senior-care, and other medical related information services. This business unit positions medical and healthcare business as a business domain subject to company wide intensification, and integrated the whole medical and pharmaceutical businesses within this business unit in 2008. This business unit handles support for operation and management of medical facilities in healthcare service area, support for manufacturing and transportation in pharmaceutical area, planning of senior housing and related services in senior area, and healthcare related information service in the preventive care area. In the fashion business domain, this business unit provides services to accommodate developments in the markets in: • original equipment manufacturing (“OEM”) business for apparel manufacturers; and • brand marketing business including brand licensing. In the field of apparel and OEM, this business unit plays roles at various stages in the value chain, including the design, planning and procurement of materials as well as sewing and processing. OEM business is transferred to the subsidiary company Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. (Japan) which is engaged in planning and production of apparel and accessories, aiming to strengthen specialty and cost efficiency. With respect to brand marketing businesses in Japan, this business unit is engaged in both license and import business involving international brands such as Burberry, Paul Stuart and Max Mara, while some trademark rights such as Pierre Cardin and Hanae Mori are hold by this business unit. This business unit enters into license agreements to retain their exclusive marketing manufacturing rights and establishes joint ventures with the brand holders, which control licensing or distributing imported products establishing nationwide sales network. Responding to the changes in lifestyles, this business unit supplies a variety of consumer goods such as beauty and health-related products, interior and living items. Second Consumer Service Business Unit Major business areas of this business unit, including 10 subsidiaries and 10 associated companies, consist of the followings: • real estate business including development of housing, office buildings and commercial facilities, and related services such as senior service housing, self-storage and service office business in both Japan and overseas; and • industrial materials such as housing materials, wood chips, pulp & paper products, packaging materials and off-the-road tires for mines. 45 Table of Contents In the field of real estate business, this business unit is engaged in development, management and lease of condominiums, office buildings and other commercial properties mainly in the Tokyo metropolitan area. This business unit also develops houses and office buildings overseas. Moreover, it owns, operates and leases senior housing properties abroad. This business unit is also engaged in self-storage business and service office business as business development activities in Japan. In the field of the industrial materials, Sumisho & Mitsuibussan Kenzai Co., Ltd. (Japan) supplies housing materials in the Japanese market. Mitsui Bussan Woodchip Oceania Pty. Ltd. operates afforestation projects with Japanese and the local partners in Australia. It also produces and exports woodchips to Japan. As for the pulp & paper business field, Mitsui Bussan Packaging Co., Ltd. (Japan) imports, exports and sells in the domestic market various paper products and packaging materials. This business unit also provides mines with off-the-road tires and related services in South America, Russia and Southeast Asia. IT Business Unit IT Business Unit provides a variety of services, which are delivered through the unit’s 8 subsidiaries and 6 associated companies established in the following five major fields: • network and systems integration (“NI/ SI”) businesses; • business process outsourcing services including enterprise information management and call-center services; • mobile communication businesses including sales agency of mobile handset and telecommunications lines; distribution of mobile handsets; and development and sales of mobile content; • electronics businesses including import and domestic trade of semiconductor devices and equipment/materials for semiconductor and liquid crystal displays; and • display related businesses including export and trade of liquid crystal displays and parts. In the field of NI/SI businesses, a subsidiary, Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan), and an associated company, Nihon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan), both listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, provide integrated solutions to a wide range of customers. • Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. provides services, such as consultation, designing, building and operation of network systems to a wide range of customers including telecommunications carriers, government offices, local municipalities and healthcare and education related public bodies. It is also engaged in planning and development of network systems which are equipped with voice recognition technology and typically used by call centers and in high-security systems such as automatic billing systems used by pay-TV broadcasters. Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. was formed by a merger in April 2007 between NextCom K.K. and Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. Mitsui owns a 58.4% voting interest in Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. as of March 2009. • Nihon Unisys, Ltd. is engaged in the designing and building of computer systems, business process outsourcing services, support services and other peripheral services as well as sales of computer systems. These services are provided to business enterprises in the financial, manufacturing and distribution and public sectors. Mitsui owns a 31.8% voting interest in Nihon Unisys, Ltd. as of March 2009. This business unit has developed business process outsourcing businesses through a subsidiary, J-SCube Inc. (Japan), and an associated company, Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan). J-SCube Inc., which has been engaged in distribution of information processing devices and information input devices, has recently focused on enterprise information management such as customer information input, management and operation. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. (Japan) is one of the Japanese major providers of call centers and related outsourcing services. Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. is now listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, with this business unit’s current voting interest at 34.4% as of March 2009. 46 Table of Contents This business unit is engaged in various mobile communication businesses through alliances with domestic cell phone service providers and manufacturers. Telepark Corp. (Japan), which was a core subsidiary in this field, merged with MS Communications Co., Ltd., a domestic large scale agency and distributor engaged in the same business line, and changed its name to T-GAIA Corporation (Japan) and continued to be listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The merger is to establish its leading position in domestic mobile handset sales and distribution market, by reinforcing cost-efficiency. As a result of the merger, this business unit’s voting interest was diluted to 22.8%, and T-GAIA Corporation became an associated company of this business unit. T-GAIA Corporation is the biggest agencies for cell phone subscription as well as a retailer and distributor of cell phone handsets in Japan, engaged in agent for subscription of fixed telecommunications lines, including broadband connections. This business unit is engaged in mobile distribution with Brightstar Inc., a U.S.-based worldwide distributor of mobile handsets. In the field of electronics products, this business unit is engaged in import and domestic trade of semiconductor devices and equipment/materials for semiconductor and liquid crystal displays mainly through Mitsui Electronics Inc. (Japan). In recent years, this business unit provides semiconductor and liquid crystal displays related products and services in China, principal production base, mainly through our affiliated companies in China. This business unit is also engaged in export and offshore trade of liquid crystal displays and related parts. In July 2007, it established a subsidiary, MBK Distribuidora de Produtos Eletronicos Ltda. in Brazil for the sales and distribution of Japanese manufacturer Sharp Corporation’s electric household appliances including liquid crystal television, and business machines. This business unit is dependent on the business of our subsidiaries and associated companies, most of which are located in Japan, where technological innovation is rapid and competition is fierce. Our important function involves business incubation of IT related products and services, as seen in the case with T-GAIA Corporation and Moshi Moshi Hotline, Inc. Logistics & Financial Markets Segment The Logistics & Financial Markets Segment is engaged in transportation and logistics services, insurance and financial business in Japan and abroad. Gross profit and net loss for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥62.1 billion or 6.1% and minus ¥14.5 billion or minus 8.2% of our consolidated totals, respectively. This segment is composed of the Financial Markets Business Unit and the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, and has 32 subsidiaries including: • in the Financial Markets Business Unit, Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States), Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals (Hong Kong) Limited (Hong Kong, China), Mitsui Bussan Commodities Ltd. (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co., Principal Investments Ltd. (Japan) and MVC Corporation (Japan); and • in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit, Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. (Japan), Mitsuibussan Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japan), TRI-NET (JAPAN) INC. (Japan) and TRI-NET LOGISTICS (ASIA) PTE LTD (Singapore). This segment has 6 associated companies including JA Mitsui Leasing, Ltd. (Japan) in the Financial Markets Business Unit and Mitsui Direct General Insurance Company, Limited (Japan) in the Transportation Logistics Business Unit. 47 Table of Contents Financial Markets Business Unit This business unit has 19 subsidiaries and 3 associated company and is engaged in the following business activities: • trading in various commodity derivatives such as precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”), energy, grain and soft commodities; • development, origination and sales of financial products, investment in and portfolio management of financial products; • financial equity investments including principal investment and venture capital operation; • asset management business such as real estate fund (listed REIT and private fund) and infrastructure fund; and • leasing businesses Mitsui and its subsidiaries such as Mitsui & Co., Energy Risk Management (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (United States), Mitsui Bussan Commodities Ltd. (United Kingdom), and Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals HK Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) are engaged in trading and brokerage in various commodity derivatives such as precious metals, non-ferrous metals listed on the LME, energy, grain and soft commodities. We are also engaged in sales and marketing of various derivatives and financial instruments of our own development to investors and market participants. Japan Alternative Investment Co., Ltd. (Japan) acts as placement agent for alternative investment products such as infrastructure fund and funds of hedge funds. In the financial equity investments field, subsidiaries such as MVC Corporation (Japan) have made investments in the start-up to early phase of promising ventures mainly in IT and medical care businesses with the aim of garnering capital gains from the public offering of investee stock or M&A after incubating them with proactive management support. Mitsui & Co., Principal Investments Ltd. (Japan) is engaged in investing in domestic mature companies and growing companies pursuing capital gains through initial public offering and trade sales after improving the corporate value of the invested companies by providing them with human and other resources of the unit. As of March 31, 2009, this business unit has a 9.3% stake as a limited partner in a limited partnership which was established for investment in Skylark Co., Ltd., a Japanese restaurant chain. In REIT related businesses, Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd. (Japan) provides asset management service to Japan Logistics Fund Inc, a listed REIT on the Tokyo Stock Exchange that is only Japanese REIT specializes in logistics properties such as warehouses and distribution centers. In June 2008, this business unit launched an emerging market infrastructure fund with Challenger Financial Service Group, an Australian-based financial services organization. This fund, while meeting the growing demands of global investors to invest in infrastructure assets, is intended to contribute to the development of emerging market economies by providing the needed capital to the infrastructure space, enabling the rapid growth in the regions. As of the end of March 2009, this business unit has a 34.2% voting interest in JA Mitsui Leasing, Ltd. (Japan), a general leasing company with its strengths in leasing of information-processing equipment and large scale equipment, as well as industrial machinery, aircraft and ocean vessels. JA Mitsui Leasing, Ltd. was created as a joint holding company in April 2008 to integrate smoothly the operations of Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan), an associated company of the unit, and Kyodo Leasing Co., Ltd. (Japan), another major leasing company, to reinforce operating bases. In October 2008, JA Mitsui Leasing, Ltd. merged its wholly-owned two subsidiaries, Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. and Kyodo Leasing Co., Ltd. As of March 31, 2009, this business unit has an 8.8% share of outstanding common stock in Central Finance Co., Ltd., a consumer credit and credit card company in Japan. (From April 1, 2009 this business unit has an 2.2% share of outstanding common stock in Cedyna Financial Corporation (Japan) which OMC Card, Inc. underwent a merger with Central Finance Co., Ltd. and QUOQ, Inc., and changed its trading name to Cedyna Financial Corporation.) 48 Table of Contents Transportation Logistics Business Unit The Transportation Logistics Business Unit provides sophisticated, high value added logistics services to customers, leveraging its longstanding experience in offering such services group-wide. This business unit also seeks the development of new business domains through integrating logistics, financial and information technology. Together with 13 subsidiaries and 3 associated companies, this business unit is engaged in the following business activities: • International transportation services including combined multi transportation centering on container shipping, transportation of plants and other special cargoes, tramper shipping, Logsitics solution services such as SCM, Warehousing and distributions; • Logistics infrastructure projects, including port development projects in emerging countries, and transport-infrastructure such as railway and airports etc; • Insurance agency services and insurance-related consulting.; • New logistic solution business of liquidation of logistics assets utilizing REITs function; and • Agri-food business. In the international logistics business, this business unit has established TRI-NET (JAPAN) INC. and other core subsidiaries, which are located in Japan, the Americas, Europe, South East Asia, and China. Each of those subsidiaries collaborates with the Head Office and overseas trading subsidiaries worldwide to provide customers with solutions to logistics needs through international combined multimodal transportation services using various modes of land, sea and air transportation. And through its tramp shipping services, the Transportation Logistics Business Unit provides transportation for bulk cargoes, such as coal, grain and fertilizers, as well as project transportation services for power generation plants, chemical plants and other facilities. In the development of its warehousing business, Tri-net Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan) has focused in particular in transportation services for bulk chemicals. Tri-net Logistics Co., Ltd. (Japan) is a subsidiary of Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. (Japan). It was established in April 2007 through the merger of three existing logistics and warehousing subsidiaries. In the logistics solutions field, Mitsui Bussan Logistics Management Co., Ltd. uses its logistics engineering capabilities to produce advanced logistics design solutions. This Business Unit is also developing logistics infrastructure and transportation systems with the aim of expanding its business activities in emerging economies including the BRICs and Middle Eastern countries. In Russia, this business unit established large scale warehousing facilities in Moscow for Japanese manufacturers of electrical appliances, construction machinery, motor vehicles and other products. In 2007, it signed an operational partnership agreement with Russian Railways (Russia). In India, this Business Unit plans to develop a special free trade warehouse zone on the outskirts of Delhi in partnership with local capital. Additionally, in the Middle East, this business unit has set up a logistics base in Dubai in partnership with AW Rostamani Group(UAE). In the insurance and risk management field, this business unit provides insurance agency services through Mitsuibussan Insurance Co., Ltd. Several subsidiaries, including Insurance Company of Trinet (USA) Inc., operate as captive insurance companies and also uses its experience and knowledge of risk management to provide direct insurance writing services. In addition, this business unit has a 25% share interest in an associated company, Mitsui Direct General Insurance Company, Limited, a direct marketing non-life insurance company specializing in Internet-based sales. In collaboration with the Financial Markets Business Unit, this business unit also develops REITs based on logistics-related real estate. This unit intends to increase the assets for such REIT programs, seeking opportunities for the development of facilities, brokerage in properties and tenants. In June 2008, the Agri-Food Business Strategic Planning Dept. was established in this business unit. The aim of this new organization is to contribute to the maintenance and advancement of domestic agriculture through supporting for agricultural management and production as well as the development of advanced logistical services for agricultural products, utilizing knowledge regarding agriculture and agricultural logistics. 49 Table of Contents Americas Segment The Americas Segment is engaged in sales, intermediary service and manufacturing of various commodities and conducts related business led by overseas trading subsidiaries in North, Central and South America. Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., or Mitsui U.S.A., manages the business of the segment as the center of the regional strategy. Gross profit for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥116.0 billion or 11.4% of our consolidated total. This segment recorded a net loss of ¥7.1 billion or minus 4.0% of our consolidated total. This segment consists of 9 trading subsidiaries including Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. (United States), Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. (Canada) and Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. (Brazil), 34 other subsidiaries owned mainly by Mitsui U.S.A. including Steel Technologies Inc. (United States), Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States), Mit Wind Power Inc. (United States), Mitsui Automotriz S.A. (Peru), Road Machinery, LLC (United States), Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States), Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC (United States), Novus International, Inc. (United States), CornerStone Research & Development Inc. (United States), SunWize Technologies, Inc. (United States), Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio (Brazil), Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States), United Grain Corp. (United States), Mitsui Foods, Inc. (United States), MBK Real Estate LLC (United States) and AFC HoldCo, LLC (United States) and 6 associated companies including MED3000 Group. Inc. (United States). Mitsui U.S.A. is our largest overseas subsidiary, and it carries out many diversified business activities together with subsidiaries and associated companies, in collaboration with the operating segments of the Head Office in Japan. Mitsui U.S.A. has been leading our entry in the U.S. market, and we believe that Mitsui U.S.A. is one of the major exporters of American products. Business activities of Mitsui U.S.A.’s major operating divisions are as follows: • The Iron & Steel Products Division maintains alliances with steel makers, steel processors, and major local customers in the U.S. and other countries. It specializes in streamlining the processes at each step of value chain of steel products, managing inventory and process arrangements. Steel Technologies Inc., a steel processor which operates more than 20 steel processing facilities in North America, which Mitsui U.S.A. acquired in June 2007, is a core operation of this division. It processes flat-rolled steel and provides a wide range of value added services including pickling, cold strip and blanking for automotive steel plate. Among various customers, the United States automotive makers and their affiliated parts makers are major customers. Sales and distribution of energy related steel products inclusive of tubular products sales and distribution within Americas and other areas is another core operation, operated by Champion Pipe & Supply, Inc. • The Energy & Mineral Resources Division engages in copper concentrate, cathode and other copper related products; aluminum ingot; aluminum product; other non-ferrous metal materials; iron and steel raw materials; steel and nonferrous metal scrap; crude oil; petroleum coke, petroleum products, bio-ethanol and natural gas. The initiatives with Sims Metal Management Inc., an associated company of the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, including electrical and electronic recycling, are also handled at this division. Westport Petroleum, Inc. in which this division has a 80% voting share and the Energy Segment has the remaining 20% voting share, is engaged in sales to and purchases from the energy industry with respect to pipeline and cargo trading of petroleum products throughout major international energy markets. These transactions by Westport Petroleum, Inc. account for a significant portion of our revenues from sales of products groupwide. This division, together with the Energy Segment, has MitEnergy Upstream LLC, a subsidiary for the development and production of oil and gas in Gulf of Mexico. • The Infrastructure Projects Division engages in projects of power, water treatment and supply, transportation, natural resources and energy infrastructure in the Americas in collaboration with the Infrastructure Projects Business Unit. This division has subsidiaries such as Hydro Capital Corp. for water treatment projects in Mexico and Mit Wind Power Inc. for wind power generation in Texas. 50 Table of Contents • The Machinery Division engages in the businesses of motor vehicles, ship and marine projects, aircraft and construction and industrial machinery. It focuses on car dealerships, logistics business, construction machinery, newly built vessels to major oil and shipping companies, and aircraft leasing for regional airlines. • The Organic Chemicals Division and the Plastics & Inorganic Chemicals Division are engaged in the domestic and international trade of various chemical products such as plastic materials and products, compound resin and its final products, intermediate of medicine, food additives, chemical fertilizer, pesticide and petrochemical products. Novus International, Inc., a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary, produces and sells amino acids. In addition, Intercontinental Terminal Company is engaged in the chemical tank terminal operation. SunWize Technologies, Inc., which Mitsui U.S.A. acquired in November 2006, engages in sales and installation of solar power systems and modules. • The Foods and Retail Division deals in grain, coffee, foods materials and other foods products. This division has a subsidiary, United Grain Corp., which invests in United Harvest, LLC, a joint venture with CHS Inc. for export facility operations for wheat and other grains, and also has a 20% minority interest in WILSEY FOODS, INC. See also “Foods & Retail Business Unit” for business collaboration with CHS Inc. Additionally, Mitsui Foods Inc. is specialized in the import food distribution business. • In the Consumer Service Business Division, MBK Real Estate LLC handles the development and sale of unit houses and senior housing properties in the California market, as well as commercial properties on the West Coast of the United States. CornerStone Research & Development, Inc. focuses on processing and packaging of healthcare foods and supplements. • The Financial Markets Division engages in financial equity investments including principal investment and venture capital operation. This division has minority ownership interests in Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. and Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd., both of which are subsidiaries of the Logistic & Financial Markets Segment. In September 2007, Mitsui U.S.A. acquired an 87.5% share interest in Affiliated Financial Corporation and BayQuest Capital Corporation, both of which merged into AFC LLC (United States). They provide automotive related financing services throughout the United States. • The Transportation Logistics Division engages in sophisticated, high value added logistics services to customers, leveraging its longstanding experience in offering such services groupwide. This division also engages in investment activities in transportation and logistics field. Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment The Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment is engaged in sales and intermediary service of various commodities and conducts related businesses led by overseas trading subsidiaries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and CIS countries. Effective April 2007, the Europe, the Middle East and Africa Business Unit was formed by reorganizing the former Europe Business Unit in order to cover the businesses in these regions. Gross profit and net loss for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥22.2 billion or 2.2% and minus ¥11.5 billion or minus 6.5% of our consolidated totals, respectively. As of March 31, 2009, this segment consisted of 13 trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC (United Kingdom), Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH (Germany), Mitsui & Co. Benelux S.A./N.V. (Belgium), Mitsui & Co. France S.A.S. (France), Mitsui & Co. Italia S.p.A. (Italy), Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. (United Arab Emirates), 7 subsidiaries including MBK Real Estate Europe Limited (United Kingdom) and 7 associated companies. Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary with its head office in London, manages the overall business activities in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and CIS countries through 12 overseas trading subsidiaries and other branch offices and liaison offices. Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC collaborates with our subsidiaries and associated companies of other operating segments. Recently, the major parts of business in this segment have been sales and intermediary service of steel products, chemicals and machinery. For example, this segment provided assistance services for SCM of steel 51 Table of Contents products procured by Norsk Hydro ASA. In the chemical business, this segment has been engaged in sales and intermediary service of various chemical products and materials supported by our global network and relationship with large scale manufacturers including Bayer Aktiengesellschaft. Over the years, in Central and Eastern Europe, Mitsui has established trading subsidiaries and representative offices to expand business opportunities in the region, and have continuously participated in joint ventures, mainly with Japanese manufacturers. In connection with the enlargement of European Union, Japanese automobile, electric and chemical manufacturers are rushing to set up operations in the region. This segment is collaborating with them by taking advantage of our existing business bases. In April 2008, MBK Real Estate Europe Limited (United Kingdom) was transferred to this segment from the Second Consumer Service Business Unit. This segment also has a 40% voting share in Mitsui Automotive Europe B.V. (Netherlands), a subsidiary of the Motor Vehicle Business Unit. In the Middle East we have established trading subsidiaries Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. (United Arab Emirates), Mitsui and Co. (Middle East) B.S.C.(c) (Bahrain), Mitsui and Co., Iran Ltd. (Iran) and Mitsui and Co. Kuwait W.L.L. (Kuwait). Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. owns offices in United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman. Mitsui has several representative offices in the Middle East countries including Saudi Arabia. These trading subsidiaries and offices in the Middle East collaborate with the Head Office primarily in the field energy development and production and projects of petrochemical plants and power plants. Asia Pacific Segment Effective April 2006, following the introduction of our regional business unit system, the Asia Business Unit was formed and consists of the trading subsidiaries, branches and liaison offices in this region. The Chief Operating Officer of this business unit has been delegated authority of operation within this region. The Asia Pacific Segment is engaged in sales and intermediary service of various commodities and conducts related businesses led by overseas trading subsidiaries in Asia and Oceania countries. Effective April 2007, the Asia Pacific Business Unit was formed by reorganizing the former Asia Business Unit and consolidating subsidiaries in Oceania region. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥26.6 billion or 2.6% and ¥30.6 billion or 17.2% of our consolidated totals, respectively. As of March 31, 2009, this segment consisted of 20 trading subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore), Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. (Hong Kong, China), Mitsui & Co. (China) Ltd. (China), Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. (China), Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. (Taiwan), Mitsui & Co. Korea Ltd. (Republic of Korea), Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. (Thailand), Mitsiam International Ltd. (Thailand), Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. (Australia), 6 subsidiaries and 5 associated companies including HannSpree Inc. (Cayman Islands). China China joined the WTO in 2001 and enjoyed double-digit growth in gross domestic product from 2003 to 2007. Chinese economy has gaining greater influence on the world economy, though the growth rate in 2008 declined to 9.0% due to the financial turmoil. We have been increasing our operations in, and shifting corporate resources to, Greater China, which includes mainland China and Hong Kong, in order to expand and strengthen our business operations in key industries in China such as steel products, chemicals, mineral and metal resources, foods and retail, IT, and transportation and logistics. Our presence in China is comprised of nine local trading subsidiaries, all of which have been permitted to conduct import and export and wholesale trade domestically within China. Those trading subsidiaries include Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd., an investing company in Beijing, Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd., which is located in China’s bonded area, and Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. In addition, we have established representative offices in seven cities in China. 52 Table of Contents Mitsui & Co., (China) Ltd. has made investments jointly with the business units of the Head Office in critical joint ventures in key industries in China such as steel products, mineral and metal resources, and foods. ASEAN Region In the ASEAN region, trading subsidiaries including Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Mitsui & Co., (Thailand) Ltd., Mitsiam International Ltd. (Thailand) and PT Mitsui Indonesia (Indonesia), and associated companies jointly collaborate with the Head Office and engage in various business activities involving, among other things, chemical and metal products and industrial type projects. With the Head Office, trading subsidiaries jointly establish various subsidiaries and participate in joint ventures formed with the third parties. In December 2006, we obtained a special approval from the Vietnamese government to establish trading subsidiaries, and Mitsui & Co. Vietnam Ltd. started operations in April 2007. Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. started operations undertaking all the businesses with the relevant assets, liabilities, contracts and employees from the Singapore branch of Mitsui & Co., Ltd in April 2007. Southwest Asia Our operations in India were traditionally handled by branch offices in New Delhi, Calcutta, Madras and Bombay and were concentrated primarily in exporting commodities, such as iron ore, finished iron and steel products, textiles, and marine products, to Japan and other areas of the world. However, with the increasing deregulation of the Indian economy, in March 2003 we established Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd. Through Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd., we expect not only to engage in import and export-related transactions but also to pursue investment opportunities in domestic distribution channels. Oceania In Australia, Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. is active in the development of minerals such as iron ore and coal, energy and agricultural exports in collaboration with corresponding operating segments, mainly in the Head Office. As described in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Energy Segment above, Australia is a critical geographic area in our corporate strategy. Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. participates in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) with equity shares of 20% and 30%, respectively. All Other Segment The operations of the All Other Segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us and associated companies. Gross profit and net income for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥2.9 billion or 0.3% and ¥6.5 billion or 3.7% of our consolidated totals, respectively. The All Other Segment has 11 subsidiaries, including Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui Bussan Trade Services Ltd. (Japan), Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd. (Singapore), Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V. (Netherlands) and Mitsui & Co. Financial Service (U.S.A.) Inc. (United States), and 1 associated company. The activities of major subsidiaries in this segment are as follows: • Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. is engaged in financial services such as commercial loan and cash management services, mainly provided to the wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. • Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd., Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V. and Mitsui & Co. Financial Service (U.S.A.) Inc. are engaged in-house financial services to wholly owned subsidiaries in Asia, Europe and Americas, respectively. 53 Table of Contents Principal Markets We are involved in the worldwide trading of various commodities. See “Item 5. A. Operating Results—Revenues” for further details of our revenues by commodity type for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues Distribution by Commodity: Iron and Steel ¥ 865.6 ¥ 801.3 ¥ 566.9 Non-Ferrous Metals 197.5 79.7 99.9 Machinery 394.2 478.2 428.6 Electronics & Information 133.8 182.3 178.8 Chemicals 1,414.9 1,318.6 1,146.6 Energy 1,719.3 2,017.7 1,633.3 Foods 611.2 572.6 467.0 Textiles 28.4 38.2 39.8 General Merchandise 19.4 40.5 50.3 Property and Service Business 150.9 209.8 182.4 Consolidated Total ¥ 5,535.2 ¥ 5,738.9 ¥ 4,793.6 The following table shows our total trading transactions in each of our major markets for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.(1)(2)(3) In Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Japan ¥ 8,845.1 ¥ 9,285.9 ¥ 8,903.1 United States 1,122.6 1,323.8 1,159.1 China 897.6 1,119.1 885.3 All Other 4,482.6 5,280.3 4,324.1 Consolidated Total ¥ 15,347.9 ¥ 17,009.1 ¥ 15,271.6 Notes: (1) Total trading transactions is a voluntary disclosure as permitted by Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent,” and represents the gross transaction volume or the nominal aggregate value of the sales contracts in which we act as principal and transactions in which we serve as agent. Total trading transactions is not meant to represent sales or revenues in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Total trading transactions should not be construed as equivalent to, or a substitute or proxy for, revenues, or as an indicator of our operating performance, liquidity or cash flows generated by operating, investing or financing activities. A substantial part of total trading transactions represents transactions in which title to and payment for the goods pass through us without physical acquisition and delivery through our inventories. We have included the information concerning total trading transactions because it is used by similar Japanese trading companies as an industry benchmark, and we believe it is a useful supplement to results of operations data as a measure of our performance compared to other similar Japanese trading companies. Total trading transactions is included in the measure of segment profit and loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. See Notes 2, “BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” and 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION” accompanying the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (2) Total trading transactions are attributed to countries based on the location of customers. 54 Table of Contents C. Organizational Structure. We are a global general trading company and we conduct our business with our subsidiaries and associated companies. As of March 31, 2009, we had 326 subsidiaries and 207 associated companies that are accounted for by the equity method. The table below provides information on our significant subsidiaries as of March 31, 2009. We have supplementarily provided voting power where it differs from ownership interest. Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Iron & Steel Products Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd. Japan Sales of construction materials and semi-assembled steel products 100.0 MITSUI BUSSAN KOZAI HANBAI CO., LTD. Japan Wholesale of steel products 89.1 MBK Steel Products West Co., Ltd. Japan Wholesale of steel products 100.0 Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. Singapore Wholesale and retail of steel products 85.0 Bangkok Coil Center Co., Ltd. Thailand Steel processing 95.4 98.9 Mineral & Metal Resources Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 100.0 Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Australia Mining and sales of Australian iron ore 70.0 Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Netherlands Investments in a copper mine in Chile 61.9 Mitsui Raw Materials Development Pty. Limited Australia Investment in Sims Metal Management Ltd., a scrap metal recycler 100.0 MITSUI BUSSAN METALS CO., LTD. Japan Sales and trading of scrap, ferroalloys and non-ferrous material products 100.0 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects MBK Project Holdings Ltd. Japan Investments in manufacturers of plant-related materials and equipment 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Plant Systems, Ltd. Japan Sales of various plants, electric power facilities and transportations 100.0 Mitsui Power Ventures Limited United Kingdom Investments in power generation business 100.0 MIT POWER CANADA LP INC. Canada Investment in Greenfield Power Generation Project in Ontario 100.0 Mitsui Renewable Energy Europe Limited United Kingdom Investment in wind power generation business in Poland 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings, Inc. United States Freightcar leasing and management in North America 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. Netherlands Locomotive leasing and management in Europe 100.0 Mitsui Rail Capital Participacoes Ltda. Brazil Freightcar leasing and management in Brazil 100.0 MITSUI GAS E ENERGIA DO BRASIL LTDA. Brazil Investments in gas distribution companies 100.0 Cactus Energy Investment B.V. Netherlands Investment in an LNG terminal in Mexico 100.0 55 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Drillship Investment B.V. Netherlands Investment in deepwater drilling service business 100.0 Mitsui Water Holdings (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand Investment in water supply business 100.0 Atlatec Holdings, S.A. de C.V. Mexico Designing, building and operation of water treatment plants 88.4 85.0 Tokyo International Air Cargo Terminal Ltd. Japan Operation of air cargo terminal at Tokyo International Airport 100.0 Toyota Chile S.A. Chile Import and sales of automobiles and auto parts in Chile 100.0 Mitsui Automotive North America Inc. United States Investment in auto parts logistics business 100.0 Mitsui Automotive Europe B.V. Netherlands Investments in automotive-related companies and trading of automobiles 100.0 Mitsui Automotive CIS Investment B.V. Netherlands Investment in automotive-related companies in Russia 100.0 PT. Bussan Auto Finance Indonesia Motorcycle retail finance 90.0 Mitsiam Motors Co., Ltd. Thailand Sales of trucks and buses 74.4 99.0 Komatsu-Mitsui Maquinarias Peru S.A. Peru Sales of construction and mining equipment 60.0 Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 Clio Marine Inc. Liberia Shipping business 100.0 Orient Marine Co., Ltd. Japan Shipping business 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Aerospace Co., Ltd. Japan Import and sales of helicopters and defense and aerospace products 100.0 Chemical P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak Indonesia Production and sales of anhydrous ammonia 75.0 Japan-Arabia Methanol Company Ltd. Japan Investments in methanol producing business in Saudi Arabia and sales of products 55.0 MITSUI BUSSAN SOLVENT & COATING CO., LTD. Japan Sales and trading of solvents and coating materials 100.0 Mitsui AgriScience International SA/NV Belgium Investments in crop protection businesses in Europe 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Agro Business Co., Ltd. Japan Development and sales of fertilizers and agricultural products 100.0 DAIICHI TANKER CO., LTD. Japan Operation of chemical tankers 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Plastics Trade Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of plastics and chemicals 100.0 Daito Chemical Industries, Ltd. Japan Production and sales of industrial chemicals 70.0 Shark Bay Salt Pty. Ltd. Australia Production of salt 100.0 Mitsui Electronics SCM (China) Co., Ltd. Hong Kong,China Electronics manufacturing service for liquid crystal parts 100.0 56 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Energy Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited Australia Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 100.0 Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. Netherlands Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in Oman 81.4 100.0 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. Japan Exploration, development and sales of crude oil and natural gas 53.5 53.0 MitEnergy Upstream LLC United States Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 86.0 100.0 Mitsui Gas Development Qatar B.V. Netherlands Development and production of natural gas and condensate 100.0 Mitsui Sakhalin Holdings B.V. Netherlands Investments in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. 100.0 Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Australia Investments in Australian coal business 100.0 Mitsui Oil (Asia) Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong,China Physical and derivatives trading of oil and petroleum products 100.0 Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of petroleum products in Japan 89.9 Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Japan Sales of liquefied petroleum gas in Japan 60.0 Foods & Retail Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. Japan Manufacture and sales of food products 51.9 87.6 PRI Foods Co., Ltd. Japan Production, processing and sales of broilers 77.8 77.9 San-ei Sucrochemical Co., Ltd. Japan Manufacture and sales of sugars, pharmaceuticals, feedstuffs and other products 69.7 65.0 MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. Japan Wholesale of foods and beverages 99.9 Toho Bussan Kaisha, Ltd. Japan Import and sales of agricultural and marine products 96.3 VENDOR SERVICE CO., LTD. Japan Procurement and demand chain planning and management of food materials 100.0 WILSEY FOODS, INC. United States Investments in processed oil food company 90.0 Mitsui Alimentos Ltda. Brazil Export of coffee beans and domestic sales of roasted coffee 100.0 MCM FOODS B.V. Netherlands Import and sales of canned food products and groceries 100.0 57 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) Consumer Service & IT Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd. Japan Planning and management of production and distribution of apparel 100.0 BUSSAN REAL ESTATE CO., LTD. Japan Real estate sales, leasing and management 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Woodchip Oceania Pty. Ltd. Australia Planting and production and sales of woodchip 100.0 Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. Japan Planning, development and sales of information and communication systems 58.5 58.4 J-SCube Inc. Japan Outsourcing services for data entry and other back-office tasks 100.0 Mitsui Electronics Inc. Japan Sales of electronics device and equipment 100.0 MBK Distribuidora de Produtos Eletronicos Ltda. Brazil Sales of home electric appliances and office equipment 100.0 Logistics & Financial Markets Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. United Kingdom Trading of energy derivatives 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. United States Trading of precious metals 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Precious Metals (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong,China Trading of precious metals 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Commodities Ltd. United Kingdom Trading of non-ferrous metals 100.0 Mitsui & Co., Principal Investments Ltd. Japan Investment in private equity 100.0 MVC Corporation Japan Investment in venture businesses 100.0 Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd. Japan Investments in domestic warehousing businesses 99.8 Mitsuibussan Insurance Co., Ltd. Japan Non life and life insurance agency services 100.0 TRI-NET (JAPAN) INC. Japan International integrated transportation services 100.0 TRI-NET LOGISTICS (ASIA) PTE LTD Singapore International integrated transportation services 100.0 Americas Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. United States Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Canada Trading 100.0 Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. Brazil Trading 100.0 Steel Technologies Inc. United States Steel processing 100.0 Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. United States Sales of OCTG (steel pipe for oil & gas production) and other steel products for energy industry 100.0 Mit Wind Power Inc. United States Investment in wind power generation company 100.0 Mitsui Automotriz S.A. Peru Retail sales of automobiles and autoparts 100.0 Road Machinery, LLC United States Sales of construction and mining equipment 100.0 Ellison Technologies Inc. United States Sales of machine tools 88.8 Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC United States Chemical tank leasing 100.0 Novus International, Inc. United States Manufacture and sales of feed additives 65.0 CornerStone Research & Development, Inc. United States Processing and packaging of healthcare foods and supplements 100.0 58 Table of Contents Operating Segment Company Country ofIncorporation Principal Business OwnershipInterest(%) VotingPower(%) SunWize Technologies, Inc. United States Sales and installation of solar battery modules 100.0 Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio Brazil Production and sales of fertilizers 100.0 Westport Petroleum, Inc. United States International trading of petroleum products and crude oil 100.0 United Grain Corp. United States Grain merchandising 100.0 Mitsui Foods, Inc. United States Import and sales of canned food products and groceries 100.0 MBK Real Estate LLC United States Real estate-related business 100.0 AFC HoldCo, LLC United States Investment in auto finance companies 87.5 Europe, the Middle East and Africa Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC United Kingdom Management of business in Europe and Africa 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC United Kingdom Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH Germany Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Benelux S.A./N.V. Belgium Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. France S.A.S. France Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Italia S.p.A. Italy Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co., Middle East Ltd. United Arab Emirates Trading 100.0 MBK Real Estate Europe Limited United Kingdom Real estate-related business 100.0 Asia Pacific Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. Singapore Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong, China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (China) Ltd. China Management of business in China 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Shanghai) Ltd. China Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Taiwan) Ltd. Taiwan Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Korea Ltd. Republic of Korea Trading 100.0 Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand Trading 100.0 Mitsiam International Ltd. Thailand Trading 51.2 55.0 Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Australia Trading 100.0 All Other Mitsui Bussan Trade Services Ltd. Japan Shared service center within Mitsui 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services Ltd. Japan Financing services within the Group 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd. Singapore Financing services within the Group 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V. Netherlands Financing services within the Group 100.0 Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (U.S.A.) Inc. United States Financing services within the Group 100.0 (1) MITSUI BUSSAN METALS CO., LTD. changed its name from Mitsui Bussan Raw Materials Development Corp. in April 2008 upon its merger with MITSUI BUSSAN METALS SALES CO., LTD. (2) MITSUI BUSSAN SOLVENT & COATING CO., LTD. changed its name to Mitsui Bussan Chemical Co., Ltd. in April 2009 upon its merger with Bussan Chemicals Co., Ltd. (3) Mitsui Bussan Plastics Trade Co., Ltd. changed its name from Nippon Trading Co., Ltd. in April 2008 upon its merger with Mitsui Bussan Plastics Co., Ltd. and Mitsui Bussan Plastics Kansai Co., Ltd. (4) Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. changed its name from Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. in April 2008 upon its merger with Marubeni Gas Energy Co., Ltd. (5) PRI Foods Co., Ltd. changed its name from DAI-ICHI BROILER CO., LTD. in April 2008 upon its merger with K.K. Ichirei, Gordex Corporation and Hypor Japan Co., Ltd. 59 Table of Contents D. Property, Plants and Equipment. The following table provides a list of our principal property, plants and equipment as of March 31, 2009. (Sft: Square feet, MT: Metric Ton) Property, Plant and Equipment Description(Holder or Lessee Other than Mitsui) Location Size or AnnualProductionCapacity Use of property In Japan: Mitsuibussan Building Tokyo 1,321,572 Sft Office use (Corporate Headquarters) Osaka Mitsuibussan Building Osaka 450,306 Sft Office use Nagoya Mitsuibussan Building Nagoya 152,067 Sft Office use Hibiya Central Building Tokyo 504,419 Sft Office building for lease Bussan Building Annex Tokyo 204,275 Sft Office building for lease Human Resource Development Center Shizuoka 83,863 Sft Training facility Land and equipment (Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd.) Yokohama 197,324 Sft Steel processing factory Land and equipment (Seikei Steel Tube Corp.) Tochigi 195,290 Sft Steel processing factory Land and equipment (Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd.) Ishikawa 852,072 Sft Liquefied petroleum gas terminal Land (MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.) Saitama 71,171 Sft Distribution center Land and equipment (PRI Foods Co., Ltd.) Aomori 305,512 Sft Broiler processing factory Land and equipment (Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd.) Yamanashi 339,871 Sft Tea leaf processing factory Land and equipment (San-ei Sucrochemical Co., Ltd.) Aichi 817,433 Sft Dextrose manufacturing factory Wakamatsu Building & Shinsuna Bayside Building (Bussan Real Estate Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 172,406 Sft Office building for lease Higashi Nakano Office Building (Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd.) Tokyo 36,317 Sft Office use Land (Mitsui Bussan Logistics Holdings Ltd.) Chiba 649,753 Sft Logistics center Overseas: Office space (Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.) United States 205,132 Sft Office space leased from others Office building (Mitsui & Co. UK PLC) United Kingdom 64,369 Sft Office use Equipment (Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 21,309,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Equipment (Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 2,660,000 Mt Mining equipment for iron ore Land and plants (P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak) Indonesia 579,397 Sft Ammonia manufacturing plant Equipment (Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd.) Australia(1) 7,148,000 Mt Mining equipment for coal Land and equipment (Steel Technologies Inc.) United States 228,901 Sft Steel processing factory Chemical tank yard (Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC) United States 11,495,355 Sft Chemical tank Senior service apartment (MBK Real Estate, Ltd.) United States 146,628 Sft Leasing asset Land and plants (Novus International, Inc.) United States 658,187 Sft Methionine production facility Office building (MBK Real Estate Europe Limited) United Kingdom 75,486 Sft Office building for lease (1) Information on our mining activities related to Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd., Mitsui-Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. that are located in Australia is shown in “Mineral & Metal Resources Segment” and “Energy Segment” of “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Mining Activities” below. 60 Table of Contents In addition to the above, our major assets leased to others as of March 31, 2009 were as below: • Some companies, including Clio Marine Inc. (Liberia), Lepta Shipping Co., Ltd. (Liberia) and LPG Transport Service Ltd. (Bermuda), own ocean vessels leased to foreign and domestic shipping companies whose combined book value amounts to ¥32 billion; and • Some companies, including Mitsui Rail Capital Holdings Inc. (United States) and Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V. (Netherlands), own rolling stock mainly leased to railway companies in the United States and European countries amounting to ¥53 billion as book value. For information on oil and gas producing activities, see “Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. A portion of the land, buildings and equipment owned by us is subject to mortgages or other liens. As of March 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of such mortgages or other liens was ¥63 billion. We know of no material defect in our title to any of the properties or of no material adverse claim with respect to them, either pending or contemplated. We consider our offices and other facilities to be well maintained and believe that our plant capacity is adequate for our current requirements. For the information on plans to construct, expand or improve facilities, in particular those related to mineral resource projects and oil and gas projects, see relevant descriptions in “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company—Capital Expenditures,” “Mineral & Metal Resources Segment” and “Energy Segment” of “Item 4.B. Business Overview” and “Mining Activities” below in this section. We do not believe there are any material environmental issues that would affect the utilization of our assets. 61 Table of Contents Mining Activities Information regarding our mining activities is provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(1) Location Type ofMineralResources(2) Fe Basis(%) Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J(3) Robe Valley, south of the town of Pannawonica Channel Iron Deposit 57.2 Railway and port (owned by Robe River Iron Associates and operated by Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd.) Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia Open pit Supplied through the integrated Hamersley and Robe power network operated by Pilbara Iron West Angelas(3) Approximately 100 km west of the town of Newman Marra Mamba 61.8 Same as above Same as above Open pit Same as above Name of Mines(2) Location Type ofMineralResources(3) Fe Basis(%) Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source Mt. Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mt. Whaleback Near the town of Newman, 426 km south of Port Hedland Brockman Marra Mamba 62.661.9 Railway (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) and the Nelson Point shipping facilities at Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) Mineral lease granted in 1967 under the Iron Ore (Mt. Newman) Agreement Act 1964 scheduled to expire in 2009 with rights for successive renewals for 21 years Open cut Sourced from Alinta Dewap’s Newman gas-fired power station via Company-owned powerlines under long-term contracts Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek 92 km north of Newman, 310 km south of Port Hedland Channel Iron Deposit 57.2 Rail spur (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) connected to the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mt. Newmani Joint Venture) and the Nelson Point shipping facilities at Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) Mining lease granted in 1991 under the Iron Ore (Marillana Creek) Agreement Act 1991 scheduled to expire in 2012 with the right to extend for additional 42 years Open cut Sourced from Alinta Dewap’s Newman gas-fired power station via Company-owned powerlines under long-term contracts 62 Table of Contents Name of Mines(2) Location Type ofMineralResources(3) Fe Basis(%) Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Northern (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 210 km east of Port Hedland Nimingarra 59.2 Railway (owned and operated by Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture) and the Nelson Point shipping facilities at Port Hedland (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) Four mineral leases under the Iron Ore (Mt. Goldsworthy) Agreement Act 1964 and the Iron Ore (Goldsworthy— Nimingarra) Agreement Act 1972, which have expiry dates between 2008 and 2028 with rights to successive renewals of 21 years. Open cut Sourced from Alinta Dewap’s Port Hedland gas-fired power station under long-term contracts Area C 120 km northwest of Newman, 37 km southwest of Yandi Brockman Marra Mamba 62.0 61.9 Rail spur (owned by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) connecting to the Yandi spur line (owned by Yandi Joint Venture) and then onto the main Newman/ Hedland line (owned and operated by Mt. Newman Joint Venture) and the Finucane Island shipping facilities at Port Hedland (owned and operated by Goldsworthy Joint Venture) Same as above Open cut Sourced from Alinta Dewap’s Newman gas-fired power station under long-term contracts (1) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (2) “Channel Iron Deposit”, “Marra Mamba”, “Brockman” and “Nimingarra” refer to the types of iron ore that are found in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. (3) The percentage figures of “Fe Basis” of Mesa J and West Angelas represent the figures corresponding to mines, excluding the figures corresponding to stockpile components. 63 Table of Contents COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest(2) Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Name of Mines(3) Location Type ofResources Means of Accessto the Property Title/Lease Type ofMine Power Source BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) (20%) Queensland, Australia South Walker Creek In the Bowen Basin, 100 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway (Queensland Rail) and port in Mackay Leases have expiry dates between 2008 and 2020 and are renewable for such further periods as the Queensland Government allows. Open cut State ownedgrid Poitrel Same as above Same asabove Same as above Same as above Same asabove Same asabove Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla 4 km west of Muswellbrook in the Upper Hunter Valley Thermal coal Railway and port at Newcastle Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel In the Bowen Basin, 300 km west of Rockhampton Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Underground State ownedgrid Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) In the Bowen Basin 184 km south-west of Gladstone Metallurgicalcoal andthermal coal Railway and port at Gladstone Leases granted by State Open pit State ownedgrid German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek In the Bowen Basin, 240 km south-west of Mackay Metallurgicalcoal Railway and port at Mackay Leases granted by State Open pit andunderground State ownedgrid (1) “BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.” indicates the name of the company established by BHP Billiton plc and Mitsui. (2) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. is our associated company in which Mitsui has 20% interest. Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. is our subsidiary which owns interests in Bengalla Joint Venture, Kestrel Joint Venture, Dawson Joint Venture and German Creek Joint Venture. (3) “Name of mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. 64 Table of Contents A brief history and the present condition of each of the above-mentioned mines, including the current state of development, if applicable, are provided below. IRON ORE Name of Joint Venture Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (33%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mesa J The development of the Robe River project began in 1962(*) near Pannawonica. The Robe River project was commissioned and the first shipment was made in 1972. Iron ore reserves at the Mesa J production Base provide the cornerstone of Pannawonica’s sinter fines and lump output. Development of Mesa J began in 1992, and all mine administration, workshops, warehousing and other support facilities were integrated there in 1994. The mine produces Rove River fines and lump, which are pisolitic iron ore products. Process Plant 1 was commissioned in 1999 and Process Plant 2 in 2001. The plant processes clay-contaminated pisolite, sub-grade material which was once discarded, to reduce contaminants and retain on-specification ore. In December 2007, the joint venture decided to develop Mesa A / Warramboo mine which will have a full scale capacity of 25 million tons per annum and is expected to start production in 2010. The total capital cost will be estimated at US$901 million. The total mine life of Mesa A is expected to be 11 years. With this addition, total production of Robe Valley pisolite ore will be maintained at 32 million tons per annum. West Angelas The development of West Angelas began in 1998. Mining of ore commenced in March 2002. The West Angelas deposits contain Marra Mamba type iron ore with higher iron content than Robe River’s Mesa J mine. The West Angelas operation is comprised of an open pit mine, a crushing and screening ore processing plant producing lump and sinter fines iron ore, as well as stockpiling, reclaiming and train-loading facilities. Further expansion of the West Angelas mine was completed in October 2005. This US$105 million project took the mine’s production capacity to 25 million tons per year. Robe River Iron Associates uses a dedicated rail system, operated by Pilbara Iron, to transport ore from its mines to the company’s deepwater port facilities at Cape Lambert. Also, a US$200 million rail expansion project to duplicate almost 100 kilometers of track and associated interconnection and infrastructure to increase the capacity of the Pilbara Iron main line was completed in the first quarter of 2006. A further expansion plan to increase port capacity at Cape Lambert from nameplate capacity of 55 to 80 million tones per year was completed in November 2008, ahead of time with the total capital cost of US$860 million. Progressive capacity will ramp up in the first half of 2009. (*) The Robe River project was originally started by Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company, an iron and steel producer in the United States. Since then, there were major changes in ownership before Rio Tinto took a 53% stake in Robe River Iron Associates in 2000. Mt. Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (10%) (Mitsui share of Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. is 70%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Mt. Whaleback The joint venture began production in 1969 at the Mt. Whaleback ore body. Today, production continues to be sourced from the major Mt. Whaleback ore body and is complemented by production from other ore bodies, namely Orebody 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30 and Jimblebar, which we are involved in through the Wheelarra arrangement with BHP Iron Ore (Jimblebar) Pty Ltd, Itochu Minerals & Energy Australia Pty Ltd, and 4 Chinese steel companies. The facilities at Mt. Whaleback include primary and secondary crushing plants with a nominal capacity of 35 million tons of product per year, a heavy media beneficiation plant with an annual capacity of 8 million tons and a train-loading facility. An additional primary and secondary crushing plant is present at Orebody 25 with a nominal capacity of 8 million tons of product per year. A crusher and train-loading facility are also located at Orebody 18. 65 Table of Contents Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Marillana Creek Development of the ore body began in 1991 and the project’s first shipment of iron ore was in March 1992. Capacity was progressively expanded between 1994 and 2003 and the current capacity is 42 million tons per annum. Two processing plants and a primary crusher and overland conveyor are used to crush and screen the Yandi ore and deliver it to one of two train loading facilities. Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (7%) Pilbara Region, Western Australia, Australia Northern (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Mt. Goldsworthy was commissioned in 1966 in the North Area. The original Goldsworthy mine was closed in 1982 and mining operations ceased at Shay Gap mine in 1993. Since then, mining has continued from the adjacent Nimingarra and Yarrie, 30 kilometers to the south-east. The primary crushers at Yarrie and Nimingarra, with a combined capacity of 8 million tons of products per year, have been placed into care and maintenance. Yarrie is currently using mobile in-pit crushing plant at a rate of 2 million tons of products per year. The ore is crushed and then railed to Port Hedland. Area C In October 2003, the joint venture opened the new Area C mine located 120 kilometers north-west of Newman, which produces Brockman ore and Marra Mamba ore deposits, which are sold under the trademark MAC. An ore processing plant, primary crusher and overland conveyor are located at Area C with a capacity of 42 million tons of products per year. All production from the Mt. Goldsworthy Northern (Yarrie and Nimingarra) is transported on a separate railway to Port Hedland. Ore from Area C is transported via a 39 kilometer new section of railway to the Yandi mine which then connects to the Newman main line to Port Hedland. Development projects at joint ventures with BHP Billiton Ltd. The three joint ventures, namely, Mt. Newman joint venture, Yandi joint venture and Mt. Goldsworthy joint venture have been planning for staged expansions of supply capacity. As a step, in October 2005 they approved the Rapid Growth Project 3 (RPG3) to add 20 million tons per annum to their capacity, upgrading combined capacity to 129 million tons per annum by 2007. The capital expenditure for the expansion work totaled A$2.2 billion (Mitsui’s share was approximately A$150 million). The expansion focused mainly on the Area C mine and encompassed expansions of rail systems and the loading port, including the rebuilding of the ‘C’ berth at Finucane Island. RGP3 was completed by 2008. In addition, in March 2007, the joint ventures approved the Rapid Growth Project 4 (RGP4) to increase annual production capacity to 155 million tons per annum by early 2010. The capital expenditure for the expansion will total approximately A$2.7 billion. The expansion includes development of a new crushing and screening plant, as well as additional stockyard, car dumping and train loading facilities at Mt. Whaleback. Furthermore, in November 2008, the joint ventures approved the Rapid Growth Project 5 (RGP5) with a total capital investment of US$5.6 billion. RGP5 will increase installed capacity by 50 million tons to 205 million tons per annum. RGP5 is expected to deliver first production in the second half of 2011. The majority of production growth will come from the Yandi and Mining Area C operations. RGP5 will also deliver significant infrastructure upgrades including additional shipping berths at the Port Hedland inner habour (Finucane Island), substantial double tracking of the rail system and additional crushing, screening and stockpiling facilities at Yandi. 66 Table of Contents COAL Name of Joint Venture or Investee Entity by which Mitsui Participates in the Mining Activity and its Ownership Interest Area of Mining Operation (Region, State, Country) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia South Walker Creek The joint venture commissioned Riverside in 1983, and its reserves were depleted in March 2005. South Walker Creek became operational in 1996. It produces pulverized coal injection (PCI) product and minor quantities of by- product energy coal. South Walker Creek has a production capacity of 3.8 million tons per year. BHP Mitsui Coal holds undeveloped leases in the Bowen Basin. Poitrel Construction for the Poitrel mine commenced in early 2006 and first coal was produced in October 2006. The mine has a production capacity of 3.0 million tons per annual of metallurgical and PCI coals. Bengalla Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (10%) New South Wales, Australia Bengalla Development consent was granted in 1996 and production commenced in 1999. Coal & Allied, Rio Tinto’s subsidiary in Australia, acquired its interest in Bengalla in 2001. Its coal preparation plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash thermal coal for export. Production in 2008 was 5.4 million tons of thermal coal. Kestrel Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (20%) Queensland, Australia Kestrel The Kestrel Coal mine, previously known as Gordonstone Mine, commenced operation in 1992. Coal is extracted by underground mining. The mine has two longwall units that are operated alternately to minimize downtime and ensure seamless production and reliability. The Kestrel Preparation Plant has been designed to allow the mine to produce low ash coking coal and high energy thermal coal. Production in 2008 was 4.0 million tons saleable high quality coking coal and export thermal coal. In January 2008, joint venture approved development of the new mining area for extend the operation period of Kestrel Joint Venture as the existing mining area is expected to be exhausted in 2014. Construction of this project started in August 2008 and the total capital expenditure will be A$1,443 million. The operation is expected to commence in 2012 and the project estimates a maximum 6.5 million tons per annum coal production with 20-year operation. Dawson Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (49%) Queensland, Australia Dawson (formerly “Moura”) Dawson Joint Venture was originally called Moura Joint Venture. The Moura Mine commenced operation in 1961. Since 1994, all production at Moura has been from its surface operation. Production tonnage has been increasing steadily throughout the years. After a few changes of ownership, Anglo Coal acquired a 51% share in 2002. In September 2003, the adjacent Theodore deposit was developed which further expanded its capacity. Anglo Coal Australia and Mitsui Coal Holdings intend to recapitalize their existing operations at the Moura mine and to establish two additional operations on adjacent tenures. The new and expanded operations are known as the Dawson Complex. Moura Joint Venture has already changed its name to Dawson Joint Venture. The joint venture’s capital expenditure was estimated in excess of A$1 billion. Expansion work of the Dawson complex was completed in the year ended March 31, 2008, aiming to boost annual coal production from the present capacity of 6.5 million tons per annum to 12.7 million tons of metallurgical and thermal coals. German Creek Joint Venture Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (30%) Queensland, Australia German Creek Open pit mining commenced in 1981. Underground mining in the Central Colliery area started in 1984, while underground mining in the Southern Colliery area began in 1988. Grasstree is a new underground mine which commenced production in 2006 and produces hard coking coal for our export markets. In addition, the joint venture has started the development of Lake Lindsay mine, a new open cut mine adjacent to German Creek mine, with estimated ultimate completion during 2009, to increase the aggregate annual production from 6 to 10 million tons per annum and to extend the total joint venture’s mine life by about 11 years. 67 Table of Contents Production Tonnage IRON ORE Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s SubsidiaryorAssociated Company In Thousands of Tons Year Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Pannawonica(1) 21,810 7,197 26,132 8,624 28,960 9,557 West Angelas 23,773 7,845 26,756 8,829 24,866 8,206 Mt. Newman Joint Venture Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Mt. Whaleback(2) 37,993 2,660 42,808 2,997 39,828 2,788 Yandi Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Marillana Creek 45,859 3,210 46,253 3,238 40,872 2,861 Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Northern (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) 1,632 114 1,041 73 3,341 234 Area C 42,038 2,943 27,744 1,942 24,011 1,681 Sesa Goa Limited(3) Sesa Goa Limited India Codli, Sonshi Goa — — — — 4,125 2,104 Chitradurga, Hospet Karnataka — — — — 1,433 736 TOTAL 173,105 23,969 170,734 25,703 167,446 28,167 (1) The Pannawonica mine is composed of Mesa J, a producing mine, and other adjacent mines. (2) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. (3) We sold our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited in April 2007. 68 Table of Contents COAL Production tonnage figures in the table below represent those of marketable products as tonnage after accounting for extraction and beneficiation losses. Joint Venture or Investee and Name of Mines Mitsui’s Subsidiary or Associated Company In Thousands of Tons Year Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Location TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare TotalProduction Mitsui’sShare BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia South Walker Creek 2,862 572 3,422 684 3,049 610 Poitrel 2,270 454 1,438 288 373 75 Bengalla Joint Venture(2) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New SouthWales,Australia 5,357 536 5,155 516 5,544 554 Kestrel Joint Venture(2) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 4,018 804 3,621 724 3,592 718 Dawson Joint Venture (formerly “Moura Joint Venture”(2)) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 6,936 3,399 5,984 2,932 6,903 3,382 German Creek Joint Venture(2) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia 8,031 2,409 5,880 1,764 4,522 1,357 TOTAL 29,474 8,174 25,500 6,908 23,983 6,696 (1) Productions of BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd. indicate productions for the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006. (2) Productions of joint ventures Bengalla, Kestrel, Dawson and German Creek indicate productions for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Reserve Tonnage IRON ORE Reserves of iron ore classified according to operator are presented in the tables below. Operator: Rio Tinto Ltd.( 1)(2)(3) Reserves as disclosed by Rio Tinto Ltd. consist of proved and probable reserves. Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’sSubsidiary orAssociatedCompany In Million of Tons Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Location Type ofMine TotalReserve FeBasis(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve FeBasis(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Robe River Iron Associates Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. PilbaraRegion,Western Australia Pannawonica(4) Open Pit 267 57.2 88 288 57.2 95 327 18 Stockpile 20 56.9 7 16 56.9 5 17 6 West Angelas Open Pit 368 61.8 121 385 61.8 127 403 133 Stockpile 6 58.0 2 6 59.3 2 6 2 (1) Iron ore reserves are shown as recoverable reserves of saleable product after accounting for all mining and processing losses. Mill recoveries are not shown. (2) Reserves of Robe River Iron Associates indicate reserves as of the end of December 2008, 2007 and 2006. (3) Iron ore price (based on a three year average historical price to June 30 2008) used to test whether the reported reserve estimate could be economically extracted was Australian benchmark price (fines) – US$0.79 per dry metric ton unit. (4) The Pannawonica mine is composed of Mesa J, a producing mine, and some adjacent mines. 69 Table of Contents Operator: BHP Billiton Ltd.(1)(2)(3)( 4)(9)(10)(11) Reserve amounts of Mt. Newman, Yandi and Mt. Goldsworthy consist of proved and probable reserves. Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’sSubsidiary orAssociatedCompany In Millions of Tons Year Ended June 30, 2008 2007 2006 Location OreType TotalReserve FeBasis(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve FeBasis(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Mt. Newman Joint Venture(5) Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Mt. Whaleback BKM 823 62.6 58 780 62.6 55 733 51 MM 65 61.9 5 67 62.2 5 66 5 Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Northern(6) NIM 24 59.2 2 3 59.9 0 7 0 (Yarrie) (Nimingarra) Area C(7) BKM 180 62.0 13 MM 396 61.9 28 418 61.9 29 442 31 Yandi Joint Venture(8) Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. Pilbara Region, Western Australia Marillana Creek CID 1,092 57.2 76 913 57.5 64 848 59 (1) The reserves are divided into joint ventures and material types that reflect the various products produced. The West Australian ore types are classified as per the host Archaean or Proterozoic banded iron formations. Ore types are BKM – Brockman, MM – Marra Mamba, NIM – Nimingarra, CID – Channel Iron Deposit. (2) For Mt. Newman, Mt. Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures tonnages represent wet tons based on the following moisture contents: BKM - 3%, MM - 4%, CID - 8%, NIM - 3.5%. Iron ore is marketed as Lump (direct blast furnace feed) and Fines (sinter plant feed). (3) Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are 100% except for Mt. Newman Joint Venture BKM where recovery is 92%. (4) Some cut-off grades have been adjusted to align with revised product strategy. Cut-off grades used to estimate reserves: Mt.Newman 50-62%Fe for BKM, 59%Fe for MM; Mt.Goldsworthy 50%Fe for NIM, 57%Fe for MM, 59.5%Fe for BKM; Yandi 55-55.5%Fe for CID. (5) Changes to Mt. Newman Joint Venture for 2008 are due to additional deposit definition drilling, new geological interpretation and deposit models for Whaleback, Orebody 24, Orebody 25 Pit 4 and Orebody 30, and changed MM and BKM (except Whaleback) cut-off grade from 60%Fe to 59%Fe. (6) Changes to Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Northern for 2008 are due to the inclusion of Cundaline, Nimingarra A and B deposits, and a change in cut-off from 58%Fe to 50%Fe for Cattle Gorge. (7) Changes to Mt. Goldsworthy Joint Venture Area C for 2008 are due to additional deposit definition drilling, new geological interpretation and deposit models for A Deposit, Packsaddle 1 and 3, New Reserve for Packsaddle 1 and 3 (BKM). (8) Changes to Yandi Joint Venture for 2008 are due to a change in cut-off grade from 56%Fe to 55%Fe and 55.5%Fe, additional deposit definition drilling, new geological interpretation and deposit modeling for Yandi W1 and E4, and new pit designs. (9) Reserves provided in the table above indicate reserves as of the end of June 2008, 2007 and 2006. (10) Reserves provided in the table above do not exceed the quantities that we estimate could be extracted economically if future prices at similar levels to long-term contracted prices for the three years to December 31, 2007. (11) “Name of Mines” indicates the names of principal producing mines. 70 Table of Contents COAL In the table below, coal reserves are shown as marketable reserves, which are tonnage after accounting for extraction and processing and preparation losses. Operator: BHP Billiton Ltd.(1)(2) Mitsui’sSubsidiary orAssociatedCompany Location In Millions of Tons Joint Venture or Investeeand Name of Mines Year Ended June 30, 2008 2007 2006 CoalType TotalReserve SulphurContent(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve SulphurContent(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare BHP Mitsui Coal Pty. Ltd.(1) BHP MitsuiCoal Pty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia South Walker Creek Met/Th 31 0.39 6 35 0.37 7 34 7 Poitrel Met/Th 53 0.36 11 51 0.36 10 — — (1) Reserves provided in the table above indicate reserves as of the end of June 2008, 2007 and 2006. Poitrel mine commenced production in November 2006. (2) Coal Types are Met – metallurgical and Th – thermal coal. Operator: Rio Tinto Ltd.(1)(2) JointVentureorInvesteeand Name ofMines Mitsui’s Subsidiary orAssociatedCompany Location In Millions of Tons Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 CoalType TotalReserve CalorificValue(MJ/kg) SulphurContent(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve CalorificValue(MJ/kg) SulphurContent(%) Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Bengalla Joint Venture(2) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. New South Wales, Australia Th 132 28.21 0.47 13 137 28.21 0.47 14 150 15 Kestrel Joint Venture(2) Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. Queensland, Australia Met/Th 131 31.60 0.59 26 136 31.60 0.59 27 112 22 (1) Reserves provided in the table above indicate reserves as of the end of December 2008, 2007 and 2006. (2) Coal Types are Met – metallurgical and Th – thermal coal. Operator: Anglo American Plc.(1)(2) Joint Venture or Investee andName of Mines Mitsui’sSubsidiary orAssociatedCompany Location In Millions of Tons Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 CoalType TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare TotalReserve Mitsui’sShare Dawson Joint Venture(2)(formerly Moura Joint Venture) Mitsui Coal HoldingsPty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia Met/Th 274 134 281 138 288 141 German Creek Joint Venture(2) (including Lake Lindsay Mine) Mitsui Coal HoldingsPty. Ltd. Queensland,Australia Met 147 44 140 42 168 50 (1) Reserves provided in the table above indicate reserves as of the end of December 2008, 2007 and 2006. (2) Coal Types are Met – metallurgical and Th – thermal coal. 71 Table of Contents Equity Production Tonnage and Reserves through associated company (IRON ORE) We hold a 15% profit share in Valepar S.A., which held a 33.3% profit share of the common stock and preferred stock of Vale S.A. (the former Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, which has been renamed legally effective May 22, 2009) as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, 5.0% (33.3% x 15%) of Vale’s production and reserve amounts are indirectly attributable to us. The following table provides iron ore production and reserve amounts for Vale, and Mitsui’s share of the production and reserve amounts of Vale. Production Tonnage (for the year ended December 31) Millions of Tons 2008 2007 2006 Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share Total Production Mitsui’s Share 293.4 14.7 295.9 14.4 264.2 12.9 Proven and Probable Reserves (as of December 31) Millions of Tons 2008 2007 2006 Total Reserve Fe Basis (%) Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Fe Basis (%) Mitsui’s Share Total Reserve Mitsui’s Share 14,328.8 59.0 716.0 7,267.8 56.9 353.9 7,619.3 371.0 Vale’s iron ore reserve estimates increased from 7,267.8 to 14,328.8 million tons. The increase mainly reflects (i) the inclusion of the huge reserves of S11, part of the Serra Sul deposit in Carajás, (ii) the expansion of the N4W reserves into a continuous body to the south of the deposit, and (iii) the inclusion of the low-grade itabirite reserves for the Vargem Grande complex (the Tamanduá, Capitão do Mato and Abóboras mines). All of these deposits have been intensively drilled over the past four years, and the related projects (Serra Sul, Carajás 130 Mt, and Vargem Grande (formerly Itabiritos)) are now in feasibility or pre-feasibility stages. Moreover, Vale’s reserve estimates for Segredo/João Pereira increased due to the expansion of the open-pit project, which was undertaken in order to include low-grade materials, that will be used to feed a new concentration plant. Changes in the other reserves reflect mining production during the year and small changes in new updated geological models and/or pit designs and reserve classifications. Oil and Gas Producing Activities The following table shows crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas production from our reserves for the three fiscal years indicated: Production Information Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate andNatural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Year EndedMarch 31, OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others 2009 19 3 2 5 1 30 98 5 5 44 2 154 2008 16 3 2 5 1 27 107 6 5 44 3 165 2007 11 3 1 6 4 25 96 6 3 45 6 156 72 Table of Contents The following tables show proved reserves and proved developed reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas as of the ending date of three fiscal years indicated: Proved Reserve Information: Proved Reserves Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate andNatural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide As of March 31, OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others 2009 61 (4) 17 13 33 3 127 632 (4) 44 25 714 185 1,600 2008 74 (4) 18 14 35 4 (5) 145 664 (4) 32 31 722 189 (5) 1,638 2007 72 (4) 23 15 37 91 238 344 (4) 31 38 740 1,668 2,821 Proved Developed Reserves(2) Millions of Barrels Billions of Cubic Feet Crude Oil, Condensate andNatural Gas Liquids(1) Natural Gas(1)(3) Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide Consolidated Companies AssociatedCompanies Worldwide As of March 31, OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others OceaniaandAsia MiddleEast Others Oceania Others 2009 44 (4) 14 10 21 3 92 353 (4) 29 15 392 181 970 2008 55 (4) 14 11 20 3 102 322 (4) 15 21 454 182 994 2007 46 (4) 18 11 21 24 120 299 (4) 19 24 385 11 738 (1) 1 barrel of crude oil = 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas (2) The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves was about 34 percent as of March 31, 2007 and relatively low. The expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves were estimated to be ¥502 billion in total as of March 31, 2007. The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves was about 64 percent as of March 31, 2008 and the expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves were estimated to be ¥248 billion in total as of March 31, 2008. This large proportion change is mainly due to the reduction of Mitsui’s interest in Sakhalin II project. The proportion of Proved Developed Reserves to Proved Developed and Undeveloped Reserves was about 64 percent as of March 31, 2009 and almost same level compared to the percentage as of March 31, 2008. The expected costs to develop these undeveloped reserves were estimated to be ¥369 billion in total as of March 31, 2009. (3) The proved gas reserves are restricted to those volumes that are related to firm sales commitments. (4) Includes total proved reserves attributable to Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. of 19 million, 37 million and 32 million barrels of Crude oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids and 265 billions, 636 billions and 584 billions of cubic feet of Natural Gas in March 2007, 2008 and 2009, as well as proved developed reserves of 18 million, 18 million and 19 million barrels of Crude oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids and 227 billions, 294 billions and 339 billions of cubic feet of Natural Gas in March 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, in which there were a 49.7 percent, 48.5 percent and 46.5 percent minority interest. (5) Includes decreases of 96 million barrels in sales of Crude oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids and 1,658 billions of cubic feet in sales of Natural Gas in place, which were mainly related to the reduction of Mitsui’s interest in Sakhalin II project. The estimated net quantities of oil and gas applicable to long-term supply or similar agreements with foreign governments or authorities in which Mitsui acts as producer have not exceeded, nor do they now exceed, one percent of the amount of our total proved reserve for the respective commodity. The tables above reflect such estimated net quantities. 73 Table of Contents Furthermore, the estimated net quantities of oil and gas received during each of the last three fiscal years applicable to long-term supply or similar agreements with foreign governments or authorities in which Mitsui acts as producer have not exceeded, nor do they now exceed, one percent of the amount of our total annual production of the respective commodity. Information on our oil and gas producing activities, which also reflects the immediately preceding sentence, is shown in the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Also see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results by Operating Segment—Energy Segment.” Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments We are a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. There are no written comments which have been provided by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic reports under that Act not less than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 and which remain unresolved as of the date of the filing of this Form 20-F with the Commission and which we believe are material. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements that appear elsewhere in this annual report. Please note that you should be aware that this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. As used in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, “Mitsui” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Bussan Kabushiki Kaisha), and “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to indicate Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. In the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the “Company” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd., and the “companies” is used to refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Note” throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects relate to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. Throughout the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, we describe the domicile of our subsidiaries and associated companies in parentheses following names of those companies. For example, Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. (Australia) means that the company’s name is Mitsui Iron Ore Development, Pty. Ltd. and that it is domiciled in Australia. Operations of a subsidiary that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale have been accounted for as discontinued operations under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). This means that income statement and cash flow information is reclassified for past years to separate the discontinued operations from our continuing operations. This presentation is required by U.S. GAAP and facilitates historical and future trend analysis of our continuing operations. 74 Table of Contents Key Performance Measures under Management’s Discussion Although our operating results and financial condition are influenced by various factors, management believes that as of the end of the fiscal year under review the following indicators can be usefully employed to discuss trends in our performance and financial condition. Gross profit, operating income* and equity in earnings of associated companies We undertake worldwide business activities, involving diversified risk-return profiles, ranging from intermediary services as agent to development and production activities of mineral resources and energy. In this context, changes in the amounts of gross profit, operating income and equity in earnings of associated companies by operating segment reflect the overall progress of our business, and greatly affect the amount of net income in the Statements of Consolidated Income. For further information, refer to the table of “Operating Segment Information” and subsequent discussions in “Operating Results by Operating Segment” in this Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. Trends in the price of and supply-demand for mineral resources and energy In recent years, we have observed a rapid growth in the operating results from our mineral resources and energy producing activities; and, the significance of these operations to our overall operating results has increased dramatically. These results have been brought on by rising prices as well as increased production, reflecting globally tightened supplies and increased demands and increased prices of mineral resources and energy that have been driven by expanding demand from emerging countries, particularly China. Furthermore, management recognize that for some time to come such global supply-demand balance and price fluctuations of mineral resources and energy will continuously have a material impact, positive or negative, on our operating results, financial condition and business. For further information regarding trends and prospects in this field, refer to the sections relating to the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Energy Segment in “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” Investment plans and cash flow from investing activities; and financial leverage Consistent with our Medium-Term Management Outlook announced in May 2006, we have been engaged in establishing a group-wide strategic business portfolio, by leveraging proactive investment activities in the four business areas of Mineral Resources and Energy; Global Marketing Networks, including steel products, chemicals and machinery; Infrastructure, including power generation; and Consumer Services, including outsourcing services and content businesses. In parallel, management monitors the progress of investment plans quarterly and addresses divestitures of existing assets in order to maintain an optimum portfolio structure and also to generate additional cash flows as a source for the above-mentioned investments. Mitsui is monitoring and managing a group-wide financial leverage seeking to secure an efficient return on equity as well as maintaining and improving credit ratings and financial stability in order to secure necessary capital resources for investments as well as to refinance our interest bearing debt. For further information regarding details of expenditures and our financial policy, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” * Operating Income Operating income is included in the measure of segment performance reviewed by the chief operating decision maker. Operating income is comprised of our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses and (c) provision for doubtful receivables, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. 75 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary of Operations for the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Principal developments in the economic environment that influenced our operations during the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 included the following: Operating Environment for the Year Ended March 31, 2009 During the first half of the current fiscal year, the United States economy continued to expand steadily supported by strong exports and by better-than-expected consumer spending boosted by the tax rebates made in spring that tended to mitigate the effects of the increases in the prices of oil and food products. The Asian economy also continued to show strong growth boosted by expanded domestic construction and capital investments as well as increases in exports, mainly in China, despite the fact that inflation in the region had risen due to a continued run-up in energy and food prices. However, in September what had begun in the summer of 2007 with market turmoil surrounding U.S. subprime mortgages turned into a financial tsunami engulfing the largest U.S. insurance company and triggering the largest U.S. bankruptcy and rapidly transformed into a full-blown global financial crisis in the fall of 2008. In the United States, the contraction in activity in 2009 is triggering a rapid demand destruction coupled with sharp declines in equity markets. Authorities have implemented various drastic plans for rehabilitating the financial sector as well as continued policy support to bolster domestic demand. Global economic activity has continued to decline ever since then, with advanced economies experiencing their sharpest declines in the post-war era, reflecting an intensification of the corrosive interplays between the financial crisis and real activity, notwithstanding continued policy efforts. In the Euro area, the decline in activity in 2009 reflects a sharp collapse in external demand, the impact of housing market corrections in some member states, and an intensification of financing constraints. Growth also plunged across a broad front of emerging and developing economies, as well as in low-income economies, reflecting the interaction of weakening external demand, tightening financial constraints, and plunging commodity prices. Emerging Asia is being hurt through its reliance on manufacturing exports. The region’s manufacturing activity has been particularly hurt by collapsing IT exports. Growth in China is also slowing from higher growth rates of the past years albeit domestic demand is being supported by strong policy stimulus. In Japan, the sharp fall in output reflects plunging net exports and business investment and faltering private consumption. The financial sector—though not at the epicenter of the crisis—is also suffering ill effects. The dramatic decline of export volumes which had been growing steadily, resulted in an unprecedented destocking, downward revisions of business investment plans and employment adjustment throughout nearly every industry. Responding to such a critical situation, the Japanese government implemented a policy stimulus and the Bank of Japan reduced the policy interest rate and purchased Japanese government bonds. Commodity markets too are at a crossroad. Prices in energy, metals and all other commodity markets fell sharply reflecting slower growth and an increase in risk aversion. Future oil price (WTI) reached the highest price ever of U.S.$147.27 in July 2008, and then fell sharply to U.S.$33 per barrel at one time in December. Japanese Yen appreciated against almost all currencies and even reached ¥87 against U.S.$1.00 at one point. Nikkei Stock Average continued to move downward amid the same downward trend in the global equity markets, and plunged to less than ¥7,000, which is its lowest daily price after the bubble era. The external factors influencing operating results and our businesses are 1) sharp curtailment in shipments for coal and iron ore triggered by the economic downturn despite contribution from large increases in annual contract 76 Table of Contents prices for the two commodities, 2) plunging oil prices, 3) lower sales and drop in prices of various merchandise as a result of rapid global demand destruction and unprecedented destocking throughout almost every value chain and 4) continued precipitation of equity markets all over the globe. Notwithstanding a significant downward revision to the forecast, downside risks continue to dominate. Yet, global financial and economic conditions could rebound faster than anticipated if policy measures are credibly strengthened. While exceptional uncertainty far exceeds that seen during typical downturns, the right policies could help remedy the “crisis of confidence”, providing a lift to spending and growth. In this regards, we intend to be cautiously optimistic. Operating Environment for the Year Ended March 31, 2008 The global economy continued to expand vigorously supported by generally sound fundamentals and strong momentum in the Asian economy, led by China, and resilient activities in Europe and Japan, despite increasing uncertainty about the outlook of the United States with concerns that financial market strains could deepen and trigger a more pronounced economic slowdown. Continued run-up of prices of internationally traded commodities such as metals and crude oil, as well as continued strong growth of domestic demand in emerging countries, including BRICs, for capital investment and consumption were the two major factors influencing the operating results and businesses of Mitsui and its subsidiaries. These factors particularly boosted operating results of our mineral resources and energy related activities and supported steady business performance in steel products, machinery & infrastructure and chemicals. On a regional basis, the business sentiment in the United States, which enjoyed moderate growth during the first half of the year as a result of healthy consumer spending, reflecting robust performance in the business sector and growth in real disposable income, deteriorated significantly in the second half, reflecting financial stress which erupted in August 2007 as the subprime mortgage market was derailed, leading to tightening of credit conditions, considerable deceleration of consumer spending due to sharp increases in the prices of crude oil and food products, as well as softening of the labor market. The European economy slowed down moderately as construction investments peaked out in the region. In Japan, exports of automotive, steel and chemical products to emerging economies drove a high level of industrial production. On the other hand, uncertainties increased in the corporate and household sectors reflecting a decline in construction investments caused by revision of the Japanese building standards regulation as well as rising prices of material costs and consumer goods including foodstuffs. Looking into financial and foreign exchange markets, the Federal Reserve Board of the United States (“FRB”) implemented a series of interest rate cuts to try to stabilize the financial market. In foreign exchange markets, the U.S. dollar continued to depreciate against most major currencies, and fell below ¥100/ U.S. dollar in March 2008, the lowest value in 13 years. Furthermore, stock markets worldwide saw falling share prices in the latter half of the fiscal year. Overview of the Financial Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2009 • Operating results The group posted consolidated net income of ¥177.6 billion, a sharp decline of ¥232.5 billion, or down 56.7%, from ¥410.1 billion for the corresponding previous year. Major developments during the two fiscal years were as follows; — Operating results during the first half of the current fiscal year were solid reflecting a continued broad-based surge in the emerging and developing economies. Following the banking crisis that erupted in mid-September 2008, the financial markets unraveled and took with them consumer confidence. The rapid demand destruction and unprecedented destocking throughout nearly every value chain resulted in lower sales volume and a sharp drop in prices of all merchandise which triggered a decline in net income of all segments excluding the Energy Segment and Asia Pacific 77 Table of Contents Segment compared with the previous fiscal year. The Energy Segment reported an increase in net income due to the time lag in consolidating their earnings into our operating results as well as the price formulas while the Asia Pacific Segment posted an increase reflecting the higher prices of coal and iron ore. — With the scale and scope of the current financial crisis taking the global economy into uncharted waters, the Group recognized additional impairment losses on unlisted securities, goodwill and long lived assets including real estate related losses in the Consumer Service & IT Segment and the Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment and impairment losses on goodwill and long lived assets in the Americas Segment, after reviewing business plans of relevant businesses in the three month period ended March 31, 2009. — Due to the sharp decline in equity markets, the Group recognized impairment losses of ¥117.4 billion including those of listed securities such as those of Mitsui Chemical held by the Chemical Segment, Nippon Steel Corporation held by the Iron & Steel Products Segment and Yamaha Motor held by the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. In addition, reflecting declines in listed shares of Sims Metal Management Limited (Australia) and Penske Automotive Group (United States), Inc., we recognized impairment losses in equity in earnings of associated companies-net for both companies. — Substantial one-off gains on sales of securities and divestiture in the previous year amounting to approximately ¥93 billion (after tax) were recorded. Those gains include sales of the Group’s stakes in mineral resources and energy businesses, such as Sesa Goa Limited (India), Sakhalin II in Russia, Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and EBM (Brazil)(*1), gains on sale of aircraft held by Tombo Aviation, Inc. (United States) as well as a gain on land sale in Europe in the automotive field. — Return-on-Equity for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 8.7%, a decline of 10.4 percentage points from 19.1% for the previous year. • Financial condition Total assets as of March 31, 2009 were ¥8.4 trillion, a decline of ¥1.1 trillion from ¥9.5 trillion as of March 31, 2008. With prices of virtually all merchandises including commodities plummeting from the three month period ended December 31, 2008, current assets declined by ¥0.6 trillion. Investments and plant, property and equipment (“PPE”) declined by ¥0.5 trillion compared to the previous fiscal year end. The decline was attributable to decreases in investment in foreign associated companies, in PPE held by foreign subsidiaries and in listed securities resulting from the appreciation of the Japanese Yen against major currencies and sharp decline in equity markets all over the world in the second half of the current fiscal year, partially offset by additional investment in Valepar S.A. (Brazil) and various capital expenditures for the expansions made by the Mineral & Metal Resources and the Energy segments. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2009 was ¥1.9 trillion, a decline of ¥0.3 trillion from ¥2.2 trillion as of March 31, 2008, due to the stronger Japanese Yen and lower equity prices offset by a slight increase in retained earnings. Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (“Net DER”)(*2) as of March, 2009 was 1.34 times, an increase of 0.07 point from 1.27 times as of March 31, 2008. • Cash flows As operating income slightly increased to ¥394.7 billion and cash inflow from the collection of trade receivables as well as changes in other operating assets and liabilities contributed positively, net cash (*1) Empreendimentos Brasileiros de Mineração S.A. (*2) Net DER is comprised of “net interest bearing debt” divided by shareholders’ equity. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 78 Table of Contents provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥582.7 billion. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March, 2009 was ¥290.9 billion due mainly to an additional investment in Valepar S.A., and other expansion related expenditures for natural resources in the Mineral & Metal Resources and the Energy Segments. As a result, free cash flow (*3) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was net inflow of ¥291.8 billion. Overview of the Financial Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2008 • Operating results — We recorded consolidated net income of ¥410.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, a significant increase of ¥108.6 billion, or 36.0%, from ¥301.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In regards to the individual segments, the Mineral & Metal Resources and the Energy businesses made outstanding performances with increases of ¥78.7 billion and ¥48.4 billion, respectively, reflecting substantial one-off gains on divestitures such as Sesa Goa Limited in India and Sakhalin II in Russia as well as increases in energy equity production and mineral resource prices. The Iron & Steel Products, the Chemicals and the Machinery and Infrastructure Projects businesses continued to post robust results, and the Foods & Retail business, which had recorded significant impairment losses in the previous years, improved its performance by ¥22.8 billion with restructuring efforts paying off. — The Americas recorded a downturn by ¥12.6 billion from write downs on inventories in the residential home businesses and a slowdown in its businesses in the United States, triggered by the subprime mortgage issues. In addition, several business units at the headquarters of Mitsui, including the Automotive and the Financial Markets businesses, recorded write downs on domestic listed securities. • Financial condition Total assets as of March 31, 2008 were ¥9.5 trillion, a decline of ¥0.3 trillion from ¥9.8 trillion as of March 31, 2007. Despite active investing activities mainly at the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects, the Mineral & Metal Resources, the Energy and the Americas segments combined total of investments and plants, property and equipment (“PPE”) declined by ¥0.2 trillion due to: — a partial divestiture of our stake in the Sakhalin II project by ¥0.2 trillion; and — the impact from a decline in the domestic stock market and appreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in net ¥0.2 trillion decline in combined sum of unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and foreign currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As of March 31, 2008, shareholders’ equity was ¥2.2 trillion as a result of current year earnings, and Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (“Net DER”) was 1.27 times, a decline of 0.20 point from 1.47 times as of March 31, 2007. Return on Equity (“ROE”) during the period on an annualized basis is computed as 19.1%. • Cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥415.8 billion, an increase of ¥176.5 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting steady growth in operating income. Net cash used by investing activities was ¥104.8 billion, reflecting the above-mentioned new investments and expansion projects largely offset by the material divestitures of interests in Sakhalin II project, Sesa Goa Ltd., and other assets. (*3) Free cash flow is sum of net cash provided/(used) by operating activities and net cash provided/(used) by investing activities. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” 79 Table of Contents Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Fluctuation on Operating Results for 2009 Total sum of net income for the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 reported by overseas subsidiaries and associated companies were ¥254.0 billion and ¥306.9 billion, respectively. These companies principally use U.S. dollars, Australian dollars and Brazilian real as functional currency in their reporting. The average U.S. dollar–Japanese yen exchange rate during the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥100.66 = U.S.$1, representing Japanese yen appreciation of ¥13.14, or 11.5%, compared to the average rate during the year ended March 31, 2008 of ¥113.80 = U.S.$1. As of March 31, 2009, the U.S. dollar–Japanese yen exchange rate was ¥98.23 = U.S.$1. a) Japanese yen denominated impact against the U.S. dollar, Australian dollar and Brazilian real We conducted simplified estimation for the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on net income for the year ending March 2010. We aggregated a total forecast net income in the business plans of these companies covering the year ending March 2010 according to their functional currencies. Firstly, we aggregated Australian dollar and Brazilian real denominated forecast net income of those companies using two currencies as functional currency, and secondly we aggregated the rest of net income at overseas subsidiaries and associated companies as U.S. dollar equivalent amount. We conduct a sensitivity analysis on foreign currency fluctuation towards 3 categories of aggregated net income. For example, yen appreciation by ¥1 against U.S.$1 would have the net effect of reducing net income by approximately ¥0.3 billion. Specifically, for the net income of those companies using Australian dollar and Brazilian real as functional currency, yen appreciation by ¥1 against Australian $1 and Brazilian R$1 would have the net effect of reducing net income by approximately ¥1.3 billion and ¥0.2 billion, respectively. b) Currency exchange rate risk between revenues from U.S. dollar denominated contract and costs denominated in Australian dollar and Brazilian real Sum of net income from those companies using Australian dollar and Brazilian real as functional currency is getting significant, reflecting increasing income in mineral resources and energy producing operations. Net income of those mineral resources and energy producing companies are impacted by the currency fluctuation between U.S. dollar as a contractual currency of sales contracts and the two currencies as functional currency, affecting their Australian dollar or Brazilian real denominated revenues. We should pay attention to this in addition to the impact which is discussed in the above a). Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results for the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Revenues In accordance with U.S. GAAP, revenues are reported based on the gross amount billed to a customer or on the net amount retained (that is, the amount billed to a customer less the amount paid to a supplier) in the following manner. • Revenues are reported based on gross amounts for transactions where we have the related risks and rewards of ownership such as transactions mainly where we are the primary obligor in the arrangement and/or assume general inventory risk without any significant mitigation of our risk level. • Revenues are reported based on net amounts where we assume a low degree of related risks and rewards, effectively acting as an agent for the applicable products or services. A typical example of reporting revenues based on net amounts is a transaction where we receive a commission or fee at a fixed rate based on transaction volume or amount. We classified our revenues into sales of products, sales of services and other sales with the corresponding costs of revenues. 80 Table of Contents The table below provides these three categories of revenues by products in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” in Note 17, “SEGMENT INFORMATION.”(*) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2009 2008 Change Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Iron and Steel ¥ 800.6 ¥ 64.5 ¥ 0.5 ¥ 865.6 ¥ 730.4 ¥ 70.6 ¥ 0.3 ¥ 801.3 ¥ 70.2 ¥ (6.1 ) ¥ 0.2 ¥ 64.3 Non-Ferrous Metals 165.0 7.3 25.2 197.5 56.8 9.3 13.6 79.7 108.2 (2.0 ) 11.6 117.8 Machinery 226.7 97.5 70.0 394.2 276.0 123.6 78.6 478.2 (49.3 ) (26.1 ) (8.6 ) (84.0 ) Electronics & Information 47.1 85.8 0.9 133.8 77.4 100.8 4.1 182.3 (30.3 ) (15.0 ) (3.2 ) (48.5 ) Chemicals 1,333.0 75.5 6.4 1,414.9 1,207.5 104.2 6.9 1,318.6 125.5 (28.7 ) (0.5 ) 96.3 Energy 1,688.2 6.5 24.6 1,719.3 1,992.1 6.9 18.7 2,017.7 (303.9 ) (0.4 ) 5.9 (298.4 ) Foods 567.5 43.1 0.6 611.2 533.2 38.3 1.1 572.6 34.3 4.8 (0.5 ) 38.6 Textiles 11.8 14.6 2.0 28.4 14.7 19.5 4.0 38.2 (2.9 ) (4.9 ) (2.0 ) (9.8 ) General Merchandise 15.0 4.4 0.0 19.4 33.8 6.7 0.0 40.5 (18.8 ) (2.3 ) 0.0 (21.1 ) Property and Service Business 26.3 80.3 44.3 150.9 87.9 73.8 48.1 209.8 (61.6 ) 6.5 (3.8 ) (58.9 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 4,881.2 ¥ 479.5 ¥ 174.5 ¥ 5,535.2 ¥ 5,009.8 ¥ 553.7 ¥ 175.4 ¥ 5,738.9 ¥ (128.6 ) ¥ (74.2 ) ¥ (0.9 ) ¥ (203.7 ) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2008 2007 Change Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Sales ofProducts Sales ofServices OtherSales Total Iron and Steel ¥ 730.4 ¥ 70.6 ¥ 0.3 ¥ 801.3 ¥ 495.2 ¥ 71.5 ¥ 0.2 ¥ 566.9 ¥ 235.2 ¥ (0.9 ) ¥ 0.1 ¥ 234.4 Non-Ferrous Metals 56.8 9.3 13.6 79.7 71.2 9.0 19.7 99.9 (14.4 ) 0.3 (6.1 ) (20.2 ) Machinery 276.0 123.6 78.6 478.2 253.1 106.0 69.5 428.6 22.9 17.6 9.1 49.6 Electronics & Information 77.4 100.8 4.1 182.3 74.4 104.4 0.0 178.8 3.0 (3.6 ) 4.1 3.5 Chemicals 1,207.5 104.2 6.9 1,318.6 1,038.9 98.4 9.3 1,146.6 168.6 5.8 (2.4 ) 172.0 Energy 1,992.1 6.9 18.7 2,017.7 1,617.7 7.1 8.5 1,633.3 374.4 (0.2 ) 10.2 384.4 Foods 533.2 38.3 1.1 572.6 417.2 49.3 0.5 467.0 116.0 (11.0 ) 0.6 105.6 Textiles 14.7 19.5 4.0 38.2 17.1 21.2 1.5 39.8 (2.4 ) (1.7 ) 2.5 (1.6 ) General Merchandise 33.8 6.7 0.0 40.5 42.3 8.0 0.0 50.3 (8.5 ) (1.3 ) 0.0 (9.8 ) Property and Service Business 87.9 73.8 48.1 209.8 63.3 81.1 38.0 182.4 24.6 (7.3 ) 10.1 27.4 Consolidated Total ¥ 5,009.8 ¥ 553.7 ¥ 175.4 ¥ 5,738.9 ¥ 4,090.4 ¥ 556.0 ¥ 147.2 ¥ 4,793.6 ¥ 919.4 ¥ (2.3 ) ¥ 28.2 ¥ 945.3 Sales of Products Sales of products include the following four types of transactions: • the sale of products as a principal in the transactions, such as crude oil and petroleum products, petrochemical products and steel products; • the sale of manufactured products at our manufacturing subsidiaries such as feed additives by Novus International, Inc. (United States) and tea leaves by Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan); • the sale of natural resources from iron ore and coal mining activities and oil and gas producing activities; and • the development and sale of real estate. (*) Revenues reported in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” are classified by similarity of products as required by U.S. GAAP, and are not intended to represent classification by operating segment. As an example, revenues of “Chemicals” in “PRODUCT INFORMATION” include not only those reported in the Chemical Segment but also revenues related to various chemical businesses reported in other operating segments such as the Americas Segment. To differentiate between classification by product and classification by operating segment, classification by product is italicized in this “Revenues” section and “Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues” section. 81 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 For the year ended March 31, 2009, revenues from the sales of products were ¥4,881.2 billion, a decline of ¥128.6 billion, or 2.6%, from ¥5,009.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Major factors by product were as follows: • Revenues from Energy were ¥1,688.2 billion, a decline of ¥303.9 billion from ¥1,992.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Crude oil and petroleum products sales in international markets and domestic petroleum products and liquefied petroleum gas sales comprised the major part of the revenues from Energy. Revenues from sales of crude oil and petroleum products decreased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) by ¥159.8 billion. Regarding price trends of oil and gas for the year ended March 31, 2009, refer to the discussion under “Energy Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” • Revenues from Chemicals were ¥1,333.0 billion, an increase of ¥125.5 billion from ¥1,207.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. In petrochemical products business, there was a decline in both product prices and sales volume in general for the second half of the fiscal year due to the credit crunch and rapidly deteriorating economic activities, however, Novus International Inc. reported an increase in revenue reflecting higher product prices and increase in sales volume supported by a strong global demand for animal feed additives. Agricultural business remains robust and the favorable market conditions and increase in sales volume for ammonia, sulfur and fertilizers for the first half of the fiscal year has also contributed to the increase in revenue. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, revenues from the sales of products were ¥5,009.8 billion, an increase of ¥919.4 billion, or 22.5%, from ¥4,090.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major factors by product were as follows: • Revenues from Energy were ¥1,992.1 billion, an increase of ¥374.4 billion from ¥1,617.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Crude oil and petroleum products sales in international markets and domestic petroleum products and liquefied petroleum gas sales comprised the major part of the revenues from Energy. Revenues from sales of petroleum products increased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) by ¥187.7 billion. There was a new contribution of ¥79.3 billion from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan)(*) which was newly consolidated as a subsidiary during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. Regarding price trends of oil and gas for the year ended March 31, 2008, refer to the discussion under “Energy Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” • Revenues from Iron and Steel were ¥730.4 billion, an increase of ¥235.2 billion from ¥495.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase was attributable to rising prices in iron ore and steel scrap as well as robust steel products sales, particularly in Asia. Also there was a new contribution from Steel Technologies, Inc. (United States) of ¥119.9 billion following our acquisition in June 2007. Regarding price trends of iron ore for the year ended March 31, 2008, please refer to the discussion under “Mineral & Metal resources Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” • Revenues from Chemicals were ¥1,207.5 billion, an increase of ¥168.6 billion from ¥1,038.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, primarily due to increased sales of basic petrochemicals and petrochemical intermediates of ¥118.3 billion at Mitsui, reflecting higher prices of those products as a result of rising crude oil prices. (*) In March 2007, Mitsui acquired an additional 3% stake in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., formerly an associated company, increasing its voting interest in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. to 50.3% and re-classifying Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. as a subsidiary of Mitsui. 82 Table of Contents • Revenues from Foods were ¥533.2 billion, an increase of ¥116.0 billion from ¥417.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, mainly due to increases of ¥74.1 billion in Mitsui’s sales of grain and feedstuff, reflecting increased corn and soybean prices and active commodity markets. Sales of Services Sales of services include the revenues from trading margins (for our intermediary service) and commissions. For example: • As the most typical case of our services, for back-to-back sales and purchase transactions of products, we record the net amount of sale and purchase prices (namely, margin for our intermediary service) as revenues. • We provide various services such as logistics and warehouse services, information and communication services and technical support. We also facilitate arrangement of the contracts between manufacturers and customers and deliveries of the products between suppliers and customers. In these cases, the billed amounts for these services are recognized as revenues. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 For the year ended March 31, 2009, revenues from the sales of services were ¥479.5 billion, a decline of ¥74.2 billion, or 13.4%, from ¥553.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Chemicals declined by ¥28.7 billion to ¥75.5 billion from ¥104.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Machinery declined by ¥26.1 billion to ¥97.5 billion from ¥123.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Electronics & Information declined by ¥15.0 billion to ¥85.8 billion from ¥100.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The decrease at Electronics & Information is mainly due to reclassification of T-Gaia Corporation from subsidiary to associated company, which resulted in a decline of ¥14.6 billion. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, revenues from the sales of services were ¥553.7 billion, a decline of ¥2.3 billion, 0.4%, from ¥556.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. While Machinery increased by ¥17.6 billion to ¥123.6 billion from ¥106.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, Foods declined by ¥11.0 billion to ¥38.3 billion from ¥49.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 and Property and Service Business declined by ¥7.3 billion to ¥73.8 billion from ¥81.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Other Sales Other sales principally include the revenues from: • derivative commodity instruments and derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes (by product category mainly in Energy and Non Ferrous Metals); • the revenues from leasing activities of real estate, rolling stock, ocean transport vessels and machinery equipment (by product category mainly in Property and Service Business and Machinery); and • the revenues from external consumer financing (by product category mainly in Machinery). Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 For the year ended March 31, 2009, revenues from other sales were ¥174.5 billion, a decline of ¥0.9 billion, 0.5%, from ¥175.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, which was primarily attributable to the following factors: • Derivative trading revenues were ¥50.2 billion, an increase of ¥13.5 billion from the ¥36.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The increase includes a profit corresponding to a foreign exchange loss of ¥13.6 billion related to commodity trading business posted in other expense-net. 83 Table of Contents • Leasing revenues were ¥82.6 billion, a decline of ¥7.7 billion from the ¥90.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008 due to less demand for and overhaul of rolling stock at leasing subsidiaries in North America and Europe. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, revenues from other sales were ¥175.4 billion, an increase of ¥28.2 billion, 19.2%, from ¥147.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, which was primarily attributable to the following factors: • Derivative trading revenues were ¥36.7 billion, an increase of ¥3.6 billion from the ¥33.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase was mainly attributable to a reversal effect from naphtha trading loss for the year ended March 31, 2007 at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore), however, the improvement was partly offset by a decrease in commodity derivatives trading revenues for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Leasing revenues were ¥90.3 billion, an increase of ¥7.5 billion from the ¥82.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 due to a full-year contribution from a rolling stock leasing subsidiary MRCE Dispolok Gmbh (Germany) which was acquired in October 2006. • P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) increased its revenue by ¥4.9 billion reflecting strong business performance in the motorcycle retail finance industry in Indonesia. Gross Profit Classified by Category of Revenues Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change between2009 and 2008 Change between2008 and 2007 2009 2008 2007 GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio GrossProfit GPRatio Gross Profit from Sales of Products ¥ 597.7 12.2 % ¥ 497.3 9.9 % ¥ 393.6 9.6 % ¥ 100.4 2.3 % ¥ 103.7 0.3 % Gross Profit from Sales of Services 315.5 65.8 % 397.6 71.8 % 397.5 71.5 (82.1 ) (6.0 )% 0.1 0.3 % Gross Profit from Other Sales 103.1 59.1 % 93.2 53.1 % 75.2 51.1 9.9 6.0 % 18.0 2.0 % Total ¥ 1,016.3 18.4 % ¥ 988.1 17.2 % ¥ 866.3 18.1 % ¥ 28.2 1.2 % ¥ 121.8 (0.9 )% Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 For the year ended March 31, 2009, gross profit was ¥1,016.3 billion, an increase of ¥28.2 billion, or 2.9%, from ¥988.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The Gross Profit ratio (“GP ratio”), or ratio of gross profit divided by revenues, for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 18.4%, an increase of 1.2 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. For the year ended March 31, 2009, gross profit from sales of products was ¥597.7 billion, an increase of ¥100.4 billion from ¥497.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Gross profit from Iron and Steel was ¥182.8 billion, an increase of ¥76.7 billion from ¥106.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Reflecting a significant increase in coal and iron ore prices, Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd (Australia) and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd (Australia) reported increases of ¥46.6 billion and ¥23.3 billion, respectively. Gross profit from Chemical was ¥92.3 billion, an increase of ¥31.8 billion from ¥60.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Novus International Inc. recorded an increase of ¥27.4 billion reflecting higher product prices and increase in sales volume supported by a strong demand for animal feed additives. Gross profit from Energy was ¥222.4 billion, a slight increase of ¥3.7 billion from ¥218.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd reported an increase of ¥14.3 billion reflecting increase in sales volume and higher oil prices. Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd also contributed to the increase due to increased sales volume resulting from the merger. 84 Table of Contents These contributions were partly offset by a decline of ¥22.7 billion reported by Mittwell Energy Resourses Pty., Ltd due to a decline of shipments and an increase in condensate cost as a result of the revision of the purchase price. The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 12.2%, an improvement of 2.3 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. This 2.3 percentage point improvement was attributable to the substantial increase in gross profit (20.2% increase), particularly in Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd (Australia) of Iron and Steel reflecting a significant increase in coal prices. Revenues from sales of petroleum products decreased at Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) reflecting declines in the market prices, however, lower revenues do not necessarily result in decline in gross profit because its profit-earning opportunities derive from oil price fluctuations. For the year ended March 31, 2009, gross profit from sales of services was ¥315.5 billion, a decline of ¥82.1 billion from ¥397.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. As illustrated by the table in “three categories of revenues by products”—“Sales of Services”, Chemicals, Iron and Steel and Machinery recorded substantial declines. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 65.8%, a decline of 6.0 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. For the year ended March 31, 2009, gross profit from other sales was ¥103.1 billion, an increase of ¥9.9 billion from ¥93.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The major reason was gross profit corresponding to a foreign exchange loss of ¥13.6 billion related to commodity trading business posted in other expense-net. The GP ratio from other sales for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 59.1%, an increase of 6.0 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit was ¥988.1 billion, an increase of ¥121.8 billion, or 14.1%, from ¥866.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The Gross Profit ratio (“GP ratio”), or ratio of gross profit divided by revenues, for the year ended March 31, 2008 was 17.2%, a decrease of 0.9 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit from sales of products was ¥497.3 billion, an increase of ¥103.7 billion from ¥393.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Gross profit from Energy was ¥218.7 billion, a significant increase of ¥91.1 billion from ¥127.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, due to full year contributions of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. by ¥58.7 billion which was newly consolidated as a subsidiary during the 4th quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, and Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited which commenced a commercial production of the Enfield oil field by ¥26.4 billion. Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) and Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) recorded increases reflecting higher oil prices. On the other hand, Westport Petroleum, Inc. (United States) recorded a ¥12.4 billion decrease from sales of petroleum products. The GP ratio from sales of products for the year ended March 31, 2008 was 9.9%, an improvement of 0.3 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. This 0.3 percentage point improvement was attributable to the higher growth in gross profit (26.3% increase) than growth in revenues (22.5% increase), particularly in oil and gas producing activities of Energy reflecting the rising sales prices. For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit from sales of services was ¥397.6 billion, an increase of ¥0.1 billion from ¥397.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. As illustrated by the table in “three categories of revenues by products”—“Sales of Services”, increases in revenues from sales of services of Machinery were largely offset by decreases in those of Electronics & Information and Foods. The GP ratio from sales of services for the year ended March 31, 2008 was 71.8%, an increase of 0.3 percentage points compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. 85 Table of Contents For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit from other sales was ¥93.2 billion, an increase of ¥18.0 billion from ¥75.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The major reasons were the same as described in “Revenues—Other Sales” above. While GP ratio in all the three categories of revenue increased, the overall GP ratio decreased by 0.9%. This is due to the change in the sales mix wherein the percentage of sales from services, which has considerably higher GP ratio as compared to products and others, has reduced from 45.8% in 2007 to 40.2% in 2008. Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment For detailed discussion, see “Operating Results by Operating Segment.” A summary of the increase in gross profit classified by operating segment is provided below. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 For the year ended March 31, 2009 consolidated total gross profit was ¥1,016.3 billion, an increase of ¥28.2 billion, or 2.9%, from ¥988.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008 as a result of the following: • The Energy Segment reported an increase of ¥52.7 billion in gross profit. This increase is attributable to solid performance by the oil & gas producing businesses, reflecting continued run-up in prices and additional equity production, as well as contribution of ¥46.6 billion made by Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reflecting a significant increase in coal prices. • The Mineral & Metal Resources Segment also reported an increase of ¥23.4 billion in gross profit. Reflecting higher iron ore prices, Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reported increases of ¥23.3 billion and ¥2.0 billion, respectively. • The Americas Segment reported an increase of ¥37.5 billion in gross profit. Supported by strong demand as well as increased price of animal feed additives, Novus International Inc. (United States) reported an increase of ¥27.4 billion. Backed by strong demand for tubular pipes for oil and gas industry, Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. (United States) also contributed to the increase in gross profit. • Consumer Service & IT Segment reported a decline of ¥43.0 billion, due to a loss on write-down of inventories in the domestic residential home business and weak results from almost all the domestic consumer related businesses. In addition, reclassification of T-Gaia Corporation from subsidiary to associated company through merger with MS Communications Co., Ltd. in the three month period ended December 31, 2008, resulted in a decline of ¥14.6 billion in gross profit. • Due to the financial turmoil which intensified after last autumn, the Chemical Segment, the Iron & Steel Products Segment and the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment recorded substantial declines in gross profit attributable to declines in sales volumes as well as margins, which offset the increased gross profits for the first half of the current fiscal year reflecting the positive economic circumstances in the emerging countries. 86 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008 consolidated total gross profit was ¥988.1 billion, an increase of ¥121.8 billion, or 14.1%, from ¥866.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 as a result of the following: • The Energy Segment recorded an increase of ¥95.4 billion compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, making up 78% of the consolidated total increase, mainly attributable to contributions from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. and the Enfield oil field. These contributions were partly offset by a decline in gross profit at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reflecting a lower coal price, the Australian dollar appreciation against the U.S. dollar and a cost increase related to various operational troubles at its mining expansion project. • The Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment recorded an increase of ¥26.1 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007, primarily reflecting solid performance at a motorcycle retail finance subsidiary, P.T.Bussan Auto Finance, and other automotive subsidiaries, ocean vessels and rolling stock leasing subsidiaries as well as contribution from a newly acquired machine tools sales subsidiary Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States). Similarly, the Chemical Segment and the Iron & Steel products Segment reported increases of ¥7.2 billion reflecting favorable methanol and ammonia market conditions and ¥3.6 billion reflecting firm results in steel tubular products for energy sector as well as construction material and tubular products to Asian market, respectively. • The Mineral & Metal Resources Segment recorded a decline of ¥15.2 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007, mainly due to divestiture of Sesa Goa Limited (India)(*). This negative impact was partly offset by an increase of gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. reflecting higher prices of iron ore. • The Consumer Service & IT Segment and the Americas Segment recorded declines from the year ended March 31, 2007. The decline at the Consumer Service & IT Segment was attributable to business reorganization through withdrawals from or divestitures of mainly domestic businesses. In the Americas Segment for the year ended March 31, 2008, MBK Real Estate LLC. (United States), which engages in the development and sale of residential homes in the West Coast market, recorded a sharp fall in sales and a loss from write-downs on inventories reflecting deterioration in the residential market triggered by the subprime mortgage problems of the United States. Moreover, Westport Petroleum Inc. decreased its profit from oil products trading and so did steel products subsidiaries engaged in the steel products business mainly in oil tubular products reflecting lower margins. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Classified by Category of Expenses Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥602.1 billion, a decline of ¥3.1 billion or 0.5% from ¥605.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. (*) As a result of Mitsui’s divestiture of Sesa Goa, the operating results of Sesa Goa for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 are presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect in our statements of consolidated income). However, in this “Gross Profit Classified by Operating Segment”, operating results of the company are presented and discussed according to line items of the consolidated statements of income. 87 Table of Contents The table below provides a breakdown of selling, general and administrative expenses used for our internal review for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Personnel ¥ 294.1 ¥ 294.5 ¥ 283.3 ¥ (0.4 ) ¥ 11.2 Welfare 12.2 12.2 10.3 0.0 1.9 Travel 33.3 35.1 32.0 (1.8 ) 3.1 Entertainment 10.5 10.8 10.5 (0.3 ) 0.3 Communication 49.0 48.5 43.9 0.5 4.6 Rent 20.9 20.6 18.1 0.3 2.5 Depreciation 15.6 15.1 13.9 0.5 1.2 Fees and Taxes 9.8 11.6 10.6 (1.8 ) 1.0 Others 156.7 156.8 149.0 (0.1 ) 7.8 Total ¥ 602.1 ¥ 605.2 ¥ 571.6 ¥ (3.1 ) ¥ 33.6 • Personnel expenses were ¥294.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2009, a decline of ¥0.4 billion from the year ended March 31, 2008. This nominal decline was mainly attributable to a decline related to the reclassification of T-Gaia Corporation from subsidiary to associated company offset by an increase resulting from Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan)’s merger with Marubeni Liquefied Gas Corporation (Japan) and increased sales volume at Novus International, Inc. • Travel expenses were ¥33.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2009, a decline of ¥1.8 billion from the year ended March 31, 2008. This decline resulted from the reclassification of T-Gaia Corporation from subsidiary to associated company. Fees and Taxes were ¥9.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2009, a decline of ¥1.8 billion from the year ended March 31, 2008. This was mainly attributable to a decline in enterprise tax expense at Mitsui. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥605.2 billion, an increase of ¥33.6 billion or 5.9% from ¥571.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Personnel expenses were ¥294.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, an increase of ¥11.2 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007. This was mainly attributable to acquisitions of subsidiaries such as Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. in the Energy Segment and Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States) and Steel Technologies, Inc. in the Americas segment. • Other remaining items in selling, general and administrative expenses increased showing similar patterns as personnel expenses. 88 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Classified by Operating Segment The table below provides selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 by operating segment. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 34.5 ¥ 35.7 ¥ 33.1 ¥ (1.2 ) ¥ 2.6 Mineral & Metal Resources 15.2 16.6 19.8 (1.4 ) (3.2 ) Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 82.9 82.4 75.3 0.5 7.1 Chemical 51.9 58.0 58.1 (6.1 ) (0.1 ) Energy 57.8 46.2 38.3 11.6 7.9 Foods & Retail 63.7 65.1 69.6 (1.4 ) (4.5 ) Consumer Service & IT 83.9 98.4 109.4 (14.5 ) (11.0 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 34.5 32.9 35.9 1.6 (3.0 ) Americas 72.8 70.3 55.1 2.5 15.2 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 24.0 24.9 22.4 (0.9 ) 2.5 Asia Pacific 27.5 25.3 21.2 2.2 4.1 Total 548.7 555.8 538.2 (7.1 ) 17.6 All Other 5.8 7.2 8.5 (1.4 ) (1.3 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 47.6 42.2 24.9 5.4 17.3 Consolidated Total ¥ 602.1 ¥ 605.2 ¥ 571.6 ¥ (3.1 ) ¥ 33.6 Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 The Consumer Service & IT Segment and the Chemical Segments reported declines of ¥14.5 billion and ¥6.1 billion, respectively. These declines are mainly attributable to the reclassifications from subsidiaries to associated companies such as T-Gaia Corporation. The Energy Segment reported an increase of ¥11.6 billion attributable to Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan), which merged with Marubeni Liquefied Gas Corporation (Japan). Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 As illustrated by the above table, selling, general and administrative expenses increased mainly at segments such as the Machinery & Infrastructure, the Americas and the Energy by ¥7.1 billion, ¥15.2 billion and ¥7.9 billion, respectively. The increase at the Machinery & Infrastructure was mainly attributable to business expansions of P.T. Bussan Auto Finance and Mitsui Automotive CIS Investment B.V. (Netherlands). The increases at the Americas and the Energy was mainly attributable to acquisitions of subsidiaries such as Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. in the Energy Segment and Ellison Technologies Inc. and Steel Technologies, Inc. in the Americas segment. On the other hand, expenses at the Consumer Service & IT Segment and the Foods & Retail Segment declined as a result of business reorganizations including exit and disposal of domestic businesses. With regard to the Energy Segment and the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, they have relatively small numbers of employees and little correlation between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses compared to other operating segments such as the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and the Consumer Service & IT Segment. See “Item 6.D. Employees” for further details of numbers of employees. 89 Table of Contents Provision for Doubtful Receivables Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥19.5 billion, an increase of ¥11.4 billion, or 140.7%, from ¥8.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting the tightening of credit sparked by the intensifying financial turmoil. Provisions for both periods consisted of an accumulation of reserves for individually small receivables, including those of P.T. Bussan Auto Finance. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Provision for doubtful receivables for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥8.1 billion, a decline of ¥3.8 billion, or 31.9%, from ¥11.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Provisions for the year ended March 31, 2008 consisted of a number of individually small receivables. For the year ended March 31, 2007, major factors were a new provision for an overseas oil exploration company, an increase in the provision for motorcycle retail finance at P.T. Bussan Auto Finance reflecting its expanding operations and an increase in the provision at Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio (Brazil). Interest Income and Interest Expense Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥40.0 billion, a decline of ¥17.3 billion, or 30.2%, from ¥57.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Interest expense was ¥75.0 billion, a decline of ¥31.2 billion, or 29.4%, from ¥106.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income was ¥35.0 billion, a decline of ¥13.9 billion from ¥48.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Interest expense for the Sakhalin II project declined by ¥4.6 billion as a result of declines in U.S dollar interest rates. • Mitsui recorded a ¥1.5 billion increase in interest expense, net of interest income. • Reflecting lower U.S. dollar interest rates, interest expense at overseas subsidiaries declined by ¥11.3 billion, out of which a ¥7.6 billion decline was attributable to the Americas Segment. In general, interest income tends to show similar patterns of fluctuations as interest expense. We provide loans and deferred payment facilities, which generate interest income, by funding our borrowings from financial institutions. Usually, both interest expense and interest income have the same interest rate type, floating or fixed. Accordingly, most fluctuations in interest income are offset by corresponding fluctuations in interest expense. With respect to interest rate swaps employed to manage interest rate risk exposure, see “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Sources.” Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2009 regarding the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, in which we have borrowings, were as follows: • Following the reduction in the policy interest rate by the Bank of Japan twice in October and December 2008 the Bank of Japan purchased CP and corporate bonds from the market as a further response of easing monetary policy. As a result, policy interest rate became close to zero percent, but reflecting turmoil in the financial and capital markets, spreads implied in the borrowing rates for the companies remained high. Market interest rate (the average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 0.85% on par with 0.87% for the year ended March 31, 2008. On the other hand, the average yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.45% for the year ended March 31, 2009, down from 1.59% during the year 90 Table of Contents ended March 31, 2008 supported by the aforementioned easing monetary policy although there were upward pressures on rate from the expectation of the economic rebound as well as concerns on supply-demand imbalance of Government Bonds after the beginning of the current year. • The FRB gradually lowered the Federal Funds target rate to 0-0.25% in December 2008 in response to stabilizing the financial market following the sub-prime mortgage crisis. This is the first time the FRB had virtually taken zero interest rate policy in its history. The FRB provided enough liquidity to the interbank markets and implemented additional monetary easing measures including purchases of agency debt and mortgage-backed securities to provide support to the mortgage and housing markets. However, risk spread implied in the interest rates remained high reflecting the uncertainties in the market including bankruptcy risk of the major automobile companies in the U.S. As a result, the average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2009 was 2.36%, down from the average of 4.66% during the year ended March 31, 2008. For information regarding development of our investment plans and financial policies, refer to “B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Interest income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥57.3 billion, an increase of ¥7.5 billion, or 15.1%, from ¥49.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Interest expense was ¥106.2 billion, an increase of ¥13.7 billion, or 14.8%, from ¥92.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. As a result, interest expense, net of interest income, was ¥48.9 billion, an increase of ¥6.2 billion, or 14.5%, from ¥42.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. A breakdown of the principal changes for the year ended March 31, 2008 is as follows: • Interest expense for the Sakhalin II project declined by ¥7.2 billion as a result of the transfer of our 50% stake in the project and subsequent decline in related interest bearing debt. • Mitsui recorded a ¥5.5 billion increase in interest expense, net of interest income, reflecting higher Japanese yen interest rates. • Reflecting increased interest bearing debt used to fund various investments, interest expense at overseas subsidiaries increased by ¥6.6 billion, out of which a ¥5.6 billion increase was attributable to the Americas Segment. Interest rate trends for the year ended March 31, 2008 regarding the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, in which we have borrowings, were as follows: • The Bank of Japan raised the policy interest rate in February 2007 but kept policy interest rates on hold thereafter. Reflecting steady growth of the Japanese economy in the first half of the year market interest rate ( the average of the month-end Japanese yen three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)) for the year ended March 31, 2008 rose to 0.87% from 0.45% for the year ended March 31, 2007. On the other hand, the average yield rate on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds was 1.59% for the year ended March 31, 2008, down from 1.75% during the year ended March 31, 2007. • The FRB raised the Federal Funds target rate to 5.25% in June 2006 and kept the rate level thereafter. However, it gradually lowered the rate from September 2007 in response to a concern about economic slowdown triggered by the sub-prime mortgage crisis, to 2.25% in March 2008, showing its attitude to provide an actual money rate of zero. The FRB then lowered the rate to 2.0% in April 2008. The average of the month-end U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR during the year ended March 31, 2008 was 4.66%, down from the average of 5.35% during the year ended March 31, 2007. For information regarding development of our investment plans and financial policies, refer to “B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 91 Table of Contents Dividend Income Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥71.9 billion, an increase of ¥21.8 billion, or 43.5%, from ¥50.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar, Oman and Equatorial Guinea were ¥48.9 billion, an increase of ¥24.9 billion from the year ended March 31, 2008. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Dividend income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥50.1 billion, an increase of ¥0.9 billion, or 1.8%, from ¥49.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman amounted to ¥23.4 billion, a decline of ¥3.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2007, which was offset by increased dividends from other investees including INPEX Holdings Inc. held by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. Gains on Sales of Securities—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥33.2 billion, a decline of ¥59.1 billion, or 64.0%, from ¥92.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. While we recorded gains of ¥11.9 billion on sale of a trust beneficiary right with respect to Shiodome building, ¥6.7 billion on the sale of our shareholding in Kyushu Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and ¥4.0 billion on the sale of our share in T-Gaia Corporation (former Telepark Corp.) (Japan) through T-Gaia’s share buy-back program and its merger with MS Communications Co., Ltd. (Japan) for the year ended March 31, 2009, we posted substantial gains for the year ended March 31, 2008, as a result of several large scale divestitures such as the sale of a part of our stake in the Sakhalin II project and our whole stake in EBM in Brazil. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gain on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥92.3 billion, a substantial increase of ¥33.5 billion, or 57.0%, from ¥58.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Since the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui continuously conducted scrutiny on whole investments held by operating segments to optimize the business portfolio. Consequently it recorded gains on the sales of shares mainly in listed companies. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the largest part of the gains came from the sale of a part of Mitsui’s stake in the Sakhalin II project; sales of its entire holding in EBM in Brazil; and sale of additional shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan) following the sale of the previous year. In addition, the Consumer Service & IT Segment recorded gains in exchange of shares in Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) and on sales of shares in telecommunication companies including two cable television providers and Jupiter Telecommunications Co., Ltd in Japan. Other operating segments also recorded gains on sales of shares of listed companies such as Quintiles Transnational Corp. in the United States and BALtrans Holdings Limited in Hong Kong, China in the Logistics & Financial Market Segment. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui enhanced scrutiny on the assets held by operating segments to optimize its business portfolio, and consequently we recorded gains on the sales of shares in listed companies including a ¥15.6 billion gain from Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. shares. Mitsui also record a ¥4.5 billion gain on the sale of shares in Telepark Corp. (Japan), a subsidiary engaged in sales of mobile devices and telecommunication lines. Loss on Write-Down of Securities Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Loss on write-downs of securities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥117.4 billion, a substantial increase of ¥80.7 billion, or 219.9%, from ¥36.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. 92 Table of Contents After reaching ¥18,261.98 in July 2007 reflecting high expectations for continued growth in Japanese corporate earnings, the Nikkei Stock Average started to move downwards reflecting declines in global equity prices and the appreciation of Japanese Yen against major currencies and closed at ¥12,525.54 as of March 31, 2008. Subsequent to that date, the Nikkei Stock Average once rebounced to ¥14,489.44 in June 2008, but resumed its downward trend over the summer. Following the bankruptcy of one of the largest investment banks in the U.S. in September 2008, the Nikkei Stock Average plummeted to ¥7,054.98 in the beginning of March, the lowest since 1982, and ended with ¥8,109.53 as of March 31, 2009. (The above mentioned stock prices are closing prices.) • The losses for the year ended March 31, 2009 included write-downs on listed shares of ¥79.3 billion reflecting the above mentioned domestic market downward trend. While we recorded impairment losses of ¥18.0 billion for Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. (Japan) as well as ¥4.2 billion for Ishihara Sangyo Kaisha, LTD. (Japan) in the Chemical Segment, ¥9.6 billion for Nippon Steel Corporation in the Iron & Steel Products Segment and ¥8.2 billion for Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment, almost all the segments recorded impairment losses on various listed securities. • The losses for the year ended March 31, 2009 included write-downs on non-listed shares, including ¥12.0 billion for Recruit Co., Ltd. (Japan) and ¥9.8 billion on domestic office building development business in the Consumer Service & IT Segment. • The losses for the corresponding year ended March 31, 2008 included write-downs on listed shares for ¥28.0 billion, including an ¥8.6 billion loss for Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd., a ¥4.5 billion loss for Central Finance Co., Ltd. (Japan) in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment and a ¥4.5 billion loss for Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. in the Foods & Retail Segment. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Loss on write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥36.7 billion, a large increase of ¥25.0 billion, or 213.7%, from ¥11.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2007 the Nikkei Stock Average hit a low of ¥14,218.60 in June 2006, reflecting appreciation of the Japanese yen and correction of global stock markets. However, such pessimistic sentiment faded and the Nikkei Stock Average recovered to ¥17, 287.65 as of March 31, 2007. During the year ended March 31, 2008, the Nikkei Stock Average recorded a high of ¥18,261.98 due to the rise of expectations for expanding Japanese corporate earnings, but retreated from highs reflecting declines in global stock prices and Japanese yen appreciation, triggered by the sub-prime mortgage crisis, and recorded ¥12,525.54 as of March 31, 2008. • The losses for the year ended March 31, 2008 included write-downs on listed shares for ¥28.0 billion, including ¥4.5 billion for Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. in the Foods & Retail Segment and ¥4.5 billion for Central Finance Co., Ltd. in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. Furthermore, reflecting overall decline in domestic stock markets, we recorded write-down losses in the Machinery & Infrastructure Segment in ¥8.6 billion for Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd shares and in the Chemical Segment in ¥2.8 billion for Kaneka Corporation shares. • Losses for the year ended March 31, 2007 consisted of miscellaneous small losses, including those on listed shares, amounting to ¥3.1 billion. Gain on Disposal or Sales of Property and Equipment—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥2.8 billion, an increase of ¥3.0 billion, or 1,500.0%, from a loss of ¥0.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Major gains for the year ended March 31, 2009 were related to the sale of a lumber mill held by Portac Inc. 93 Table of Contents (United States) in the Americas Segment and the sale of an office building previously held by Mitsui & Co. France S.A. in the Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment, while there were only miscellaneous small transactions for the year ended March 31, 2008. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gain on disposal or sales of property and equipment—net for the year ended March 31, 2008 was a loss of ¥0.2 billion, a decline of ¥5.5 billion, or 103.8%, from a ¥5.3 billion gain for the year ended March 31, 2007. Loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 consisted of miscellaneous small items. For the year ended March 31, 2007, major gains resulted from disposal of warehouses and land at Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States) and NST, Inc. (United States). Impairment Loss of Long-Lived Assets Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Impairment loss of long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥37.8 billion, an increase of ¥13.4 billion, or 54.9%, from ¥24.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. • For the year ended March 31, 2009, we recorded a ¥14.6 billion loss on property & equipment and mineral rights of the Vincent oil field resulting from the decline of oil prices in the Energy Segment, a ¥9.6 billion loss on office building business in London, the U.K, reflecting severe real estate market conditions in the region in the Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment, and a ¥2.8 billion loss on intangible assets at Steel Technologies Inc. in the Americas Segment. For more information on impairment losses on long-lived assets, see Note 10, “IMPAIRMENT LOSS OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS”. Also see the relevant discussions as described later on the impairment losses in “Operating Results by Operating Segment” in this item. • For the year ended March 31, 2008 the Group recorded a ¥13.9 billion loss on real estate which Mitsui held in Saito International Culture Park located in the north area of Osaka Prefecture, a ¥3.9 billion loss on a domestic power producing operation, and a loss on company-owned residences of Mitsui. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Impairment loss of long-lived assets for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥24.4 billion, an increase of ¥5.0 billion, or 25.8%, from ¥19.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, we recorded a ¥13.9 billion loss on real estate which we possess in Saito International Culture Park (“SICP”), located in the north area of Osaka Prefecture. Other major losses were those related to impairment on power producing equipment at GTF Green Power Co., Ltd. (Japan), a domestic power producing operation, and on Mitsui’s corporate residences and dormitories. See the relevant discussion as described later on the impairment loss in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—All Other” in this item. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, the subsidiaries in the Foods & Retail Segment recorded major impairment losses, namely, a ¥12.1 billion loss on intangible assets at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) due to deterioration of the operating environment and a ¥2.2 billion loss at MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) on real estate and facilities which were idle as a result of the reorganization of distribution bases. See the relevant discussion as described later on the impairment loss at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. in “Operating Results by Operating Segment— Foods & Retail Segment” in this item. 94 Table of Contents Impairment Loss of Goodwill Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Impairment loss of goodwill for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥18.6 billion, an increase of ¥16.6 billion, or 830.0%, from ¥2.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. • For the year ended March 31, 2009, we recorded a ¥6.4 billion loss for Steel Technologies Inc., reflecting rapid slowdown of the steel products business for automotive and housing industries in the United States, and a ¥4.1 billion loss for Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan), reflecting a decline in its share price. See the relevant discussions as described later on the impairment losses in “Operating Results by Operating Segment” in this item. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, we recorded a ¥2.0 billion loss for Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., reflecting a decline in its share price. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Impairment loss of Goodwill for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥2.0 billion, a decline of ¥14.5 billion, or 87.9%, from ¥16.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Details of impairment losses are as below: • Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) and NextCom K.K. (Japan), both of which were subsidiaries and listed on the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, were merged in April, 2007. At the merger, a ¥2.5 billion gain from the exchange of shares was recognized. For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported a ¥2.0 billion impairment loss on its goodwill, reflecting a decline in its share price. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. reported a ¥16.5 billion impairment loss on all of its goodwill, using a discounted future cash flow method based on its internal operating budget for evaluation of fair value of its goodwill. After reporting this significant impairment loss, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded net income of ¥0.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, a marginal income which the management had expected considering continuously strict business conditions. The carrying amounts of goodwill as of March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were ¥33.6 billion, ¥52.5 billion and ¥37.2 billion, respectively. For more information, see Note 12, “GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS.” Despite the fact that the Americas Segment recorded a ¥13.6 billion impairment loss of goodwill for the year ended March 31, 2009, goodwill recorded at the segment still accounts for 42% of the total goodwill outstanding balance as of March 31, 2009, and most of the goodwill in the segment belongs to subsidiaries in the United States. As of the date of this annual report, management continues to pay a close attention to the operating results and business of the subsidiaries in the United States in monitoring the possibility of occurrence of additional goodwill impairment, considering the prolonged economic slowdown in the United States. Other Expense—Net Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Other Expense—net for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥46.5 billion, an increase of expense of ¥43.5 billion, or 1,450%, from ¥3.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Mitsui recorded foreign exchange losses of ¥17.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2009 including a loss of ¥13.6 billion on commodity trading activities in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment which corresponded to the related profit recorded in gross profit in the same segment. • Exploration expenses at the oil & gas business increased. The salvage expenses of ¥4.5 billion for the Mexican gulf oil production facility seriously damaged by a hurricane and a liquidation cost of ¥3.7 billion of currency option transactions at Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio were also recorded. 95 Table of Contents • A major component of other expenses—net for the year ended March 31, 2008 was exploration expenses, mainly at Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia). Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Other expense—net for the year ended March 31, 2008 was a ¥3.0 billion expense, an increase of ¥2.5 billion, or 500.0%, from a loss of ¥0.5 billion in expenses for the year ended March 31, 2007. A major component of other expenses—net for the year ended March 31, 2008 was exploration expenses, mainly at Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia). For the year ended March 31, 2007, restructuring-related charges were reported mainly by MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. (Japan) and Hokushuren Company Limited (Japan). For more information on other expense—net, see Note 19, “OTHER EXPENSE (INCOME)—NET.” and on our restructuring activities, see Note 24, “EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.” Income Taxes Comparison between the year ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Income taxes for the year ended March 31, 2009 were ¥119.4 billion, a decline of ¥51.8 billion, or 30.3%, from ¥171.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008 due to a decline in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The effective tax rate for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 48.3%, an increase of 5.7 percentage points from 42.6% for the year ended March 31, 2008. The increase in the effective tax rate was due mainly to an increase in the valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets after evaluating the recoverability of deferred tax assets, which was partially offset by a decline in the effective tax rate attributable to the application of lower income tax rates to certain taxable income at overseas subsidiaries and a decline in the effect of taxation on dividends. The increase in the valuation allowance include a ¥20.8 billion valuation allowance recorded at Mitsui based on new tax laws to be applied for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010. The new tax laws allow tax payers to deduct 95% of dividend received income from foreign subsidiaries, which are 25% or more owned foreign investees in this context, and therefore, Mitsui’s future taxable incomes after the year ending March 31, 2010 are expected to be reduced. Also from the year ending March 31, 2010, Mitsui and its 100% domestic subsidiaries will file a consolidated tax return as a group. Under the circumstances, we forecasted the future taxable incomes of the consolidated tax group as well as of Mitsui stand alone basis, and evaluated the realizability of the deferred tax assets. As a result of the analysis, we recognized the valuation allowance of ¥20.8 billion since we determined that a recovery of a part of deferred tax assets is highly unlikely. For further information, see Note 20, “INCOME TAXES.” 96 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 For the year ended March 31, 2008, income taxes were ¥171.2 billion, an increase of ¥25.9 billion, or 17.8%, from ¥145.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting increases in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The effective tax rate was 42.6%, a decline of 4.4 percentage points from 47.0% for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decline was seen in the effect of taxation on dividends, application of lower income tax rates to certain taxable income at overseas subsidiaries and changes in valuation allowance, which was partly offset by a higher income tax rate on certain natural resources extracting activities including those in Australia, Thailand and Oman. Transfer price taxation issue with North West Shelf LNG Project Mitsui was audited by the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau with regard to transfer pricing on the LNG Project in Western Australia for the six fiscal years from the year ended March 31, 2000 to the year ended March 31, 2005. Mitsui received notices of tax assessment from the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau for the years ended March 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002 and paid approximately ¥10.7 billion in total. Mitsui disagreed with the assessment, registered its protest and lodged an application in November 2006 for the mutual agreement procedure pursuant to a provision in the tax treaty between Japan and Australia in order to settle the double taxation. In December 2008, the competent authorities of Japan and Australia reached the mutual agreement, and Mitsui received abatement regarding the tax assessments while our associated company in Australia also received a tax refund for the taxable income adjustment from the Australian tax authority. The total of the tax assessment, the abatement and the reversal of FIN48 reserve at Mitsui was recorded in Income Taxes. For further information, see Note 20, “INCOME TAXES.” As of March 31, 2009, the earliest tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions in which the companies operate are the year ended March 31, 2003 for Japan; the year ended March 31, 2006 for the United States; and the year ended March 31, 2005 for Australia. Minority Interests in Earnings of Subsidiaries Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥35.1 billion, a decline of ¥10.9 billion, or 23.7%, from ¥46.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (with a minority interest of 46.5%), Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) (with a minority interest of 38.1%) and Mitsui E&P Mozambique Area 1 (Republic of Mozambique) (with a minority interest of 74.4% reported declines in minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries while Novus International Inc. (U.S.A.) (with a minority interest of 35.0%) reported an increase. 97 Table of Contents Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2008 were ¥46.0 billion, a large increase of ¥28.1 billion, or 157.0%, from ¥17.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries increased due to the following factors: • The Energy Segment recorded minority interests in earnings of ¥20.6 billion and ¥1.7 billion for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, most of which related to Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) (with a minority interest of 48.5%), which became a subsidiary as a result of the acquisition of additional voting shares in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. • In the Foods & Retail Segment, for the year ended March 31, 2007 Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) (with a minority interest of 48.1%) recorded a loss from continuing operations before minority interests and equity in earnings, reflecting significant impairment losses on long-lived assets and goodwill, contributing ¥8.3 billion in minority interests in income for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, its operating results recovered to a marginally positive amount of income and zero minority interest is recorded. • The Mineral & Metal Resources Segment recorded minority interests in earnings of ¥7.2 billion and ¥7.3 billion for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively, in Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. (Netherlands) (with a minority interest of 38.1%), which owns an interest in a copper mine joint venture, Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile). Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥84.8 billion, a decline of ¥69.5 billion, or 45.0%, from ¥154.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008 as a result of the followings (See “Operating Results by Operating Segment” for detailed discussion.): • An increase of ¥11.0 billion at Robe River Mining Company (Australia) reflecting an increase in iron ore prices. • A decline in earnings at Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) of ¥7.4 billion due to the drop in copper prices, an increase in production cost and the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese Yen. • A decline at Valepar S.A.(*1) of ¥4.9 billion reflecting a reduction in earnings at its investee, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (“Vale”), mainly due to a sharp drop in nickel prices as well as appreciation of the Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar partially offset by an increase in iron ore prices. • A decline in earnings due to impairment losses of approximately ¥54.0 billion including a loss of ¥28.0 billion for Sims Metal Management Limited and a loss of ¥7.6 billion for Penske Automotive Group, Inc., reflecting other-than-temporary declines in share prices of these listed associated companies. • Overseas power producing businesses such as IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) reported an increase of ¥6.9 billion due to a reversal effect that Australian power producing operation recorded mark-to-market evaluation losses on power swap contracts for the corresponding previous year(*2). (*1) Valepar S.A. is a controlling shareholder of Vale, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, a mineral resources company in Brazil, legally renamed Vale S.A. in May 2009. (*2) An Australian power producing operation of IPM Eagle had concluded a long term power price swap contract, corresponding to a power supply contract until 2016. Reflecting fluctuations in the Australian open electricity market, it recognizes mark-to-market evaluation profit and loss. See also “Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment” of “Operating Results by Operating Segment” for further information. 98 Table of Contents • An increase in earnings at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) PTY. Ltd. (Australia) reflecting an increase in oil prices as well as a higher price of condensate sold to Mittwell Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥154.3 billion, a slight increase of ¥1.2 billion, or 0.8%, from ¥153.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major factors for improved earnings are as follows. (See “Operating Results by Operating Segment” for detailed discussion.): • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment reported ¥71.2 billion equity in earnings, an increase of ¥10.9 billion, from ¥60.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Earnings increased at Valepar S.A. due to strong operating results of Vale reflecting higher iron prices and contributions from Inco Limited (currently Vale Inco Limited) following the acquisition by Vale during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the Energy Segment reported ¥36.8 billion equity in earnings, a decline of ¥7.6 billion, from ¥44.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating results of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. were reported as earnings of an associated company up to the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. However upon Mitsui’s acquisition of additional voting shares in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, its operating results are now reported within line items of the consolidated statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2008. On the other hand, an LNG and oil development associated company, Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), recorded a slight increase in earnings. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment reported a ¥20.3 billion equity in earnings, a decline of ¥1.1 billion, from ¥21.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. This segment recorded a loss reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in share price of ASAHI TEC CORPORATION (Japan), a manufacturer of ductile iron cast parts and aluminum forged parts. In addition, IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) and others recorded a total of ¥5.8 billion mark-to-market evaluation loss on long-term swap agreements at their overseas power operations for the year ended March 31, 2008 , while Brazilian gas distribution associated companies reported improved earnings. • Other operating segments also recorded improvement in general, mainly in the Consumer Service & IT Segment. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations—Net (After Income Tax Effect) Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Income from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was nil, a decline of ¥71.0 billion from the year ended March 31, 2008. Major discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2008 were a gain of ¥55.2 billion on the sale of our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited (India) of the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, a gain of ¥9.6 billion on the sale of our entire oil and gas producing interests in Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. of the Energy Segment, and a gain of ¥4.4 billion on the sale of leased aircraft held by Tombo Aviation, Inc. of the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. Comparison between the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Income from discontinued operations—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥71.0 billion, a significant increase of ¥68.6 billion, or 2,858.3%, from ¥2.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major components of discontinued operations for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2008, we divested our entire stake in Sesa Goa Limited (India) and recorded a ¥55.2 billion gain in income in line with an on-going optimization initiative of the business portfolio in our worldwide iron ore mining operations. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Sesa Goa Limited reported ¥1.4 billion in net income. 99 Table of Contents • We divested our entire oil and gas producing interest in Wandoo Petroleum Pty Limited (Australia) and recorded a ¥9.6 billion gain in income. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Wandoo Petroleum Pty Limited reported ¥0.2 billion in net income. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, we liquidated an aircraft leasing company of Tombo Aviation (United States) after divesting all its aircraft and recorded ¥4.4 billion in income, while it reported ¥0.3 billion in income for the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc., which discontinued housing business during the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded a ¥0.2 billion gain in income. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno recorded ¥1.1 billion in net loss. Mitsui Bussan House Techno recorded estimated cost of ¥5.3 billion to meet future requirements for products warranties and maintenance Services for the year ended March 31, 2007. For further information about the products warranties, refer to Note 22, “CONTINGENT LIABILITIES”. Except Mitsui Bussan House-Techno there is no significant contingent liability from the discontinued operations. For additional information about our discontinued operations, see Note 4, “DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.” Operating Results by Operating Segment The business units of Mitsui’s Head Office, which are organized based on “products and services,” plan overall and worldwide strategies for their products and services and conduct their worldwide operations. The business units also collaborate with overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries in planning and executing their strategies for products and regions. The overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries are separate operating units, which are delegated responsibility for the business of their regions as the centers of each particular regional strategy and operate diversified businesses together with their subsidiaries and associated companies in collaboration with the business units. Therefore, our operating segments consist of product-focused operating segments comprised of the business units of the Head Office and region-focused operating segments comprised of overseas branches and overseas trading subsidiaries. Our operating segments have been aggregated based on the nature of the products and other criteria into eight product-focused reportable operating segments and three region-focused reportable operating segments, totaling eleven reportable operating segments. Based on the reorganization effective April 1, 2008, the following subsidiaries previously included in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects and the Chemical Segments were transferred to the Americas Segment. The operating segment information for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 has been restated to conform to the current fiscal year presentation. From the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment: Mitsui Automotoriz S.A. (Peru), Road Machinery LLC (United States), Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States) From the Chemical Segment: Novus International, Inc.(*1), Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio (Brazil) (*1) Novus International, Inc. was transferred in the 4th quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. 100 Table of Contents Our operating segment information for gross profit, operating income (loss), equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies and net income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows: Operating Segment Information Gross Profit Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 52.2 ¥ 61.3 ¥ 57.8 ¥ (9.1 ) ¥ 3.5 Mineral & Metal Resources 119.2 95.8 111.0 23.4 (15.2 ) Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 106.3 119.7 101.9 (13.4 ) 17.8 Chemical 80.0 100.2 95.6 (20.2 ) 4.6 Energy 272.0 219.3 123.9 52.7 95.4 Foods & Retail 82.4 81.2 81.3 1.2 (0.1 ) Consumer Service & IT 73.7 116.7 130.0 (43.0 ) (13.3 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 62.1 55.1 60.5 7.0 (5.4 ) Americas 116.0 78.5 78.3 37.5 0.2 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 22.2 26.8 25.4 (4.6 ) 1.4 Asia Pacific 26.6 33.1 30.7 (6.5 ) 2.4 Total 1,012.7 987.7 896.4 25.0 91.3 All Other 2.9 5.5 4.3 (2.6 ) 1.2 Adjustments and Eliminations 0.7 (5.1 ) (34.4 ) 5.8 29.3 Consolidated Total ¥ 1,016.3 ¥ 988.1 ¥ 866.3 ¥ 28.2 ¥ 121.8 101 Table of Contents Operating Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 17.4 ¥ 25.6 ¥ 25.6 ¥ (8.2 ) ¥ 0.0 Mineral & Metal Resources 104.5 79.0 91.3 25.5 (12.3 ) Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 16.0 30.1 19.4 (14.1 ) 10.7 Chemical 24.2 42.8 36.2 (18.6 ) 6.6 Energy 214.1 172.5 81.3 41.6 91.2 Foods & Retail 19.0 16.6 10.9 2.4 5.7 Consumer Service & IT (12.8 ) 19.0 20.3 (31.8 ) (1.3 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 23.8 20.9 24.2 2.9 (3.3 ) Americas 39.0 7.3 22.0 31.7 (14.7 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa (1.9 ) 1.8 2.9 (3.7 ) (1.1 ) Asia Pacific (1.6 ) 7.6 9.5 (9.2 ) (1.9 ) Total 441.7 423.2 343.6 18.5 79.6 All Other (2.9 ) (1.4 ) (4.4 ) (1.5 ) 3.0 Adjustments and Eliminations (44.1 ) (47.0 ) (56.4 ) 2.9 9.4 Consolidated Total ¥ 394.7 ¥ 374.8 ¥ 282.8 ¥ 19.9 ¥ 92.0 Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) is included as a measure of reviewing the performance of each segment. Operating income (loss) reflects our (a) gross profit, (b) selling, general and administrative expenses and (c) provision for doubtful receivables, as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ (1.3 ) ¥ 4.9 ¥ 3.1 ¥ (6.2 ) ¥ 1.8 Mineral & Metal Resources 39.4 71.2 60.3 (31.8 ) 10.9 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 13.9 20.3 21.4 (6.4 ) (1.1 ) Chemical 1.7 5.8 4.9 (4.1 ) 0.9 Energy 44.1 36.8 44.4 7.3 (7.6 ) Foods & Retail (3.8 ) 3.1 3.8 (6.9 ) (0.7 ) Consumer Service & IT 2.0 8.2 8.7 (6.2 ) (0.5 ) Logistics & Financial Markets (10.5 ) (1.9 ) 2.0 (8.6 ) (3.9 ) Americas (2.2 ) 5.1 3.9 (7.3 ) 1.2 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0 0.0 Asia Pacific 1.0 1.1 0.7 (0.1 ) 0.4 Total 84.6 154.9 153.5 (70.3 ) 1.4 All Other 0.0 0.1 0.1 (0.1 ) 0.0 Adjustments and Eliminations 0.2 (0.7 ) (0.5 ) 0.9 (0.2 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 84.8 ¥ 154.3 ¥ 153.1 ¥ (69.5 ) ¥ 1.2 102 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ (4.8 ) ¥ 20.2 ¥ 20.6 ¥ (25.0 ) ¥ (0.4 ) Mineral & Metal Resources 90.0 177.0 98.4 (87.0 ) 78.6 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 21.8 34.4 33.2 (12.6 ) 1.2 Chemical (10.2 ) 18.3 20.8 (28.5 ) (2.5 ) Energy 153.3 124.1 75.7 29.2 48.4 Foods & Retail 1.5 10.4 (12.3 ) (8.9 ) 22.7 Consumer Service & IT (31.4 ) 12.0 16.6 (43.4 ) (4.6 ) Logistics & Financial Markets (14.5 ) 7.5 14.6 (22.0 ) (7.1 ) Americas (7.1 ) 5.0 15.8 (12.1 ) (10.8 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa (11.5 ) 5.0 4.1 (16.5 ) 0.9 Asia Pacific 30.6 22.5 22.0 8.1 0.5 Total 217.7 436.4 309.5 (218.7 ) 126.9 All Other 6.5 (7.1 ) 5.8 13.6 (12.9 ) Adjustments and Eliminations (46.6 ) (19.2 ) (13.8 ) (27.4 ) (5.4 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 177.6 ¥ 410.1 ¥ 301.5 ¥ (232.5 ) ¥ 108.6 Iron & Steel Products Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 52.2 ¥ 61.3 ¥ 57.8 ¥ (9.1 ) ¥ 3.5 Operating Income 17.4 25.6 25.6 (8.2 ) 0.0 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) (1.3 ) 4.9 3.1 (6.2 ) 1.8 Net Income (Loss) (4.8 ) 20.2 20.6 (25.0 ) (0.4 ) 103 Table of Contents Comparison between the Year Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥52.2 billion, a decline of ¥9.1 billion from ¥61.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The domestic steel products business which enjoyed a steady growth up to the first half of the current fiscal year but faced a drastic change in the environment following the sharp escalation of financial stress and the decline in global economy. The rapid demand destruction resulted in lower sales volume and a sharp drop in prices of all steel products in the second half of the current fiscal year. Except for demand of steel tubular products for oil field applications, which was softened by destocking, foreign trading transactions of various products such as steel sheets and plates for automobiles and shipbuilding, steel tubular products and line pipes for oil and gas development including transactions carried out by Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. to Asian markets decelerated due to a sharp decline in demand for the same reasons mentioned above. As a result, Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. was forced to recognize a valuation loss on inventories while it recorded solid results for the first half of the current fiscal year supported by continued favorable demand. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥17.4 billion, a decline of ¥8.2 billion from ¥25.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting a decline in gross profit. Equity in losses of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥1.3 billion, a decline of ¥6.2 billion from earnings of ¥4.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. On top of lower earnings of associated companies in general due to the economic slowdown, we recognized an impairment loss of ¥3.4 billion, reflecting a decline in the listed share price of Nippon Steel Trading Co., Ltd. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥4.8 billion, a ¥25.0 billion decline from earnings of ¥20.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. In addition to the decline in operating income and equity in earnings, a decline in gains on sales of securities and recognition of impairment losses of ¥13.3 billion on listed securities, including a ¥9.6 billion impairment loss on shares of Nippon Steel Corporation, resulted in the decline in net income. Comparison between the Year Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥61.3 billion, an increase of ¥3.5 billion from ¥57.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Overall steel products business continued to show solid performance mainly in high-end tubular products for energy applications, automobile steel plates and shipbuilding steel plates. Regency Steel Asia Pte Ltd. (Singapore) also contributed to the increase in earnings, reflecting robust operations for construction material, tubular products and steel plates for the Asian market. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥25.6 billion, the same as the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase in gross profit was mainly offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥4.9 billion, an increase of ¥1.8 billion from ¥3.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥20.2 billion, a ¥0.4 billion decline from ¥20.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, due to a decline of gain on sales of securities, although there was an increase in equity in earnings of associated companies. 104 Table of Contents Mineral & Metal Resources Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 119.2 ¥ 95.8 ¥ 111.0 ¥ 23.4 ¥ (15.2 ) Operating Income 104.5 79.0 91.3 25.5 (12.3 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 39.4 71.2 60.3 (31.8 ) 10.9 Net Income 90.0 177.0 98.4 (87.0 ) 78.6 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥119.2 billion, an increase of ¥23.4 billion from ¥95.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. • The main factor contributing to the increase in gross profit from iron ore mining operations was the increase in iron ore annual contract prices. Reflecting the tight market condition in emerging and developing countries, especially in China, iron ore prices for the year ended March 31, 2009 increased substantially from prices for the year ended March 31, 2008. Following the settlement of Brazilian iron ore fines with increases of 65~71%, Australian iron ore lump and fines prices were settled with an increase of 96.5% and 79.9% respectively. FOB (Free On Board) prices of Brazilian iron ore and Australian iron ore had been at the same level as was the customary practice in this industry up to the year ended March 31, 2008. However, Australian iron ore producers insisted that different prices be applied, reflecting the ocean freight difference between Australia and Brazil to major markets, such as China and Japan. • Due to the global economic slowdown triggered by the financial turmoil, the world crude steel production fell sharply in the three month period ended December 31, 2008 and the production for the year ended March 31, 2009 was down by approximately 9%, from that of the year ended March 31, 2008. Crude steel production in China, which had been sharply increasing in the recent years, fell off dramatically in the three month period ended December 31, 2008 and the total production for the year ended March 31, 2009 was flat, compared with the year ended March 31, 2008. Experiencing decline in sales volume under such a weak demand situation as well as the weakening Australian Dollar vis-à-vis the Japanese Yen, the iron ore mining operating business recorded a decline in gross profit for the three month period ended March 31, 2009 compared with the corresponding three month period of the previous year although the gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 still recorded a modest increase from the year ended March 31, 2008, thanks to the increase in iron ore annual prices as mentioned above. Consequently, increases in gross profit recorded by Mitsui Iron Ore Development and Mitsui Itochu Iron were ¥23.3 billion and ¥2.0 billion, respectively. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥104.5 billion, an increase of ¥25.5 billion from ¥79.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting the increase in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥39.4 billion, a decline of ¥31.8 billion from ¥71.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Major factors were as follows: • Earnings at Robe River Mining Company were ¥22.3 billion, an increase of ¥11.0 billion from ¥11.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting the increase in iron ore prices. • Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM, a Chilean copper mining company, recorded earnings of ¥11.5 billion, a decline of ¥7.4 billion from ¥18.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008 due to an increase in production costs and the depreciation of the U.S.Dollar against the Japanese Yen. 105 Table of Contents • Valepar S.A. posted earnings of ¥29.2 billion, a decline of ¥4.9 billion from ¥34.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting a reduction in earnings at, its investee, Vale, mainly due to a drop in nickel prices as well as the depreciation of the Brazilian Real against the Japanese Yen. • Reflecting a decline in the listed share price of Sims Metal Management Limited, we recognized an impairment loss of ¥28.0 billion. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥90.0 billion, a decline of ¥87.0 billion from ¥177.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. In addition to the factors mentioned above there are the following factors: • Other expense-net was a loss of ¥0.4 billion, a decline of ¥4.8 billion from a profit of ¥4.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, as a result of a foreign exchange translation loss of ¥3.6 billion related to a borrowing denominated in U.S. Dollars at Mitsui Raw Material Development Pty. Limited (Australia). In addition, this segment recorded a loss of ¥3.0 billion on write-down of securities including an impairment loss on shares of JFE Holdings, Inc. (Japan). • Increase in operating income and equity in earnings were offset by a significant reversal effect from gains of ¥93.9 billion on the sale of our whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited(*) and of ¥12.4 billion on the sale of shares in EBM, a Brazilian iron ore company for the year ended March 31, 2008. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥95.8 billion, a decline of ¥15.2 billion from ¥111.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 as a result of the following: • The divestiture in April 2007 of our entire holding in Sesa Goa Limited, formerly our iron ore subsidiary, which resulted in a decline of ¥27.2 billion(*) in this segment’s gross profit, the amount which Sesa Goa Limited contributed for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Reflecting tight supply-demand balance in Asia, especially in China, iron ore prices for the year ending March 31, 2008 increased by 9.5 % from the year ended March 31, 2007. Consequently, gross profit at Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. (Australia) and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd. (Australia) increased by ¥8.7 billion and ¥4.3 billion, respectively. At Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Itochu Iron Pty. Ltd., shipments (on our equity production basis) stayed at almost the same levels of 22.6 million tons and 3.1 million tons respectively for the year ended March 31, 2008, compared to 22.8 million tons and 2.9 million tons respectively for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥79.0 billion, a decline of ¥12.3 billion from ¥91.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, due to the above-mentioned decline in gross profit. There was a marginal improvement in selling, general administrative expenses as a result of the divestiture of Sesa Goa Limited. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥71.2 billion, an increase of ¥10.9 billion from ¥60.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major factors contributing to the increase were as follows: • Valepar S.A. (Brazil) posted a net income of ¥34.1 billion, an increase of ¥9.1 billion from ¥25.0 billion including a ¥5.6 billion one-time gain on issuance of stock by Vale in exchange for Caemi Mineraçã o e (*) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of Sesa Goa for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). However, in this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, operating results of Sesa Goa have been included in and presented as continuing operation. 106 Table of Contents Metalurgia S.A stock in the year ended March 31, 2007. This increase is due to strong operating results of Vale reflecting higher iron prices and contributions from newly acquired Inco Limited (currently Vale Inco Limited) following the acquisition by Vale during the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. • Earnings of Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM (Chile) was a net income of ¥18.9 billion, a decline of ¥0.3 billion from the year ended March 31, 2007. The LME copper price for 2007 (calendar year) was U.S.$7,126 per ton on average compared to U.S.$6,731 per ton for 2006 (calendar year). • Sims Group Limited (Australia), a metal recycler, added a new contribution in earnings of ¥1.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥177.0 billion, a significant increase of ¥78.6 billion from ¥98.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Besides the above-mentioned factors, there were significant gains from divestitures for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded a ¥93.9 billion gain on the sale of its whole stake in Sesa Goa Limited(*). In addition, it also recorded a ¥12.4 billion gain on the sale of shares in Empreendimentos Brasileiros de Mineração S.A. • For the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, this segment recorded ¥14.2 billion and ¥9.4 billion gains on the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Japan), respectively. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for Iron Ore, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance Major suppliers including our joint venture businesses in Australia in which we participate with major overseas mineral resources companies conclude long-term supply contracts with various clients in the world including Japanese and Chinese steel manufacturers. Based on such contracts, sales prices are reviewed and renegotiated each fiscal year. (Unit prices for iron ore from each mine in production also reflect the difference of respective grades and types.) Until the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 prices continued to run up driven by increased demands especially in China as well as tightened supplies from Australia and Brazil due to their limited production capacities. Annual prices for the year ended March 31, 2009 rose sharply after long negotiations, resulting in 65-96.5% price increases depending on the grades and types over the annual prices for the year ended March 31, 2008. Nevertheless, economic slowdown triggered by the financial crisis in September 2008 changed the situation drastically. Crude steel production in the world, even in China, which is the world largest crude steel producing country, rapidly declined, and as a result, iron ore producers were forced to adjust their productions as well as shipments and spot prices of iron ore dropped. While crude steel production in China is showing signs of recovery, production in the rest of the world remains to be under tremendous pressure. Under such circumstances, one major Australian iron ore producer announced in early June that it had settled its iron ore contract for the year ending March 31, 2010 with major iron ore consumers in Asian countries such as Japan, Korea and Taiwan with price reductions of 32.9% for fine ore and 44.5% for lump ore from the prices for the year ended March 31, 2009. On June 10, 2009, a major Brazilian iron ore producer announced that it concluded negotiations with Japanese and Korean (*) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of Sesa Goa for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). However, in this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, operating results of Sesa Goa have been included in and presented as continuing operation. 107 Table of Contents iron ore consumers with price reductions of 28.2% for fine ore, 44.5% for lump ore and 48.3% for pellet from the prices for the year ended March 31, 2009. As of July 10, 2009, the both iron ore producers remain in price negotiations with other consumers including Chinese consumers. The other major Australian iron ore producer has not made any announcement regarding its annual contract price negotiation for the year ending March 31, 2010. Fluctuations in iron ore prices directly affect revenues from the equity-based production at our iron ore subsidiaries and associated companies. For the year ending March 31, 2010, we estimate that the impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in iron ore price would be approximately ¥2.0 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2009, the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies amounted to approximately 39 million tons of iron ore. The above-mentioned effect is calculated based on the assumptions of an estimated decline in production in line with our holdings after the year ended March 31, 2009, and a specific range of foreign exchange rates for the Japanese yen, U.S. dollar, Australian dollar and Brazilian real. Although the rate of run-up in material and equipment costs as well as utility and personnel costs has halted due to the global economic slowdown, the cost is expected not to decline immediately since the impact of such cost reductions has certain time lag and the effect of increased unit cost due to lower production volumes offsets the cost reduction. In natural resource producing countries such as Australia and Brazil, there is a general trend toward currency appreciation in line with the growing export of those products, resulting in a negative impact on the revenues of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production Due to the contraction of activity and trade provoked by the dramatic escalation of the financial crisis, the demand for iron ore is likely to decline in the short-term. However, in the mid- and long-term, it is expected that steel products demand in developing countries remains strong, and consequently. In order to respond to such increasing demand, major iron ore producers intend to continue investing to expand their production capacity. As of March 31, 2009, noteworthy developments in iron ore projects in which we hold stakes are as follows: (Unless otherwise noted, production amounts represent a 100% basis.) • Our iron ore mining joint ventures led by the BHP Billiton group completed expansion to raise the combined iron ore production capacity to 129 million tons per annum from 118 million tons. In addition, the joint venture members further agreed to an expansion plan to increase annual production capacity to 155 million tons and to start production by 2010. Furthermore, joint venture members approved expansion plan in November 2009 involving the expansion of railway and ports in parallel with the current construction, with the aim being to increase annual production capacity to 205 million tons by latter half of 2011. • In the iron ore mining joint venture led by Rio Tinto group, participants agreed to a plan in 2007 to expand port capacity at Cape Lambert in the Pilbara region of Western Australia from nameplate capacity of 55 to 80 million tons per annum, and completed the project in November 2008. In addition, the joint ventures agreed to approve capital investment representing pre-approval of expenditures for material and equipment with an aim to increase annual capacity to 180 million. Furthermore, the joint venture decided to develop the Mesa A / Warramboo mine in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. The new mine will have a full scale capacity of 25 million tons per annum and is expected to start production in 2010. The total mine life of Mesa A is expected to be 11 years. With this addition, total production of Robe Valley pisolite ore will be maintained at 32 million tons per annum. Including those we are participating in, most of the iron ore mining projects have plans for expanding their production capacity in response to forecasted iron ore demand increase in mid- and long-term. As there are too many uncertainties including demand from China and other emerging countries, it is difficult for our management to draw up definitive forecasts on supply-demand balance and prices at this point in time. 108 Table of Contents Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 106.3 ¥ 119.7 ¥ 101.9 ¥ (13.4 ) ¥ 17.8 Operating Income 16.0 30.1 19.4 (14.1 ) 10.7 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 13.9 20.3 21.4 (6.4 ) (1.1 ) Net Income 21.8 34.4 33.2 (12.6 ) 1.2 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥106.3 billion, a decline of ¥13.4 billion from ¥119.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. • While the motorcycle retail finance company P.T. Bussan Auto Finance continued to show solid performance, the Motor Vehicle Business Unit reported a decline of ¥5.9 billion in gross profit due to a decline in import and sales transactions of finished cars and auto parts logistics business activities in the Americas and less business activity as a result of restructuring of subsidiaries in Europe, reflecting contraction of demand inflicted by the massive financial crisis. • Despite the financial turmoil and the sluggish freight market, the Marine & Aerospace Business Unit showed relatively stable performance through marketing commercial vessels, trading in used vessels, operating and chartering vessels for the year ended March 31, 2009. Nevertheless, this business unit reported a decline of ¥3.7 billion in gross profit due to a reversal effect from profit on delivery of some new vessels realized in the year ended March 31, 2008. • Infrastructure Projects Business Unit reported a decline of ¥3.9 billion in gross profit due to less demand for and overhaul of rolling stock at leasing subsidiaries in North America and Europe and fewer deliveries in plant business. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥16.0 billion, a decline of ¥14.1 billion from ¥30.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The major factors were increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and in the provision for doubtful receivables at the Marine & Aerospace and the Infrastructure Projects Business Units in addition to the decline in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥13.9 billion, a decline of ¥6.4 billion from ¥20.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Major factors were as follows: • Overseas power producing businesses such as IPM UK Power Holdings Limited, IPM Eagle LLP and P.T. Paiton Energy reported equity in earnings of ¥10.6 billion, an increase of ¥6.5 billion from equity in earnings of ¥4.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Power producing operations recorded a ¥0.3 billion mark-to-market evaluation gain related to long-term power contracts while Australian power producing operations recorded a ¥5.8 billion mark-to-market evaluation loss on long-term swap agreement for the year ended March 31, 2008. • This segment recorded equity in losses of ¥6.1 billion (this segment portion) for Penske Automotive Group, Inc., ¥3.2 billion for Toyo Engineering Corporation (Japan) and ¥2.1 billion for ASAHI TEC CORPORATION (Japan), reflecting declines in the share prices. The segment also recorded a loss of ¥4.4 billion (this segment portion) for ASAHI TEC CORPORATION for the same reason in the year ended March 31, 2008. • Other than the above-mentioned factors, this segment recorded a profit from sales of vessels at marine business for the year ended March 31, 2009 and had a reversal effect of profit from sale of real estate in automotive related business for the year ended March 31, 2008. 109 Table of Contents Net income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥21.8 billion, a decline of ¥12.6 billion from ¥34.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. In addition to the above-mentioned factors, major factors were as follows: • This segment recorded a loss of ¥8.2 billion on write-down of securities of Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. The segment posted a positive tax effect of ¥6.9 billion in Income Taxes including the effect of the impairment loss of ¥8.6 billion for the previous year(*1). • This segment recorded a gain of ¥5.5 billion(*2) on the sale of leased aircraft held by Tombo Aviation Inc. for the year ended March 31, 2008. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥119.7 billion, an increase of ¥17.8 billion from ¥101.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Overseas automotive-related subsidiaries continued to post solid performance, particularly the motorcycle retail finance company P.T. Bussan Auto Finance (Indonesia) reported higher gross profit, along with an automobile sales dealer company in Russia and other areas. • Ocean vessels and marine project businesses showed overall strong performance through marketing newly built and second hand vessels, operating and chartering vessels and energy related businesses, supported by continued strong demand. • Gross profit increased due to expanding operations at the two rolling stock leasing subsidiaries in Europe and plant businesses including power generation businesses. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥30.1 billion, an increase of ¥10.7 billion from ¥19.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase is primarily attributable to the improvement in gross profit in ocean vessels and marine project businesses and infrastructure projects businesses. Operating income of automotive and machine tools related subsidiaries slightly increased, as increases in their gross profit was mostly offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and provision for doubtful receivables. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥20.3 billion, a decline of ¥1.1 billion from ¥21.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Overseas power producing businesses such as IPM Eagle LLP (United Kingdom) and P.T. Paiton Energy (Indonesia) reported equity in earnings of ¥4.1 billion in total, a decline of ¥5.4 billion from ¥9.5 billion earnings for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decline is due to a ¥5.8 billion mark-to-market evaluation losses for the year ended March 31, 2008 which were recorded mainly by IPM Eagle on long-term swap contracts, among others in its Australian power producing operations. (*1) Mitsui records an impairment loss on a marketable security if a decline in the share price is other-than-temporary. Basically a 30% or more decline in fair value of a security leads to the conclusion that the security has an other-than-temporary impairment. Among those determined to be other-than-temporary impaired, a 50% or less decline in fair value of a security is a nondeductible impairment loss based on Japanese tax laws and regulations. Mitsui evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets for nondeductible impairment losses and set up valuation allowances if it is more likely than not that they are not considered recoverable. (*2) In this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, the gain on the sale of aircraft has been included in and presented as continuing operations. In the consolidated statement of income, the gain of ¥4.4 billion on the sale for the year ended March 31, 2008 is presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). 110 Table of Contents • This segment recorded a ¥4.4 billion equity in loss reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in share price of ASAHI TEC CORPORATION (Japan)(*1), a manufacturer of ductile iron cast parts and aluminum forged parts. • The other associated companies reported improved earnings in general, such as the gas distribution companies in Brazil and the automotive and construction machinery related businesses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥34.4 billion, an increase of ¥1.2 billion from ¥33.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned factors, for the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded: • gains on sales of aircraft which were previously leased to others at Tombo Aviation, Inc. (United States)(*2); and • a ¥8.6 billion loss on the write down of shares in Yamaha Motors Co., Ltd., reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in its market price(*3). Chemical Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 80.0 ¥ 100.2 ¥ 95.6 ¥ (20.2 ) ¥ 4.6 Operating Income 24.2 42.8 36.2 (18.6 ) 6.6 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 1.7 5.8 4.9 (4.1 ) 0.9 Net Income (Loss) (10.2 ) 18.3 20.8 (28.5 ) (2.5 ) (*1) Regarding investment in associated companies listed on Japanese and/or overseas stock exchanges, when we observe an other-than-temporary decline including the case that its book value exceeds the market value, we recognize an impairment loss in the amount equal to the balance between the book value and the market value and record the loss in equity in loss of associated companies. The market price of ASAHI TECH Corporation (listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange) declined significantly from the end of 2006 to the middle of 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, we concluded it was an other-than-temporary decline in fair value loss in the account title of equity in earnings/losses of associated companies. (*2) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of Tombo Aviation, Inc. for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 is presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). However, in this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, operating results of the company are presented and discussed according to line items of the consolidated statements of income. (*3) Mitsui’s Management principally recognizes that a 50% or more decline in fair value of a security from cost leads to the conclusion that the security has an other-than-temporary impairment. In addition, management recognizes an other-than-temporary impairment in case of a 30% or more and less than 50% decline, considering the materiality of declined value. The closing share price of Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. at the Tokyo Stock Exchange was ¥1,834 leading to a more than 30% decline from the cost. As of the end of June 2008, its closing share price at the Tokyo Stock Exchange was ¥1,987, which was slightly less than a 30% decline. 111 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥80.0 billion, a decline of ¥20.2 billion from ¥100.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The principal developments in this segment were as follows: • Basic petrochemicals of upstream products recorded an increase of ¥3.1 billion in gross profit. The ethylene and propylene businesses contributed to the increase by focusing on reducing transportation costs as well as by marketing operations closely monitoring supply demand balance under the circumstances where global demand contraction and a further deterioration in market prices have been taking place. Despite the fact that the market price of ammonia plunged sharply after last autumn, P.T. Kaltim Pasifik Amoniak, a joint venture manufacturing and marketing company of ammonia, recorded an increase in gross profit due to higher price and an increase in sales volume in the first half of the current fiscal year. • Mid-stream intermediate products used for synthetic resin and synthetic fiber products overall recorded a decline of ¥6.8 billion in gross profit due to sharp declines in market prices as well as a further drop in demand. • Plastics and Functional Materials also recorded a decline of ¥7.9 billion in gross profit due to declines in the market prices coupled with a decline in demand. • On the other hand, supported by a globally stable demand for agriculture products, businesses of crop protection chemicals and fertilizer remained robust while sulfur and sulfuric acid, raw materials of fertilizer, decelerated sharply after last summer when the export custom duty for fertilizer products in China was raised which resulted in a decline in the demand and a decline in the price, resulting in a decline of ¥3.5 billion of gross profit. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥24.2 billion, a decline of ¥18.6 billion from ¥42.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting the decline in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥1.7 billion, a decline of ¥4.1 billion from ¥5.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. While International Methanol Company, a joint venture methanol manufacturing company, recorded almost same level of earnings as the year ended March 31, 2008, the segment recorded an equity in loss reflecting impairments of Japanese listed shares. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥10.2 billion, a decline of ¥28.5 billion from net income of ¥18.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. In addition to the above-mentioned factors, this segment recorded a loss of ¥30.0 billion on the write-down of securities including an ¥18.0 billion impairment loss on shares of Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. and a ¥4.2 billion impairment loss on shares in Ishihara Sangyo Kaisha LTD. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥100.2 billion, an increase of ¥4.6 billion from ¥95.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The principal developments in this segment were as follows: • Gross profit continued to stay at high levels, reflecting a solid performance mainly in ammonia and methanol; however, the basic petrochemicals business recorded a decline in gross profit due to a sharp decline in margins following a rapid increase in prices of crude oil and naphtha. • The sulphur business improved its performance, substantially supported by a globally strong demand for agriculture products. Performance of inorganic chemicals and plastics including IT related parts and components remained solid, reflecting a strong demand particularly in Asia. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥42.8 billion, an increase of ¥6.6 billion from ¥36.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. 112 Table of Contents Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.8 billion, an increase of ¥0.9 billion from ¥4.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥18.3 billion, a decline of ¥2.5 billion from ¥20.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Besides the above-mentioned improvements for the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded the following: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, this segment recorded a credit to income of ¥3.9 billion as a result of the reversal of the accrued cost which had been set up based on estimated cost for compensation and other charges related to the DPF incident during past years as a result of completion of the redemption of the relevant DPFs. For more information, see Note 21, “COMPENSATION AND OTHER CHARGES RELATED TO DPF INCIDENT.” • This segment recorded a gain on the sale of shares in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd., for the years ended March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded a ¥4.7 billion loss on the write down of shares mainly in Kaneka Corporation, reflecting other-than-temporary decline in their market prices. Energy Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 272.0 ¥ 219.3 ¥ 123.9 ¥ 52.7 ¥ 95.4 Operating Income 214.1 172.5 81.3 41.6 91.2 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 44.1 36.8 44.4 7.3 (7.6 ) Net Income 153.3 124.1 75.7 29.2 48.4 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Japan Crude Cocktail (“JCC”), which is average CIF price of oil imported to Japan, continued to rise from April 2007, reflecting strong demand and an influx of speculative money into the futures markets and reached US$135 per barrel in August 2008. Following the banking crisis in September 2008, the JCC plummeted to US$43 per barrel in January 2009, and ended at US$44 per barrel (preliminary figure) in March 2009, as a result of weaker demand and increased risk aversion. The JCC price trend is generally reflected in the net income of our overseas oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies in this segment with a zero to 6 month time lag. Considering these time lags, Mitsui periodically calculates the weighted average JCC price applied to operating results of those oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies for internal reviewing purposes. Such weighted average JCC prices for internal reviewing purposes for the year ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 were US$101 per barrel and US$71 per barrel, respectively. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥272.0 billion, an increase of ¥52.7 billion from ¥219.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008 primarily due to the following: • There were contributions of ¥14.2 billion by Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd due to the start-up of oil production at Tui oil field in New Zealand in July 2007 as well as higher oil prices. Likewise, due to higher oil prices MitEnergy Upstream LLC (United States) and Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) reported increases of ¥9.5 billion and ¥5.1 billion, respectively. On the other hand, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. posted a decline of ¥4.2 billion, due to a drop in oil prices reflecting short period of time lag and stronger Japanese Yen against US Dollar and Thai Baht. Mittwell Energy 113 Table of Contents Resources Pty., Ltd. posted a decline of ¥22.7 billion in gross profit due to decline of shipments and an increase in condensate cost as a result of the revision of the purchase price from Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd during the year ended March 31, 2009.(*1) • The price for representative Australian premium hard coking coal for the year ended March 31, 2009 was quoted as US$300 per ton FOB, which was approximately three times the price for the year ended March 31, 2008. At the same time thermal coal prices doubled from the price for the prior year. For the year ended March 31, 2009, gross profit at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) increased by ¥46.6 billion, reflecting higher coal price as well as an increase in sales volume. Despite the sharp decline in demand due to economic slowdown, shipments for the year ended March 31, 2009 were approximately 7.4 million tons, a slight increase from 6.8 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2008 when there were production troubles. • Following the merger with Marubeni Liquefied Gas Corporation (Japan) in April 2008, Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. reported an increase of ¥10.5 billion in gross profit due to the merger and increased sales volume. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥ 214.1 billion, an increase of ¥41.6 billion from ¥172.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. An increase of ¥14.1 billion of selling, general and administrative expenses resulting from the merger with Marubeni Liquefied Gas Corporation was recorded at Mitsui Marubeni Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥44.1 billion, an increase of ¥7.3 billion from ¥36.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. reported an increase in earnings due to higher oil prices and revised transfer price applied to sales of condensate to Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. partially offset by foreign exchange translation effect of the depreciated Australian Dollar against the Japanese Yen and decline of oil shipment. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥153.3 billion, an increase of ¥29.2 billion from ¥124.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Besides the above-mentioned developments, there were following factors: • Interest expenses declined by ¥4.8 billion, due mainly to lower US interest rates applied for funding for Sakhalin II project. • Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar, Oman and Equatorial Guinea were ¥48.9 billion, an increase of ¥24.9 billion over the year ended March 31, 2008 due to higher oil prices. • This segment recorded a profit of ¥6.7 billion on sale of its shareholding in Kyushu Oil Co., Ltd. On the other hand, in April 2007, this segment sold 50% of its stake in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and recorded the relevant gain on sale of the shares for the year ended March 31, 2008. • This segment recorded a ¥20.2 billion gain (pre-tax) on the sale of its entire oil and gas producing interests(*2) at Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Mitsui’s profit share 71.7%) for the year ended March 31, 2008. (*1) Positive impact of the increase in condensate sales price at Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. is not reflected timely due to a three-month time lag in consolidating its earnings into our operating results, whereas negative impact of the decline in condensate sales price at Mittwell Energy Resources Pty., Ltd. is reflected with no lag. Therefore, positive impact related to condensate sales earned during January to March 2009 period will be reflected in the earnings of Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. in the year ending March 31, 2010. (*2) In this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, the gain on the sale of the entire oil and gas producing interests in Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. has been included in and presented as continuing operations. In the consolidated statement of income, the gain of ¥9.6 billion on the sale for the year ended March 31, 2008 is presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). 114 Table of Contents • This segment recorded a ¥14.6 billion impairment loss on property & equipment and mineral rights of Vincent oil field belonging to Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited. We wrote down the assets to the fair value using a discount cash flow method. Future cash flow used for the impairment judgment as well as for the fair value calculation is estimated from its business plan that the most updated oil reserve is produced from the oil field in accordance with the production plan, and the estimate of the sales prices is based on the future prices at the analysis day. For the year ended March 31, 2008 this segment recorded a ¥3.9 billion impairment loss on power producing equipment at a domestic power producing operation. • Other expense-net increased by ¥17.9 billion due mainly to exploration expenses and salvage expenses of ¥4.5 billion for the Mexican gulf oil production facility damaged seriously by a hurricane. The exploration expenses included a ¥6.3 billion expense at Mitsui E&P Australia, a ¥3.6 billion expense at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd.(Japan), a ¥2.7 billion expense at Mitsui E&P Mozambique Area1. For the corresponding previous year, major exploration expenses were a ¥5.4 billion expense at Mitsui E&P Australia and a ¥2.7 billion expense at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 After reaching U.S.$72 per barrel in September 2006, Japan Crude Cocktail (“JCC”) dropped to U.S.$55 per barrel in February 2007. It then bounced back sharply and reached U.S.$95.4 per barrel in March 2008. On average, crude oil prices continued to rise, reflecting strong demand supported by global expansion, geopolitical uncertainty surrounding supply from the Middle East and other oil producing regions, and an influx of speculative money into the futures markets. Average JCC for the year ended March 31, 2008 was U.S.$78.71 per barrel compared to U.S.$63.50 per barrel for the year ended March 31, 2007. Average JCC for calendar year 2007 was U.S.$69.41 compared to U.S.$63.94 for calendar year 2006. The JCC price trend is generally reflected in the net income of our overseas oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies in this segment within a zero to 6 month time lag. Considering these time lags, Mitsui periodically calculates the weighted average JCC price applied to operating results of those oil and gas producing subsidiaries and associated companies for internal reviewing purposes. Such weighted average JCC prices for internal reviewing purposes for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 were U.S.$71 per barrel and U.S.$64 per barrel, respectively. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥219.3 billion, a significant increase of ¥95.4 billion from ¥123.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 primarily due to the following factors: • As a result of Mitsui’s acquisition of additional voting shares in Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (Japan) during the 4th quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., formerly an associated company, became a subsidiary with Mitsui’s 50.3% voting interest (51.03% as of March 31, 2008). There was a new contribution to gross profit from Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. of ¥58.4 billion coming from this acquisition of shares. There were also new contributions of ¥23.9 billion by Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia) due to the start of oil production at the Enfield oil field in July 2006 as well as the Tui oil filed in July 2007. Moreover, Mittwell Energy Resources Pty. Ltd. (Australia) reported an ¥8.6 billion increase, reflecting increased shipment of condensate and higher prices; and Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. (Netherlands) operating in Oman reported an increase of ¥5.6 billion, reflecting increased prices. • The price for representative Australian hard coking coal for the year ending March 31, 2008 declined by approximately 15.5% to U.S.$92 per ton FOB. At the same time soft coking coal prices rose in general by 9%. For the year ended March 31, 2008, gross profit at Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) declined significantly by ¥11.9 billion, reflecting lower coal prices, appreciation of the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar, delay of expansion projects and other operational troubles including heavy rainfall. Although the expansion plan in the Dawson mine has been completed, shipments by Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2008 were approximately 7.9 million tons, a slight 115 Table of Contents increase from 6.8 million tons for the year ended March 31, 2007 due to the above-mentioned operation troubles. As of April 2008, the operational trouble at the Dawson mine had been remedied in general and it is currently concentrating on stabilizing production. • There were ¥9.6 billion naphtha trading losses at Mitsui Oil (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) for the year ended March 31, 2007. • In domestic sales operations, Mitsui Liquefied Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) recorded a ¥3.3 billion increase, reflecting higher sales prices; however, Mitsui Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported a decline due to reduced margins related to a sharp increase in crude oil prices. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥172.5 billion, an increase of ¥91.2 billion from ¥81.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase in gross profit was partly offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses, particularly at Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd.. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥36.8 billion, a decline of ¥7.6 billion from ¥44.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), which is engaged in natural gas, crude oil and condensate exploration, development and marketing in Western Australia, recorded a slight increase in earnings. Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., as an associated company up to the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007, reported ¥8.4 billion equity in earnings for the year ended March 31, 2007, but has been consolidated for the year ended March 31, 2008. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥124.1 billion, a significant increase of ¥48.4 billion from ¥75.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Besides the above-mentioned developments, the following factors contributed to this increase: • This segment divested 50% of its shares in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Bermuda) and recorded relevant gains on sale of the shares for the year ended March 31, 2008. • This segment recorded a ¥20.2 billion gain (pre-tax) on the sale of its entire oil and gas producing interests in Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. (Mitsui’s profit share 71.7%) for the year ended March 31, 2008(*1). • Dividends from LNG projects in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Oman were ¥23.4 billion, a decline of ¥3.2 billion over the year ended March 31, 2007. • This segment reported an impairment loss on power producing equipment at GTF Green Power Co., Ltd. (Japan), a domestic power producing operation, for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Minority interests in earnings of subsidiaries increased by ¥18.9 billion (in expense) related to consolidation of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. by Mitsui in the fourth quarter of the year ended March 31, 2007. (*1) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of the assets of Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 is presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). 116 Table of Contents • Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited (Australia) recorded a Petroleum Resource Rent tax (“PRRT”) of ¥9.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008(*2). Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for oil and gas, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance A survey conducted by the International Energy Agency (May 2008) indicated that world crude oil demand in 2008 was 85.8 million barrels per day, with an estimated demand for 2009 of 83.2 million barrels per day. As of May 2009, general observations on short-term supply-demand balance of crude oil by agencies and corporations in this industry suggest that: • After WTI reached its historical high price of U.S.$147 per barrel in July 2008, it plummeted due to the credit constraints and economic downturn. Entering into 2009, crude oil prices picked up once reflecting increasing geopolitical uncertainties such as Israel’s military activity Gaza region and disputes regarding gas supply between Russia and Ukraine, but the oil market immediately changed due to the worse-than-expected worldwide recession and the prices dropped to nearly U.S.$30 per barrel in February 2009. Afterward, crude oil prices have recovered and hit the U.S.$70 per barrel level recently mainly due to the inflow of risk money into the energy market. • While oil inventory in the U.S. continues to rise reflecting a decline in overall demand, there have been considerable inflows of risk money into commodity markets, resulting in a run-up of crude oil price. Although oil prices have surged as a result of such inflow of risk money, the outlook is extremely uncertain especially since the recovery of demand is likely to take place in 2010 at the soonest based on the demand estimation reported by International Energy Agency. • The following are the changing factors for oil price; 1) development of disposal of non performing loans which constitutes of the bedrock of the recession, 2) implementation of economic stimulus packages by the governments including Chinese government and 3) market confidence risk of the U.S. Dollar stemming from increasing public spending. Our production amount for the year ended March 31, 2009 was 57 million barrels, an increase of 2 million barrels from the year ended March 31, 2008 (gas is converted to barrels of oil at the ratio of 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas to 1 barrel of crude oil), as presented in Table 4, Proved Reserve Quantity Information of Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited). Each of production amounts for the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 includes 11 million barrels for Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd.’s minority interest portion. We expect that our production amount for the year ending March 31, 2010 will be at the approximately same level as amount for the year ended March 31, 2009 considering full year contributions from (*2) PRRT applies to all petroleum projects in Australian offshore areas (or Commonwealth adjacent areas), other than production licenses derived from the North West Shelf exploration permits. (Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. participates in the North West Shelf LNG project.) Therefore, Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited, our oil and gas exploration and production subsidiary in Australia, is subject to this tax. PRRT is assessed as follows: • PRRT is levied on the taxable profits of a petroleum project at a rate of 40%. The taxable profit of a project is the excess of assessable receipts over operating expenditures; and exploration and development expenditures. Exploration and development expenditures are deductible on an accrual basis, including the period when these expenditures are capitalized on the balance sheets. • All undeducted expenditures are eligible for compounding. The expenditures can be compounded annually at set rates (Australian long term bond yields and specified spreads), and the compounded amount is deducted against assessable receipts in future years. • PRRT is deductible for Australian income tax computation. 117 Table of Contents the Vincent oil field project as well as the fifth LNG producing train of the Northwest Shelf JV, while crude oil production at the Tui crude oil field belonging to Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Limited and Mexican gulf operation of Mit Energy Upstream LLC is expected to decline. On April 13, 2009, a fire started in the gas compression units on the Vincent’s floating production storage and off-take facility, and was immediately extinguished. Receiving regulatory approval, production at the Vincent oil field resumed on June 16, 2009 on an interim basis while work to restore the gas compression facility is still continuing. For the year ending March 31, 2010, a change of U.S.$1 per barrel in crude oil prices is estimated to have an effect of ¥1.6 billion on net income as a result of changes in revenues of our oil and gas related subsidiaries and associated companies. Similar to the discussion regarding iron and steel raw materials, actual results of operations are also influenced by production costs, trends in foreign exchange rates and other factors surrounding those subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production The middle- and long-term trends in supply-demand balance and prices of crude oil are subject to far greater levels of uncertainty than recent trends, and it is therefore difficult for the management to make a definitive forecast. On the other hand, with respect to LNG, we are focusing on the changes in market structure that are currently taking place, and acting accordingly as follows: • In the past, the market growth has been driven primarily by long-term purchase contracts by power and gas companies operating in Japan and the Far East. Expansion of incumbent projects and green field projects coming on stream will increase the volume of supply to the market, while demand, traditionally centered around the Far East, is likely to increase by growing demand from Europe and the United States, while huge markets in China and India will emerge. Therefore, globalization both in terms of supply and demand is expected to continue. In addition, as the opportunity for supply-demand adjustments in these markets increases, LNG is expected to become a more marketable commodity. • Long-term purchase contracts with Japanese companies in many projects are subject to renewal around 2015, and more flexible terms reflecting the above-mentioned supply-demand balance trends will be requested from the buyers. In evaluating the opportunities for the expansion of incumbent projects or participation in green field projects, we are putting an emphasis on securing stable supply as well as diversifying our source of supply to enhance flexibility. Short- and Long-Term Outlook on Prices and Supply-Demand Balance for coal, and Our Equity Production Short-Term Pricing and Supply-Demand Balance As is the case with the iron ore business, coal (metallurgical coal) producing joint venture businesses in Australia in which we participate together with major foreign mineral resources companies conclude supply contracts with Japanese steel manufacturers and major clients in other countries every year. Based on such contracts, sales prices are reviewed and renegotiated each fiscal year. For the year ending March 31, 2010, the annual prices of coal have declined sharply due to reduced demand stemming from curtailment of production by steel manufacturers, especially in developed countries. (Unit prices for coal from each mine in production also reflect the difference of respective grades and types.) Up to the date of this annual report, we have observed that an indicative price for representative Australian premium hard coking coal, a type of metallurgical coal, declined to U.S.$115 to U.S.$125 per ton/FOB for the year ending March 31, 2010. Generally, metallurgical coal prices declined approximately 60% from the year ended March 31, 2009. Also, some contracts indicate that the price for thermal coal declined to U.S.$70 to U.S.$72 per ton /FOB for the year ending March 31, 2010. At the same time, in general, thermal coal prices have declined approximately 40% from the year ended March 31, 2009. 118 Table of Contents Fluctuations in coal prices directly affect revenues from the equity-based production at our coal subsidiaries and associated companies. For the year ending March 31, 2010, we calculate that an estimated impact on net income from a change of U.S.$1 per ton in coal price would be approximately ¥0.5 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2009, the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies amounted to approximately 8.6 million tons of coal. For the year ending March 31, 2010, we expect that the equity-based shipments of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies will amount to approximately 8.0 million tons of coal. The above impact is calculated based on the assumptions of an estimated decline in production in line with our holdings after the year ended March 31, 2009, and a specific range of foreign exchange rates for the Japanese yen, the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar. Although a global trend of rising material and equipment costs as well as utility and personnel costs, which was remarkable before the financial crisis, reversed due to the economic slowdown, the cost is unlikely to decline so immediately since the impact of such cost reductions has a certain time lag and the effect of increased unit costs due to lower production volume partially offsets the cost reduction in costs. In addition, the appreciation of Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar may have a negative impact on the revenues of our coal mining subsidiaries and associated companies. Middle- and Long-Term Price Outlook and Supply-Demand Balance and Trends in Our Equity Production In order to respond to tightening supply-demand balance in mid- and long-term resulting from increased demand for metallurgical coal in line with economic growth of developing countries as well as rising demand of thermal coal for coal fired power plants especially in India and Taiwan, major coal producers continue investing to increase production capacity. With respect to coal mining joint ventures with the Rio Tinto group, we approved the development of the new mining area owned by Kestrel Joint Venture in Queensland, Australia. This project will extend the operation period of Kestrel Joint Venture by developing the new mining area, as the existing mining areas are expected to be exhausted in 2014. We obtained the government’s approvals in November 2009. The operation is expected to commence in 2012. The project estimates a maximum 6.5 million tons per annum coal production and 20-year operation. Including those we are participating in, most of the coal mining projects have plans for expanding their production capacity. As there are too many uncertainties, including demand from China and other emerging countries, it is difficult for our management to draw up definitive forecasts on supply-demand balance and prices at this point in time. Foods & Retail Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 82.4 ¥ 81.2 ¥ 81.3 ¥ 1.2 ¥ (0.1 ) Operating Income 19.0 16.6 10.9 2.4 5.7 Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) (3.8 ) 3.1 3.8 (6.9 ) (0.7 ) Net Income (Loss) 1.5 10.4 (12.3 ) (8.9 ) 22.7 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥82.4 billion, an increase of ¥1.2 billion from ¥81.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Food raw material business demonstrated solid performance reflecting the run-up in commodity market in the first half of the year ended March 31, 2009. On the other hand, under severe business circumstances due to higher raw material and oil costs in the first half of the year ended 119 Table of Contents March 31, 2009 as well as lack of consumer confidence due to economic downturn in the second half of the year ended March 31, 2009, this segment has been taking various cost reduction initiatives in the food distribution and retail operations in Japan. The major developments were as follows: • In the food raw material business, broiler business displayed robust performance due to increases in prices of the products in addition to steady results from soybean and wheat transactions. • MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD (Japan) recorded an increase of ¥1.1 billion over the year ended March 31, 2008 due to improved margins gained through restructuring unprofitable businesses. • Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) reported a decline of ¥1.1 billion in gross profit due to the weaker market for wholesale tea products and beverage raw materials as the food service industry has been dull despite firm performance of tea business for the household use. In addition, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded a loss on a write down of inventories. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥19.0 billion, an increase of ¥2.4 billion from ¥16.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. showed an improvement in operating income reflecting the increase in gross profit. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. reported a decline in operating income although the decline in gross profit was partly offset by a slight improvement in selling, general and administrative expenses. Equity in losses of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥3.8 billion, a decline of ¥6.9 billion from earnings of ¥3.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. This segment recognized a ¥4.8 billion impairment loss on MIKUNI COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., LTD., reflecting the sharp decline in the equity market in Japan. In addition, overseas food business suffered and reported a decline in equity in earnings. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥1.5 billion, a decline of ¥8.9 billion from ¥10.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. In addition to the above-mentioned factors, there are following factors: • Loss on write-down of securities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥3.6 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recognized a ¥5.6 billion loss mainly due to the write-down of the shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd of ¥4.5 billion. • This segment recorded a ¥3.2 billion gain on sales of securities, mainly related to listed securities, for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Other expenses-net increased by ¥3.1 billion, major part of which was foreign exchange losses, over the year ended March 31, 2008. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥81.2 billion, a decline of ¥0.1 billion from ¥81.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Food raw material business transactions showed solid performance, partly reflecting a run-up in prices. At the same time, this segment has been taking various cost reduction initiatives in the competitive, domestic food distribution and retail operations. • In October 2007, this business unit transferred 70% of its shares of Hokushuren Co., Ltd. (Japan), formerly a foods and liquor wholesale subsidiary, to KOKUBU & CO., LTD., an unrelated entity, following the transfer of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD.’s business in the Hokkaido area (excluding Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.-related businesses) to Hokushuren Co., Ltd. As a result, gross profit of Hokushuren Company Limited declined by ¥2.9 billion. Gross profit of MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. declined by ¥1.1 billion, primarily reflecting the restructuring of domestic distribution centers and exiting from unprofitable businesses. 120 Table of Contents • There was an increased gross profit in the feed grain businesses, mainly in corn due to increased prices and trading transactions for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Gross profit of Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) declined slightly by ¥0.1 billion due to fierce competition mainly in the tea leaves business and rising material costs. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥16.6 billion, an increase of ¥5.7 billion from ¥10.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. MITSUI FOODS CO., LTD. and Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. succeeded in decreasing general, selling and administrative expenses, which resulted in a substantial improvement in their operating income, although their gross profit declined marginally due to less sales transactions as a result of exiting from unprofitable businesses. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥3.1 billion, a ¥0.7 billion decline from ¥3.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥10.4 billion, a significant improvement of ¥22.7 billion from ¥12.3 billion net loss for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned development, major factors were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill of ¥12.1 billion and ¥16.5 billion, respectively, and moreover established a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. At the same time, a ¥8.3 billion minority interest in income from these losses was also recorded. For the year ended March 31, 2008, its operating results recovered to a marginally positive amount of income and zero minority interest is recorded. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, Mitsui recognized a ¥4.5 billion loss on the write-down of the shares of Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., following a decline in its share price. The major component of impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2007 was a loss on intangible assets at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. (Japan) due to deterioration of operating environment, such as intensifying competition in both beverage and beverage materials. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. used a discounted cash flow method based on its internal budget for evaluation of fair value of the intangible assets, and used its weighted average capital cost for the discount rate in evaluating fair values of intangible assets. Following recognition of the impairment losses (including the loss on its goodwill), the book values of fixed assets and intangible assets as of March 31, 2008 and 2007 were ¥9.5 billion and ¥10.0 billion, respectively. While there may be fluctuations from future developments in the market management expects that Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. will continue to record positive, but not substantial, net income considering its market and its competitive position in the beverage industry. Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. recorded net income of ¥0.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, a marginal income but reasonable level considering strict business conditions. Management also believes that the estimation and assumption for this impairment loss has been specific to Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd., and does not expect such estimation and assumption to have a material impact on our future consolidated operating results excluding Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. For more information, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Consumer Service & IT Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 73.7 ¥ 116.7 ¥ 130.0 ¥ (43.0 ) ¥ (13.3 ) Operating Income (Loss) (12.8 ) 19.0 20.3 (31.8 ) (1.3 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 2.0 8.2 8.7 (6.2 ) (0.5 ) Net Income (Loss) (31.4 ) 12.0 16.6 (43.4 ) (4.6 ) 121 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥73.7 billion, a decline of ¥43.0 billion from ¥116.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Consumer Service Business Unit recorded a loss of ¥6.1 billion on write down of inventories and a decline of ¥3.2 billion due to reduced sales in the domestic residential home business. This business unit also reported a decline of ¥2.5 billion in gross profit due to divestiture of cable television business in the year ended March 31, 2008. The apparel and brand marketing related business continued to suffer with a ¥3.8 billion decline in gross profit. In addition to unfavorable performance in electronics and display-related business with a ¥6.5 billion decline in gross profit, reclassification of T-Gaia Corporation from subsidiary to associated company through merger with MS Communications Co., Ltd. resulted in a decline of ¥14.6 billion in gross profit at the IT Business Unit. Reflecting a decline of gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009, this segment recorded a ¥12.8 billion operating loss, a decline of ¥31.8 billion from operating income of ¥19.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Reclassification of T-Gaia Corporation from subsidiary to associated company resulted in a decline of ¥11.4 billion in selling, general and administrative expenses. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥2.0 billion, a decline of ¥6.2 billion from ¥8.2 billion income for the year ended March 31, 2008. Due to a decline of IT demand and an impairment loss on fixed assets Nippon Unisys, Ltd. (Japan) reported a decline in earnings. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥31.4 billion, a decline of ¥43.4 billion from net income of ¥12.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Additional factors are as follows: • Reflecting the sharp drop in the Japanese equity market, this segment recorded a loss of ¥35.2 billion on write-down of securities, which includes impairment losses of listed securities including those of Tokyo Broadcasting System, Inc. of ¥3.1 billion, securities of Recruit Co., Ltd. of ¥12.0 billion(*1), and our equity share in office building development business in Japan of ¥9.8 billion(*2) for the year ended March 31, 2009. For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment recorded a loss of ¥4.6 billion on write-down of securities, which were mainly listed on the market. • This segment reported a gain of ¥16.2 billion on sale of securities including a gain of ¥11.9 billion on sales of a trust beneficiary right with respect to Shiodome building and a gain of ¥4.0 billion on sales of share in T-Gaia Corporation through its share buy-back program and the merger transaction with MS Communications Co., Ltd. This segment reported a gain of ¥10.8 billion on sales of securities for the year ended March 31, 2008. The gain resulted from the merger of Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. and NextCom K.K. and sales of shares of two cable television providers and Jupiter Telecommunications Co., Ltd. • Considering a decline in share price of Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., which is listed in Tokyo Stock Exchange, we evaluated if the fair value of the subsidiary’s equity fell below its carrying amount and potential impairment is identified. As a result of the evaluation, we determined that the implied fair value of the goodwill fell below its carrying value, and this Segment reported an impairment loss of ¥4.1 billion for the difference. (*1) Reflecting recent decline in the markets of recruiting as well as advertising in Japan, there was a concern that economic environments surrounding Recruit Co., Ltd. would be deteriorated, and consequently its operating profit would become worse than originally expected. We calculated the impairment loss based on the objective data of the economic environment surrounding the company gathered by us and its financial statements of the past fiscal years. (*2) We used a third party appraisal for the fair value of the office building, which was estimated based on the most recent rents of the office buildings in the surrounding areas. Taking into consideration such appraisal price, we calculated the share price, and recorded the impairment loss for the difference between the carrying value and the share price calculated. 122 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥116.7 billion, a decline of ¥13.3 billion from ¥130.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The primary cause of the decline is related to business reorganization including withdrawals from or divestitures of existing businesses; for example, the housing business of Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan)(*), Mitsui Bussan Forestry Co., Ltd. (Japan), two cable television providers and certain textile and general merchandise businesses. In addition, IT related businesses mainly in the system integration sector reported a marginal decline, while real estate businesses in Japan and Europe showed steady performance. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥19.0 billion, a decline of ¥1.3 billion from ¥20.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. The improvements in selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily at Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. offset most of the decline in gross profit. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥8.2 billion, a decline of ¥0.5 billion from ¥8.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥12.0 billion, a decline of ¥4.6 billion from ¥16.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major reasons other than the above-mentioned factors were as follows: • For the year ended March 31, 2007, Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc., which discontinued housing business during the year ended March 31, 2007, recorded estimated costs of ¥5.3 billion to meet future requirements for product warranties and maintenance services. At the same time, it recorded a reversal of the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets on its retained loss. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, there were gains on sales of shares of Jupiter Telecommunications Co., Ltd. of ¥1.8 billion and those of two cable television providers of ¥2.8 billion. In addition, in conjunction with the merger of NextCom K.K. and Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., this segment recorded a ¥2.5 billion gain from the exchange of shares of these subsidiaries with minority interests. For the year ended March 31, 2007, this segment recorded a ¥4.5 billion gain on the sale of shares in Telepark Corp. (Japan). Logistics & Financial Markets Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 62.1 ¥ 55.1 ¥ 60.5 ¥ 7.0 ¥ (5.4 ) Operating Income 23.8 20.9 24.2 2.9 (3.3 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) (10.5 ) (1.9 ) 2.0 (8.6 ) (3.9 ) Net Income (Loss) (14.5 ) 7.5 14.6 (22.0 ) (7.1 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥62.1 billion, an increase of ¥7.0 billion from ¥55.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The increase includes a profit corresponding to a foreign exchange loss of ¥13.6 billion related to commodity trading business posted in other expense-net. Despite reduction of (*) In the consolidated statements of income, net income of Mitsui Bussan House-Techno, Inc. (Japan) for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 is presented as income from discontinued operations (after income tax effect). However, in this “Operating Results by Operating Segment”, operating results of the company are presented and discussed according to line items of the consolidated statements of income. 123 Table of Contents commodity trading activities due to the intensification of financial strains in the latter half of the year ended March 31, 2009, the trading activities at Mitsui Energy Risk Management Ltd. remained robust as the commodity markets, mainly energy market, continued to be volatile. On the other hand, this segment reported a loss due to a poor performance of private equity funds this segment manages for the year ended March 31, 2009. Furthermore, logistics business recorded a valuation loss on real estate for sale. Reflecting the increase in gross profit, which was partially offset by an increased provision for doubtful receivables related to commodity derivatives, operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥23.8 billion, an increase of ¥2.9 billion from ¥20.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Equity in losses of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥10.5 billion, an ¥8.6 billion deterioration from losses of ¥1.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. JA Mitsui Leasing ltd. (Japan) reported a decline of ¥5.0 billion in earnings due to increased provision for doubtful receivables. Furthermore, this segment recorded equity in losses of ¥2.9 billion from investment in a partnership, NPF-Harmony (Japan), reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in its fair value. This segment recorded equity in losses from investments in the same NPF-Harmony and from ASAHI TECH CORPORATION in the year ended March 31, 2008. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥14.5 billion, a decline of ¥22.0 billion from net income of ¥7.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Other than the above mentioned factors there were following factors: • This segment reported a loss of ¥8.0 billion on write-downs of securities due to a decline in stock prices in the markets. For the year ended March 31, 2008, the segment recorded a ¥8.7 billion loss on the write-down of securities including a ¥4.5 billion impairment loss of Central Finance Co., Ltd. • This segment reported a ¥10.0 billion profit for gains on sales of securities including Quintiles Transnational Corp. (United States) for ¥3.8 billion (this segment portion) and BALtrans Holdings Limited (Hong Kong) for ¥3.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, • This segment recorded a foreign exchange loss of ¥13.6 billion in other expense-net, which corresponded to the increase in gross profit. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit was ¥55.1 billion, a decline of ¥5.4 billion from ¥60.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Gross profit declined at Mitsui & Co. Energy Risk Management Ltd. (United Kingdom), reflecting lower trading margins due to a significant reduction of volatility in the market. In addition, divestiture of Mitsui Bussan Futures Ltd. (Japan) resulted in further deterioration of gross profit. Reflecting the decline in gross profit, operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 declined to ¥20.9 billion, a decline of ¥3.3 billion from ¥24.2 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, this segment reported a ¥1.9 billion equity in net losses of associated companies—net (after income tax effect), a ¥3.9 billion deterioration from ¥2.0 billion in earnings for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decline was attributable to the loss on investment in ASAHI TEC Corporation (Japan) jointly held with the Machinery & Infrastructure Project Segment, and investment in the partnership NPF-Harmony (Japan). Mitsui Leasing & Development, Ltd. (Japan) reported a decline caused from increased provision for doubtful receivables. Accordingly, net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥7.5 billion, a decline of ¥7.1 billion from ¥14.6 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned negative factors, this segment recorded a ¥4.5 billion loss on the write-down on shares of Central Finance Co., Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2008 while it recorded a ¥4.4 billion increase in gains on sales of securities including Quintiles Transnational Corp. (United States) for ¥3.8 billion and BALtrans Holdings Limited (Hong Kong) for ¥3.2 billion. 124 Table of Contents Americas Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 116.0 ¥ 78.5 ¥ 78.3 ¥ 37.5 ¥ 0.2 Operating Income 39.0 7.3 22.0 31.7 (14.7 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) (2.2 ) 5.1 3.9 (7.3 ) 1.2 Net Income (Loss) (7.1 ) 5.0 15.8 (12.1 ) (10.8 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥116.0 billion, an increase of ¥37.5 billion from ¥78.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. • Novus International Inc. recorded an increase of ¥27.4 billion in gross profit reflecting higher product prices as well as increase in sales volume driven by a strong demand for poultry feed additives especially during the first nine months of the fiscal year. • Steel Technologies, Inc., which we acquired in June 2007 and reported results for only ten months in the year ended March 31, 2008, contributed to the increase in gross profit by ¥3.7 billion. The increase in gross profit was attributable to increases in steel product prices in the first half of the current fiscal year as well as a transfer of business from Mitsui Steel Inc., which was partially offset by a decline in gross profit for the second half of the current fiscal year reflecting declines in the sales volume and prices caused by demand contraction and credit uncertainties of the customers under the recession. Also, Champions Pipe & Supply, Inc. contributed to the increase in gross profit supported by a strong demand for tubular pipes for oil and gas industry despite a sharp demand contraction starting in the three month period ended March 31, 2009. • MBK Real Estate LLC., which recorded a loss of ¥9.6 billion on the write-down of residential home inventories for the year ended March 31, 2008, increased gross profit by ¥6.6 billion, recording a relatively small loss of ¥2.5 billion in the current fiscal year on the write-down of inventories under severe circumstances in the real estate business in the United States. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥39.0 billion, an increase of ¥31.7 billion from ¥7.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008 reflecting the increase in gross profit. Personnel expenses at Novus International Inc. and Champions Steel & Pipe, Inc. increased. Equity in losses of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥2.2 billion, a ¥7.3 billion decline from earnings of ¥5.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. This segment recorded equity in losses of ¥1.5 billion for Penske Automotive Group, Inc. (this segment portion), reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in its share price. Earnings of associated companies in the steel products and medical health care businesses declined. In addition, United Harvest, LLC (United States) reported a decline in earnings due to a reversal effect of its strong performance from the wheat export facility operation business in the year ended March 31, 2008. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥7.1 billion, a decline of ¥12.1 billion from net income of ¥5.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. In addition to the above factors, there were the following factors: • Interest expense, net of interest income, declined by ¥7.6 billion in the overall Americas Segment resulting from a decline in U.S. Dollar interest rates. 125 Table of Contents • This segment recorded a ¥13.6 billion impairment loss of goodwill. Steel Technologies Inc. recorded a ¥6.4 billion impairment loss of goodwill(*1), reflecting severe condition of the steel products business for automotive and housing industries in the United States. Steel Technologies Inc. also recorded a ¥2.8 billion impairment loss of intangible assets(*1). • Fertilizantes Mitsui S.A.Industria e Comercio, a fertilizer manufacturing and sales company, recorded a ¥3.7 billion liquidation cost of currency options in other expense-net. • Income taxes increased by ¥9.3 billion. The increase was attributable to an increase of ¥10.4 billion in income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests and equity in earnings. The fact that Steel Technologies did not record tax effect on the goodwill impairment loss as the goodwill recorded on its book can not be amortized for the tax purpose, and Ferlitilizantes Mitsui S.A. Industria e Comercio set up valuation allowance for deferred tax assets evaluating the realizability of the deferred tax assets also resulted in the increase. • Minority interest in earnings of subsidiaries increased by ¥5.9 billion. This is mainly attributable to increase in earnings of Novus International Inc., in which the segment has a 65% ownership interest. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥78.5 billion, an increase of ¥0.2 billion from ¥78.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. • For the year ended March 31, 2008, MBK Real Estate LLC. (United States), which engages in the development and sale of residential homes in the West Coast market, recorded both declined sales and a ¥9.6 billion loss on the write-down of inventories based on the discount cash flow method applying the latest market values reflecting directly as a result of the deterioration in the residential market. After the write-down, the book value of inventories at MBK Real Estate LLC. was reduced to approximately ¥20.4 billion. • Westport Petroleum Inc. (United States) reported a ¥11.7 billion decline in earnings due to a negative reversal effect from the high performance in oil product trading for the year ended March 31, 2007. • Steel products businesses at the former Mitsui Steel Holdings, Inc. (United States) and other subsidiaries recorded a ¥3.8 billion decline due to a declined margin from oil well tubular and other steel products. • Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. also recorded a ¥4.0 billion decline, reflecting an overall slowdown in the United States economy. • There were contributions from newly acquired subsidiaries, particularly Steel Technologies, Inc. (United States) of ¥6.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Newly acquired SunWize Technologies, Inc. (United States) and Ellison Technologies Inc. (United States) also contributed to the increase. • Gross profit increased at Novus International, Inc. (United States), a feed additive manufacturing subsidiary, due to improvement in both sales volume and margin. (*1) Demand on the steel products for automotive and housing industries in the United States, which Steel Technologies Inc. considers its principal markets, is likely to remain under pressure for some time. The overall economic conditions in the North America and corporate restructuring plans of the U.S. major automotive companies are extremely uncertain. Reflecting these uncertainties Steel Technologies Inc. made its mid-term business plan, based on which the equity value was calculated by using discount cash flow method and guideline public company method (EBITDA multiple method) for the impairment testing of the goodwill. Implied fair value of the goodwill as well as other intangible assets was evaluated by using mainly discount cash flow method. 126 Table of Contents This segment recorded a ¥7.3 billion operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008, a deterioration of ¥14.7 billion from ¥22.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Steel products subsidiaries and Westport Petroleum Inc. recorded declines in selling, general and administrative expenses, which partly offset deterioration in gross profit. The contributions to gross profit from newly acquired subsidiaries were mostly offset by their selling, general and administrative expenses. Equity in earnings of associated companies—net (after income tax effect) for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.1 billion, a ¥1.2 billion increase from ¥3.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007 led by United Harvest, LLC (United States) which enjoyed strong performance from the wheat export operation facility business. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.0 billion, a significant decline of ¥10.8 billion from ¥15.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned, there were the following factors: • Interest expenses increased by ¥5.6 billion at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and its subsidiaries, resulting from increased interest bearing debt. • For the year ended March 31, 2007, there were ¥3.7 billion in gains on sales of warehouses and real estate by Tri-Net Logistics Management, Inc. (United States) and a chemical subsidiary, Nst, Inc. (United States). Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 22.2 ¥ 26.8 ¥ 25.4 ¥ (4.6 ) ¥ 1.4 Operating Income (Loss) (1.9 ) 1.8 2.9 (3.7 ) (1.1 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0 0.0 Net Income (Loss) (11.5 ) 5.0 4.1 (16.5 ) 0.9 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥22.2 billion, a decline of ¥4.6 billion from ¥26.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting a decline in gross profit of the chemical business due to declines in the market prices and reductions in sales volume. This segment recorded a ¥1.9 billion operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2009, a ¥3.7 billion decline from a ¥1.8 billion operating profit for the year ended March 31, 2008. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥11.5 billion, a decline of ¥16.5 billion from the net profit of ¥5.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Other than the above mentioned factors, MBK Real Estate Europe Ltd. recorded a ¥9.6 billion impairment loss of long-lived assets for commercial office buildings in London, reflecting severe circumstances for the commercial office building business in the region. The financial crisis seriously affected the performance of the corporate sector, especially the finance sector, and amid the circumstances that job cuts and cost reduction efforts were accelerated, commercial real estate market in London deteriorated sharply. As it is reasonably expected that the deteriorated market conditions will continue for some time, we recognized the impairment loss based on a third party appraised value taking into consideration the most recent selling prices and rents of the real estate in the surrounding areas. Mitsui & Co. France S.A.S. reported a gain from sale of office building. Also, this segment recorded its portion of a gain on sale of real estate in automotive and real estate related business for the year ended March 31, 2008. 127 Table of Contents Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥26.8 billion, an increase of ¥1.4 billion from ¥25.4 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting solid performance of the energy, machinery and infrastructure project businesses in this segment. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥1.8 billion, a ¥1.1 billion decline from ¥2.9 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, reflecting increased selling, general and administrative expenses, mainly in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.0 billion, an increase of ¥0.9 billion from ¥4.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Increases in the segment’s minority interest in subsidiaries in the fields of automotive business and real estate contributed to this improvement. Asia Pacific Segment Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 26.6 ¥ 33.1 ¥ 30.7 ¥ (6.5 ) ¥ 2.4 Operating Income (Loss) (1.6 ) 7.6 9.5 (9.2 ) (1.9 ) Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 1.0 1.1 0.7 (0.1 ) 0.4 Net Income 30.6 22.5 22.0 8.1 0.5 Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥26.6 billion, a decline of ¥6.5 billion from ¥33.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting a decline in gross profit in the chemical business due to declines in market prices and in sales volume. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥1.6 billion, a decline of ¥9.2 billion from ¥7.6 billion income for the year ended March 31, 2008, reflecting mainly declines in gross profit and increases in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥30.6 billion, an increase of ¥8.1 billion from ¥22.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. The main factor for the increase in net income is attributable to the segment’s minority interest in Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. and Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. whose majority interest is held by the Energy Segment and the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, respectively. Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥33.1 billion, an increase of ¥2.4 billion from ¥30.7 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Steel products and chemicals exhibited strong performance. Operating income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥7.6 billion, a decline of ¥1.9 billion from ¥9.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. This decline reflects increases in personnel expenses. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥22.5 billion, an increase of ¥0.5 billion from ¥22.0 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Income related to minority interests held by this segment in Mitsui Iron Ore Development Pty. Ltd. and Wandoo Petroleum Pty. Ltd. increased, while it declined in Mitsui Coal Holdings Pty. Ltd. (Australia) for the year ended March 31, 2008. 128 Table of Contents All Other Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, Change(2009–2008) Change(2008–2007) 2009 2008 2007 Gross Profit ¥ 2.9 ¥ 5.5 ¥ 4.3 ¥ (2.6 ) ¥ 1.2 Operating Loss (2.9 ) (1.4 ) (4.4 ) (1.5 ) 3.0 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies—Net (After Income Tax Effect) 0.0 0.1 0.1 (0.1 ) 0.0 Net Income (Loss) 6.5 (7.1 ) 5.8 13.6 (12.9 ) Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 The activities of this segment primarily include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥2.9 billion, a decline of ¥2.6 billion from ¥5.5 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥2.9 billion, a deterioration of ¥1.5 billion from a ¥1.4 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2008. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥6.5 billion, an improvement of ¥13.6 billion from a ¥7.1 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2008. For the year ended March 31, 2008, we recorded a ¥13.9 billion impairment loss on real estate which we possess in Saito International Culture Park (“SICP”), located in the north area of Osaka Prefecture due to the revaluation of its business(*1). Comparison between the Years Ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 The activities of this segment include financing services, office services and other services to external customers, and/or to us, and associated companies. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥5.5 billion, an increase of ¥1.2 billion from ¥4.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Operating loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥1.4 billion, an improvement of ¥3.0 billion from a ¥4.4 billion loss for the year ended March 31, 2007. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥7.1 billion, a deterioration of ¥12.9 billion from ¥5.8 billion of net income for the year ended March 31, 2007. For the year ended March 31, 2008, we recorded a ¥13.9 billion impairment loss on real estate which we possessed in Saito International Culture Park, located in the north area of Osaka Prefecture. Inflation The management believes that inflation did not have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. (*1) In March 2008, Urban Renaissance Agency (“URA”), an implementing body of land readjustment of SICP, announced that it would be difficult for URA to execute the project as the implementing body considering a conclusion on the project provided by the special appraisal and monitoring committee, and suggested that the project plan should be fundamentally revised. As a result of the URA’s announcement, uncertainty about the progress and profitability of the land readjustment project in SICP has increased and Mitsui recognized a ¥13.9 billion impairment loss on land, by re-examining future value based on the current prices in the nearby block. 129 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting policies and estimates are considered to be critical if they are important to our financial condition and results of operations and involve estimates that require management’s subjective or significant judgment about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The following items require significant management judgments and estimates. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Impairment losses of long-lived assets, other than goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization, for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and the balance of the long-lived assets, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, as of March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Long-lived assets ¥ 1,196.6 ¥ 1,264.9 ¥ 1,304.5 Impairment loss 37.6 24.4 17.6 Impairment losses of long-lived assets have had a material impact on our net income in recent years. These losses were mainly due to the declining profitability resulting from deterioration of business environment and the reorganization of business structure of our subsidiaries. Our long-lived assets to be held and used or to be disposed of other than by sale are reviewed for impairment semiannually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. This review for impairment is performed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the aggregate amount of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows (“impairment analysis”). Cash flow projections used in our impairment analysis and fair value calculations are based on the business plan authorized by our management or, if this is not available, on the operating plan reflecting the most recent condition of the long-lived asset. In these plans, for example, we assume: • that the level of most recent selling prices and rents of real estate in the surrounding areas will remain unchanged for a reasonable period in the future; and • that the estimate of the sales prices of the products from facilities and equipment for the certain future period is based on the average price of the equivalent length of period in the past or on the analysts’ reports. • that the most updated oil reserve will be produced from the oil field in accordance with the production plan, and the estimate of the sales prices is based on the future prices at the analysis day. As for the discount rate used in fair value calculations, when expected variations of cash flows are not considered in the cash flow estimate, a discount rate which includes the risk factor for the cash flow deviation is used. For example: • Assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value are incorporated in the discount rate when such information is available; or 130 Table of Contents • When such information is not available, an expected internal rate of return (“IRR”) used for management purposes or a weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) of a company that owns the long-lived asset, whichever is higher, is also considered for the discounted cash flow calculation. Factors to be considered when estimating future cash flows and determining discount rates vary for each long-lived asset because of the difference in nature of the assets and in operating circumstances, such as location, owner, operator, profitability and other factors. Also see the relevant discussion on the impairment losses at the Vincent oil field in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Energy Segment”, at Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd. in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Foods & Retail Segment”, at Steel Technologies Inc. in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Americas Segment” and at MBK Real Estate Europe Limited in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Europe, the Middle East and Africa Segment” in this item. Impairment of Goodwill Impairment of goodwill for recent fiscal years has had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the carrying amounts of goodwill as of March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and the impairment loss for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Goodwill ¥ 33.6 ¥ 52.5 ¥ 37.2 Impairment loss 18.6 2.0 16.5 We assess the carrying amount of goodwill for impairment annually and upon the occurrence of an indicator of impairment. We perform our impairment testing of goodwill by comparing the carrying amount with the fair value of each of our subsidiaries as our reporting units. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to indentify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of the subsidiary’s equity with its carrying amount. If the fair value of the subsidiary’s equity falls below its carrying amount and potential impairment is identified in the first step, the second step is performed by comparing the implied fair value of the goodwill with its carrying value. If the implied fair value of the goodwill falls below its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded for the difference. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. Namely, the equity fair value of a subsidiary is allocated to all of the identifiable assets and liabilities of that subsidiary, and the remaining value which can not be allocated to any identifiable assets and liabilities is considered the implied fair value of the goodwill. Determining the fair value of a subsidiary’s equity under the first step of the goodwill impairment test and determining the fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a subsidiary under the second step of the goodwill impairment test are judgmental and often involve the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions could significantly impact whether or not an impairment loss is recognized as well as the magnitude of any such loss. In case that stock of a subsidiary which has goodwill on its book is listed on a market, we use the market equity price for the first step. In case that it is not listed, we perform internal valuation analyses using discount cash flow model or utilize third-party valuations when management believes the amounts are material. To determine the fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a subsidiary for the second step, we also use internal valuation analyses using discount cash flow model or utilize third-party valuations if necessary. Similar to impairment of long-lived assets, cash flow projections used in the fair value calculations are based on the business plan authorized by our management or, if this is not available, on the business plan reflecting the most recent business environment of the subsidiary. In these plans, we make same kinds of assumption we make for impairment of long-lived assets. 131 Table of Contents Also see the relevant discussion on the impairment losses at Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Consumer Service & IT Segment” and at Steel Technologies Inc. in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Americas Segment” in this item. Impairment of Investment Securities Impairments of equity investments for recent fiscal years have had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the carrying amounts of marketable and non-marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and the impairment loss for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Billions of Yen Year ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Carryingamount Impairmentloss Carryingamount Impairmentloss Carryingamount Impairmentloss Marketable equity securities ¥ 398.7 ¥ 79.3 ¥ 652.0 ¥ 28.1 ¥ 861.5 ¥ 3.1 Non-marketable equity securities 499.9 37.8 557.6 8.7 316.2 8.6 Total ¥ 898.6 ¥ 117.1 ¥ 1,209.6 ¥ 36.8 ¥ 1,177.7 ¥ 11.7 Management principally believes that a 30% or more decline in fair value of a security at the end of quarter for marketable equity securities leads to the conclusion that the security has an other-than-temporary impairment. In addition, if the decline is less than 30%, various factors, such as the duration of the market decline (for more than nine consecutive months), our intention and ability to hold the investment until its market price recovery and the financial conditions of the investee, are considered in concluding if the decline is temporary or not. Management believes that the criteria for evaluating the significance of the decline in fair value are reasonable. The aggregate unrealized loss amount of the marketable securities that have been in continuous unrealized loss position for less than one year and had severity of decline of fair value below cost was ¥36.8 billion. But, considering the combination of length of time that fair values have been below cost, the extent of decline and the financial condition of the investees, we expect that their fair values will recover above their costs while we hold these investments. We assess the carrying value of non-marketable equity securities for impairment semiannually and upon the occurrence of an indicator of impairment. If our portion of net asset measured at fair value(*) falls below the carrying amount by more than 50% we assess the recoverability of the carrying amount of a non-marketable security as we determine a potential impairment exists. Where we have determined that there is an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of the security, the carrying value of the security is written down to its fair value, which is calculated by discount cash flow method or measured based on net asset taking into consideration various factors affecting the fair value. See the relevant discussion on the impairment losses on shares in Recruit Co., Ltd. and in office building business in “Operating Results by Operating Segment—Consumer Service & IT Segment” in this item. We also review investments in listed associated companies for impairment losses using the same other-than-temporary criteria for marketable equity securities unless there are reasonable grounds that the decline is temporary in case that the decline ratio is from 30% to 50% and the decline has been for less than nine consecutive months. The amount of impairment loss on net of tax basis for the years ended March 31, 2009 was approximately ¥54.0 billion, and was recorded in equity earnings in associated companies-net (after income tax effect). (*) For this analysis, net asset measured at fair value means net of assets and liabilities marked to market based on the most recent and available balance sheet, and excludes goodwill or any other intangible assets which represent excess earning power. 132 Table of Contents Tax Asset Valuation Establishing a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, pursuant to evaluation on its realizability, has had a significant impact on our income. The following table shows the deferred tax assets and valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and valuation allowance as of March 31, 2009 and 2008. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2009 2008 Total deferred tax assets ¥ 321.7 ¥ 218.9 Valuation allowance (153.8 ) (99.0 ) Deferred tax assets—net ¥ 167.9 ¥ 119.9 Mitsui determines the realizability of deferred tax assets based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, including all currently available information regarding tax deductibility on future years and ability to generate sufficient taxable income at Mitsui and subsidiaries prior to the expiration of the loss carryforward pursuant to the relevant tax laws and regulations. Management believes it is more likely than not that all of those deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will be realized. However, the amount of realizable net deferred tax assets may change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are changed or if statutory tax rates are changed. Some of the examples we factored in to assess the realizability of deferred tax assets were as follows; • On the occurrence of temporary difference, we establish a deferred tax asset; and, at the same time we evaluate when those deferred tax assets will be realized in future. Particularly, when we establish a deferred tax asset in relation to a write-down loss of securities or impairment loss on long-lived assets which are not subject to depreciation for tax purposes and we have no specific schedule of sale or disposal of those assets, we establish a valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset because we view the deferred tax amount as not realizable. • We evaluate realizability of deferred tax assets on the future deductible temporary difference and tax loss carryforwards at subsidiaries and associated companies. Among others, no deferred tax assets are determined to be realizable, if those subsidiaries and associated companies recorded a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards for each of the past three years and are expected to record a significant tax loss in the current fiscal year as well, considering all our past experiences in determining realizability of deferred tax assets. • Effective April 1, 2009, a new tax law was introduced in Japan that excludes 95% of dividend received from a foreign investee in which an investor has 25% or more ownership interest from taxable income. Mitsui’s taxable income is expected to be reduced from the year ending March 31, 2010 onward. At the same time, Mitsui and its wholly owned domestic subsidiaries are to file a consolidated corporate income tax return to the National Tax Agency as a consolidated group. As a result of the consolidated tax return filing, realizability of national corporate tax portion of the deferred tax assets at Mitsui is dependant on the estimate of the consolidated tax group’s taxable incomes in future. Reserve estimates for oil and gas producing and mining activities Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the company’s interests in properties. In order to calculate reserves, estimates and assumptions are required about a range of geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange rates. Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period, and because 133 Table of Contents additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change from period to period. Changes in reported reserves may affect the company’s financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: • Asset carrying values may be impaired due to changes in estimated future cash flows. • Depreciation and amortization charged in the income statement may change where such charges are determined by the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of assets change. • Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing or cost of these activities. Pension Benefit Costs Employee pension benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions, including discount, retirement, and mortality rates, which are based on current statistical data, as well as the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and other factors. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the difference between actual results and the assumptions is accumulated and amortized to expenses over future periods and, therefore, generally affects the recognized costs in future periods. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate; however, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our future pension costs and obligations. We determine the discount rates each year as of the measurement date, based on a review of interest rates associated with long-term Japanese government bonds or high-quality fixed-income corporate bonds. The discount rates determined on each measurement date are used to calculate the benefit obligation as of that date, and are also used to calculate the net periodic pension costs for the upcoming plan year. Mitsui determines the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets based on the weighted-average rate of return computed by using the expected long-term rate of return on each asset class, which is derived from an extensive study conducted by investment advisors and actuaries on a periodic basis, and the target allocations for each asset class. The study includes a review of anticipated future performance with market analysis of individual asset classes, and also gives appropriate consideration to actual historical returns achieved by the plans. The subsidiaries determine the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets mainly based on the expectations for future returns by investment advisors and actuaries. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions for Mitsui’s pension plans: Billions of Yen Impact of change inassumption on NPPCfor the year endingMarch 31, 2010 Impact of change inassumption on PBOas ofMarch 31, 2009 50 basis point decrease in discount rate ¥ 1.9 ¥ 15. 3 50 basis point increase in discount rate (1.6 ) (14.4 ) 50 basis point decrease in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 1.0 — 50 basis point increase in expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (1.0 ) — See Note 14, “PENSION COSTS AND SEVERANCE INDEMNITIES,” for further discussion about the estimates and assumptions on PBO and NPPC. 134 Table of Contents New Accounting Standards Fair value measurements In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157-4, “Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly.” This FSP provides guidance for determining whether a market that was formerly active has become inactive and a transaction is not orderly in order to apply the fair value measurement provisions of SFAS No. 157. This FSP is applied prospectively for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The effect of the adoption of this FSP on our financial position and results of operations will be immaterial. Business combinations In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141R”). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase. SFAS No. 141R also requires disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. In April 2009, the FASB also issued FSP No. FAS 141(R)-1, “Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies,” which requires an asset or liability arising from a contingency in a business combination to be recognized at fair value if fair value can be reasonably determined. Both SFAS No. 141R and FSP No. FAS 141(R)-1 are applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The effects of the adoption of these standards on our financial position and results of operations are not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of ARB No. 51.” SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The effect of the adoption of this statement on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. Recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, “Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments.” FSP No. FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2 amends SFAS No. 115 and SFAS No. 124, “Accounting for Certain Investments Held by Not-for-Profit Organizations.” This FSP requires an entity to recognize the credit component of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security in earnings and the noncredit component in other comprehensive income when the entity does not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that the entity will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery. This FSP also expands the disclosure requirements for other-than-temporary impairments on debt and equity securities. FSP No. FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The effect of adoption of this FSP on our financial position and results of operations is not currently known and cannot be reasonably estimated until further analysis is completed. 135 Table of Contents B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures are defined in the SEC regulations as financial measures that either exclude or include amounts that are not excluded from or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio We refer to “Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“Net DER”) in this Liquidity and Capital Resources and elsewhere in this annual report. Net DER is comprised of “net interest bearing debt” divided by shareholders’ equity. “Net interest bearing debt” is defined as interest bearing debt, consisting of short-term debt and long-term debt, less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits. Management believes that Net DER is a useful internal measure to review the balance between interest bearing debt and shareholders’ equity for the purpose of improving our capacity to meet debt repayments and/or return on equity. This calculation does not recognize the fact that cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may not be completely available for debt repayments because some amount of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits may be required for operational needs including contractual obligations or capital expenditures. “Net interest bearing debt” and “Net DER” are presented in the table below. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2009 2008 Short-term debt ¥ 454.1 ¥ 464.6 Long-term debt 3,214.5 3,221.0 Interest bearing debt 3,668.6 3,685.6 Less cash and cash equivalents and time deposits (1,153.5 ) (911.6 ) Net interest bearing debt ¥ 2,515.1 ¥ 2,774.0 Shareholders’ equity ¥ 1,881.7 ¥ 2,183.7 Net DER (times) 1.34 1.27 The most directly comparable GAAP measures for Net interest bearing debt and Net DER are considered to be “Interest bearing debt” and “Debt-to-Equity Ratio” (“DER”), respectively. However, these measures do not measure changes in cash position. DER (times) 1.95 1.69 (defined as interest bearing debt divided by shareholders’ equity) Free Cash Flow We define “free cash flow” as the sum of net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities and net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities. Management believes that such indicator is useful to investors, to measure available net cash for investment in strategic opportunities and/or debt repayment, or the extent of reliance on borrowing to procure funds for strategic investments. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. 136 Table of Contents The following table shows a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 582.7 ¥ 415.8 ¥ 239.3 Net cash used in investing activities (290.9 ) (104.8 ) (418.0 ) Free cash flow ¥ 291.8 ¥ 311.0 ¥ (178.7 ) Finance and Liquidity Management Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives Our management believes our basic funding policy is to secure liquidity required for our smooth operations and to maintain the strength and soundness of our balance sheet. In order to achieve our objectives, our principal strategy is to obtain long-term funds (those with maturities of around 10 years) from financial institutions, including insurance companies and banks, and through the issuance of corporate bonds. In addition, we minimize our refinance risk by deconcentrating the amount of repayment of our long-term debt by each fiscal year. In case where large amount of finance is required for various projects, we utilize financing programs provided by government financing agencies and/or project financing to obtain long-term financing. Another strategy is to hold sufficient cash and cash equivalents in order to maintain liquidity to flexibly meet capital requirements and to minimize the harmful effect by the deteriorated financial market on future debt-service requirements. Cash and cash equivalents consist mainly of highly-liquid and highly-rated short-term financial instruments and deposits considering the current financial market conditions. In principle, the domestic financing subsidiary provides a cash management service with wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, and it results in the centralization of funding sources, efficient use of excess funds and securement of liquidity for domestic subsidiaries. The same policy and practices have been extended to wholly-owned overseas subsidiaries through our regional financing subsidiaries, which, in principle, centralizes the fund raising function and fund operation function. As a result, approximately 86% of total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2009 was raised by Mitsui and the above-mentioned financing subsidiaries. Funding Sources In accordance with our basic funding policy above, we choose the funding source among various measures of direct and in-direct financing in order to secure long and stable sources of funds, and procure financing by the preferable method under the financial condition at that point of time. We borrow funds based on our longstanding and wide-ranging relations with financial institutions in Japan and overseas, borrow from government financing agencies, and also utilize project financing. In addition to these funding sources, Mitsui maintains direct finance methods such as a ¥200 billion debt shelf-registration and a ¥2,400 billion commercial paper program in Japan, and utilize suitable one among these facilities depending on the financial situation. Similarly, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Europe) B.V., Mitsui & Co. Financial Services (Asia) Ltd. and Mitsui & Co., Ltd. have arranged a joint Euro medium-term note (“MTN”) program of U.S.$5 billion. Mitsui guarantees notes issued by these overseas subsidiaries. For raising short-term funds overseas, Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. has a U.S.$1.5 billion U.S. domestic commercial paper program, and there are similar commercial paper programs in some other overseas markets. Certain overseas subsidiaries set lines of credit by paying commitment fees to the financial institutions, which were not material in each of the past three years. For unused lines of credit financing outside of Japan, including these lines of credit with fees, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT.” 137 Table of Contents Short-term and long-term debt as of March 31, 2009 was mainly denominated in Japanese yen and the rest was primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Considering the type of interest and currency of our assets, we employ certain derivative financial instruments, which include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts. We enter into interest rate swaps to convert fixed interest rate into floating interest rate (or vice versa) and currency swaps or foreign exchange forward contracts to convert funds in Japanese yen into U.S. dollars (or vice versa). The proportion of interest bearing debt with floating interest rate after taking into account interest rate swaps is nearly same as last year’s ratio, and management believes that it is consistent with interest rate conditions of our current balance sheet. See Note 25, “DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES,” for further description of our derivative financial instruments. Credit Ratings To facilitate access to funds from capital markets, Mitsui and certain of our overseas subsidiaries have obtained ratings from Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (“R&I”), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Standard and Poor’s Services (“S&P”). The ratings as of June 2009 were as follows: R&I Moody’s S&P Commercial paper rating a-1+ P-1 A-1 Long-term corporate credit rating AA- – A+ Long-term unsecured senior debt rating AA- A2 – Medium-term note program rating AA- A2 – S&P raised our long-term credit rating to “A+” from “A” in March 2008. S&P cited the following factors for the change in ratings: • Improving balance between our risk assets and risk buffer; and • Enhancement of our risk management system. Credit ratings are an assessment by the rating agencies of the credit risks associated with us and are based on information provided by us and other sources that the rating agencies consider reliable. Credit ratings do not constitute a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to change or withdrawal by each of the rating agencies at any time. As rating agencies may have different criteria in evaluating the risk associated with a company, you should evaluate each rating independently of other ratings. Ratings may be changed without pre-notice at any time. Liquidity Management Cash and cash equivalents, which were mostly in Japanese yen, were ¥1,147.8 billion as of March 31, 2009, an increase of ¥248.5 billion from March 31, 2008. This increase is primarily attributable to a surplus in free cash flow. As a result, management believes that cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2009 satisfy the liquidity for the repayment of short-term debt (¥454.1 billion) and current maturities of long-term debt (¥373.2 billion) Commencing from the subprime mortgage crisis, turmoil in financial market brought about the sharp drop in property and commodity prices and volatility in foreign exchange market, and then it had much harmful effect on the real economic activity such as the sudden slow-down of consumption, causing red figures on the manufacturers’ books and sharp fall in the stock market. At the same time, huge loss of the major financial institutions in various countries caused by substantial valuation loss in securitized products triggered credit crunch all over the world, and it forced financial institutions to tighten the credit line to the corporate customer. After Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy filing, the credit market conditions were supported to some degree by the massive supply of liquidity, rate reduction as well as credit support program by the central banks and the equity injection to the financial institutions by the governments, but the credit market situation was still required to be monitored closely. 138 Table of Contents Under such circumstances, we procured necessary funds in accordance with our basic funding policy by utilizing the long-term relationship with financial institutions and measures implemented by public financial institutions. The primary source in the direct finance is issuance of domestic corporate bonds, while the primary source in the in-direct finance are borrowings from banks and life insurance companies. Approximately 87.6% of total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2009 was long-term debt and this ratio was almost same as last fiscal year’s ratio (87.4%). For the details of the long-term debt, interest rate structure and the maturity profile of our outstanding debt as of March 31, 2009, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT.” As of March 31, 2009, although shareholders’ equity decreased to ¥1,881.7 billion, a decline of ¥302.0 billion from March 31, 2008, Net DER stayed 1.34 as of March 31, 2009 almost same as 1.27 as of March 31, 2008, since net interest bearing debt was also decreased by ¥258.9 billion to ¥2,515.1 billion. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities as of March 31, 2009 was 158.3%, up by 11.3% points from 147.0% as of March 31, 2008. Judging by the numbers above, we believe that our balance sheet has been financially maintained in good shape at this stage, even though we suffered limited impact by the turmoil in the financial market. As of March 31, 2009, we had given guarantees for obligations of various third parties and associated companies. These guarantees are not expected to require substantial use of our capital resources. We have not had any material payment requirements resulting from these guarantees for the past three years. For details on guarantees issued by us, see Note 22, “CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” With the exception of project financing and non-recourse financing, it is our policy not to conclude agreements for important financial transactions with financial institutions that contain additional debt restriction clauses that may cause acceleration of our obligations, including debt incurrence restrictions, negative pledges, restrictions on dividend payments and various financial ratio limits, and there are no material financial covenants in the agreements undertaken. Assuming that our subsidiaries have sufficient distributable net assets or retained earnings as provided under the local laws of the relevant jurisdictions, there are no material contractual or legal restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. There are no material economic restrictions on payments of dividends, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries other than general withholding or other taxes calculated at the rates determined by the local tax laws of the relevant jurisdictions. We plan to contribute ¥4.2 billion to our defined-benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2010. This cash requirement will be managed under our funding policy mentioned above. 139 Table of Contents Investment Plans and Financial Policies of the Medium-Term Management Outlook For the year ended March 31, 2009, we forecasted total investing cash outflow to be approximately ¥700 billion, reflecting a favorable investing environment. We also plan assets recycling for total sum of approximately ¥270 billion(*1). Facing the credit crunch and economic slowdown triggered by the financial crisis, during the year ended March 31, 2009, new investments and loans we executed were limited to approximately ¥520 billion due to further intensification of our financial discipline. Cash generated through continued divestitures of non core businesses was ¥190 billion due to tightening of credit crunch as well as decline in asset value(*2). Most of these investments and divestitures were executed in the six month period ended September 30, 2008. For the six month period ended September 30, 2008, cash outflow for the investments and loans and cash inflow from the divestitures were approximately ¥320 billion and ¥120 billion, respectively. As a result, net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥290.9 billion. On the other hand, net cash provided by operating activities increased to ¥582.7 billion in spite of the decrease in net income for the year ended March 31, 2009, as most of factors of the decrease were losses on non-cash items. Free cash flow for the year ended March 31, 2009 was a net inflow of ¥291.8 billion. See “Cash Flows”, for further description of cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2009. As of the issuing date of this annual report, during the year ending March 31, 2010, we plan total sum of ¥360 billion expenditure for investments and loans, which includes investments and loans in the Mineral Resources & Energy area for ¥120 billion mainly for projects under development or for expansion, in the Global Marketing Networks area for ¥70 to 100 billion, in the Consumer Services areas for ¥10 to 20 billion and Infrastructure for ¥140 billion. We also plan assets recycling for total sum of approximately ¥120 billion. We expect a break-even free cash flow for the year ending March 31, 2010 led by operating activities with positive cash inflow while cash flows from investing activities continue to be still negative. During the year ended March 31, 2009, the financial crisis led us to implement proactive interventions in achieving a positive free cash flow. Included in such interventions were reducing our working capital, accelerating divestitures of non-core assets and intensifying financial discipline and execution in investments. We continue to work on the initiatives to achieve a positive free cash flow trend continuously and stably. Compared to the assumptions in our Medium-term Management Outlook, we could not achieve our targeted earnings of the original plan, but we expect stable positive free cash flow trend as following efforts: improvement of working capital, intensifying financial discipline and execution in investments, and generating cash for investment by internal financing. Additionally, given the exceptionally high level of uncertainty surrounding financial markets as well as the global economy, we believe that it would also be beneficial for the shareholders in the medium- to long-term if we strive to further strengthen our balance sheet. Accordingly, we would like to maintain the targeted dividend payout ratio at 20% of consolidated net income. However, we also believe that it would be necessary for us to continue seeking new investment opportunities that may provide us a foundation for our future. Even in such opportunities, we try to generate funds for the investments through additional divestures in order to maintain the leverage with a marginal increase. (*1) Mitsui defines Investment Plan with the combined total of investing cash flows of operating segments other than All Other Segment and Adjustments and Eliminations. Financial services from and to Mitsui and its subsidiaries referred to in “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives” and “Liquidity Management” above are provided by the All Other Segment. Acquisitions of and proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities as investing activities in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows are mostly conducted by the All Other Segment which includes the units in charge of corporate financing and liquidity management as discussed in “Funding Sources”. (*2) See “Cash Flows from Investing Activities” of “Cash Flows” for the breakdown by operating segment. 140 Table of Contents We forecast that total interest bearing debt as of March 31, 2010 will remain at the same level as of March 31, 2009. We also forecast that Net DER as of March 31, 2010 will remain at the same level as of March 31, 2009 at 1.34 times. For the details of the refinance by direct financing from capital markets and fund raising—including project finance—from the private sector and government financing agencies, see “Funding and Treasury Policies and Objectives” and “Funding Sources”. Many of the projects in the investment plan involve bidding. The outcome of bidding will have an effect on our actual cash flows and financial condition for the year ending March 31, 2010. Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Total assets as of March 31, 2009 were ¥8,364.2 billion, a decrease of ¥1,173.6 billion from ¥9,537.8 billion as of March 31, 2008. Current assets as of March 31, 2009 were ¥4,419.1 billion, a decrease of ¥639.0 billion from ¥5,058.1 billion as of March 31, 2008. Trade receivables declined by ¥893.9 billion due to decreased crude oil and oil product trading volumes reflecting the decline of the oil prices, in the Energy Segment and America Segment, and also declines in the commodity prices and trading volumes in the Chemical and the Iron & Steel Products Segment, while cash and cash equivalents increased by ¥248.5 billion to secure the liquidity for the financial turmoil. Total current liabilities as of March 31, 2009 were ¥2,792.5 billion, a decrease of ¥649.1 billion from ¥3,441.6 billion as of March 31, 2008 due to a decline in trade payables corresponding to the decline in trade receivables. As a result, working capital, or current assets minus current liabilities, as of March 31, 2009 was ¥1,626.6 billion, resulting in an increase of ¥10.1 billion from ¥1,616.5 billion as of March 31, 2008. The current ratio as of March 31, 2009 was 158%, an increase of 11% from 147% as of March 31, 2008. 141 Table of Contents The sum of “investments and non-current receivables”, “property and equipment—at cost” , “intangible assets, less accumulated amortization”, “deferred tax assets-non-current” and “other assets” as of March 31, 2009 totaled ¥3,945.1 billion, a ¥534.7 billion decrease from ¥4,479.8 billion as of March 31, 2008, mainly due to the following factors: • Total investments and non-current receivables as of March 31, 2009 was ¥2,866.4 billion, a decline of ¥370.9 billion from ¥3,237.3 billion as of March 31, 2008. Within this category, investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2009 was ¥1,275.5 billion, a decline of ¥57.5 billion from ¥1,333.0 billion as of March 31, 2008. Major expenditures and divestitures were: — Additional investments in Valepar S.A. for ¥78.4 billion and acquisitions of shares in Sims Metal Management Limited for ¥23.0 billion, an Australian metal recycler in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; — Additional investment in Multigrain AG (Switzerland) for ¥14.0 billion in the Foods & Retail Segment; and — Major proceeds were a preferred stock redemption of ¥23.1 billion (net of additional contribution made to) made by IPM Eagle LLP in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. In addition to the above-mentioned increases, there were another factors which do not involve cash outflows such as: — Increases in equity in earnings (before tax effect) of ¥17.3 billion (net of ¥99.6 billion dividends received from associated companies); and — A ¥175.0 billion net deterioration in foreign exchange translation cumulative adjustments. 142 Table of Contents The following table shows the details of investments in and advances to associated companies as of March 31, 2009 and 2008 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, Change 2009 2008 Iron & Steel Products ¥ 20.7 ¥ 25.6 ¥ (4.9 ) Mineral & Metal Resources 409.2 388.8 20.4 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 324.5 374.7 (50.4 ) Chemical 39.9 42.9 (3.0 ) Energy 138.5 154.0 (15.5 ) Foods & Retail 81.0 63.1 17.9 Consumer Service & IT 117.1 123.0 (5.9 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 16.5 29.1 (12.6 ) Americas 31.4 36.9 (5.3 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa 15.5 25.5 (10.0 ) Asia Pacific 55.2 53.5 1.7 Total 1,249.5 1,317.1 (67.6 ) All Other 1.8 3.2 (1.4 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 24.2 12.7 11.5 Consolidated Total ¥ 1,275.5 ¥ 1,333.0 ¥ (57.5 ) • Other investments were ¥957.2 billion, a ¥324.3 billion decrease from ¥1,281.5 billion as of March 31, 2008. Major factors were as follows: — A ¥143.5 billion net decline of unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sales securities, such as those of INPEX Holdings Inc; — A ¥117.4 billion loss on write down of shares including write down of shares in such as Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. of ¥18.0 billion, Recruit Co., Ltd of ¥ 12.0 billion; and — A ¥12.5 billion net decline of preferred stock in Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group overseas subsidiary due to redemption and acquisition of the shares and a ¥3.8 billion net decline of investment in Sakhalin Energy Investment due to capital redemption and acquisition of the shares (including a decline of ¥4.9 billion from foreign exchange translation). • Property leased to others—at cost as of March 31, 2009 was ¥199.2 billion, an increase of ¥14.8 billion from ¥184.4 billion as of March 31, 2008, mainly due to a warehouse estate for lease. 143 Table of Contents • Property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2009 was ¥946.3 billion, a decline of ¥70.0 billion from ¥1,016.3 billion as of March 31, 2008. Major components were as follows: — A ¥6.9 billion increase for iron ore mining expansion projects in Australia (including a negative effect from foreign exchange translation of 29.6 billion) in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; — A ¥28.4 billion decrease for coal mining expansion projects in Australia (including a negative effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥38.8 billion) in the Energy Segment, and — A ¥8.5 billion decrease for energy related projects (including a negative effect from foreign exchange translation of ¥5.4 billion) such as Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. (offshore Thailand), oil and gas projects of offshore Gulf of Mexico, Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand, and oil and gas projects in Oman in the Energy Segment. The following table shows the details of property leased to others—at cost and property and equipment—at cost as of March 31, 2009 and 2008 by operating segment. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2009 2008 Change Iron & Steel Products ¥ 24.0 ¥ 23.3 ¥ 0.7 Mineral & Metal Resources 99.7 96.8 2.9 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 130.5 121.5 9.0 Chemical 49.9 58.4 (8.5 ) Energy 436.7 460.2 (23.5 ) Foods & Retail 58.2 63.8 (5.6 ) Consumer Service & IT 55.2 69.3 (14.1 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 50.4 57.6 (7.2 ) Americas 85.7 86.9 (1.2 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa 14.7 10.7 4.0 Asia Pacific 4.9 5.6 (0.7 ) Total 1,009.9 1,054.1 (44.2 ) All Other 9.8 10.2 (0.4 ) Adjustments and Eliminations 125.8 136.5 (10.7 ) Consolidated Total ¥ 1,145.5 ¥ 1,200.8 ¥ (55.3 ) 144 Table of Contents Long-term debt, less current maturities as of March 31, 2009 was ¥2,841.3 billion, a decrease of ¥103.1 billion from ¥2,944.4 billion as of March 31, 2008, due mainly to repayments at Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. and domestic and foreign financial subsidiaries. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2009 was ¥1,881.7 billion, a decline of ¥302.0 billion from ¥2,183.7 billion as of March 31, 2008. Major components of the decline were a net decline of ¥249.4 billion in foreign currency translation adjustments due to weaker Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real and U.S. Dollar against Japanese Yen, and a net decline of ¥96.2 billion in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities reflecting a sharp decline in equity markets contrary to an increase of ¥90.2 billion in retained earnings. Cash Flows Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 582.7 ¥ 415.8 ¥ 239.3 Net cash used in investing activities (290.9 ) (104.8 ) (418.0 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (9.8 ) (185.1 ) 272.3 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (33.5 ) (26.7 ) 9.4 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ¥ 248.5 ¥ 99.2 ¥ 103.0 Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2009 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥582.7 billion, an increase of ¥166.9 billion from ¥415.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2008. Major components of the net cash provided by operating activities were our operating income of ¥394.7 billion for the period and net changes in operating assets and liabilities of ¥69.9 billion due to a decline in commodity prices since the three month period ended December 31, 2008. Other major components were: • Operating income which increased steadily mainly at the Mineral & Metal Resources and the Energy Segment; • Dividends received totaling ¥168.5 billion from associated companies as well as investees other than associated companies, among others from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies; and • Payments of ¥255.0 billion for corporate income taxes. Compared to the year ended March 31, 2008, operating income slightly increased by ¥16.0 billion while net cash provided by the changes in operating assets and liabilities increased by ¥94.4 billion. Net income for the year ended March 31, 2009 was a decrease of ¥232.5 billion. The decrease was comprised of mostly one time losses on non-cash items. 145 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities The following table shows net cash provided by (used in) investing activities by operating segment. Billions of Yen Years Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Iron & Steel Products ¥ (3.4 ) ¥ (3.2 ) ¥ (10.3 ) Mineral & Metal Resources (155.0 ) (3.5 ) 5.1 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects (37.6 ) (85.9 ) (163.9 ) Chemical 3.0 (16.7 ) (21.1 ) Energy (90.5 ) 118.3 (211.6 ) Foods & Retail (25.2 ) (14.7 ) 5.8 Consumer Service & IT 13.6 23.7 (58.7 ) Logistics & Financial Markets 3.5 (0.7 ) 0.4 Americas (17.3 ) (101.2 ) (29.6 ) Europe, the Middle East and Africa (8.3 ) (8.3 ) (4.6 ) Asia Pacific(*) 31.6 (73.7 ) (15.7 ) Total (285.6 ) (165.9 ) (504.2 ) All Other and Adjustments and Eliminations(*) (5.3 ) 61.1 86.2 Consolidated Total ¥ (290.9 ) ¥ (104.8 ) ¥ (418.0 ) (*) The figures of operating segments include the inter-segment transactions, for example, increase in long-term loan receivables disbursed to other operating segments. At the same time, the amounts of such inter-segment transactions are eliminated in Eliminations. Among others, for the year ended March 31, 2009, the Asia Pacific Segment recorded net decrease in loans to 2 subsidiaries owned by the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment and the Energy Segment, amounting to ¥26.9 billion. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was a net outflow of ¥290.9 billion, a ¥186.1 billion increase from a ¥104.8 billion net outflows for the year ended March 31, 2008. • The net outflows of cash that corresponded to investments in and advances to associated companies (net of sales of investments in and collection of advances to associated companies) were ¥131.6 billion. Major components were: — The additional investments in Valepar S.A. for ¥78.4 billion, the acquisitions of shares in Sims Metal Management Limited for ¥23.0 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; — The additional investment in Multigrain AG for ¥14.0 billion in the Foods & Retail Segment; and — The additional investments in IPM Eagle LLP for ¥9.6 billion. The major cash inflow was the redemption of preferred shares in IPM Eagle LLP for ¥32.7 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. • A total of ¥253.6 billion was paid out for property leased to others and property and equipment; and proceeds of ¥34.6 billion was provided from sales of property leased to others and property and equipment. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥219.0 billion. Cash inflows consisted of an accumulation of small factors, major purchases of equipment included: — Acquisition of property and equipment for the oil and gas projects of the Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand, oil and gas projects in Oman, and oil and gas projects of offshore Gulf of Mexico as well as oil and gas projects by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. in total for ¥71.1 billion and for the coal mining projects in Australia for ¥14.2 billion in the Energy Segment; 146 Table of Contents — Acquisition of property and equipment for the iron ore mining projects in Australia for ¥42.4 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; and — Leased rolling stock for ¥26.8 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. • A total of ¥76.2 billion was paid out for acquisitions of available-for-sale and other investments, while proceeds of ¥119.9 billion were received from sales of those securities. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥47.2 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2009, cash outflows and inflows in connection with debt securities for the purpose of corporate fund management were marginal compared to the past fiscal years. Major transactions were: — Additional investment in Sakhalin Energy Investment for ¥15.3 billion in the Energy Segment; — Acquisition of preferred Stock in Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group overseas subsidiaries for ¥10.0 billion in the All Other Segment; — Proceeds from sales of those investments consisted of redemption of the preferred stock in Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group overseas subsidiary for ¥22.5 billion in the All Other Segment; — Proceeds from sale of a trust beneficiary right with respect to Shiodome building for ¥14.7 billion in the Consumer Service & IT Segment; and — Proceeds of redemption of shares in Sakhalin Energy Investment for ¥14.2 billion and proceeds from sale of shares in Kyushu Oil Co., Ltd for ¥8.2 billion in the Energy Segment. Compared to the year ended March 31, 2008, cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2009 increased by ¥186.1 billion. Major reason was proceeds from the divestitures of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. and Sesa Goa Limited in the year ended March 31, 2008. Free cash flows, or sum of net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities, for the year ended March 31, 2009 was a net inflow of ¥291.8 billion. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥9.8 billion. Major factors were as below: • Net cash inflows from the borrowing of long-term debt mainly at Mitsui were ¥51.6 billion corresponding for demand of various investment. • Dividend paid by Mitsui totaled ¥101.7 billion. 147 Table of Contents Compared to the year ended March 31, 2008, net cash used in financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2009 decreased by ¥175.3 billion, reflecting increases in net cash from both short-term and long-term debt from the year ended March 31, 2008. See also “Funding Sources” above, for details of our fund procurement. Cash Flows during the Year Ended March 31, 2008 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥415.8 billion, an increase of ¥176.5 billion from ¥239.3 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007. Major components were: • Operating income which increased steadily in general mainly at the Energy Segment, the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment and other segments; • Dividends received totaling ¥149.4 billion from associated companies as well as investees other than associated companies, among others from our mineral resources and energy related associated companies such as Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (Australia), Valepar S.A. (Brazil), and other Middle Eastern LNG companies; and • Payments of ¥184.3 billion for corporate income taxes. Compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, net cash for the year ended March 31, 2008 provided by operating activities increased by ¥176.5 billion. In addition to the above-mentioned components, the increase was also attributable to positive impact from collection of trade receivables as well as changes in other operating assets and liabilities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was a net outflows of ¥104.8 billion, a ¥313.2 billion decrease from a ¥418.0 billion in net outflows for the year ended March 31, 2007. • A total of ¥206.9 billion was paid out for investments in and advances to associated companies, and proceeds of ¥309.6 billion were collected from sales of investments in and advances to associated companies. As a result, net cash inflows were ¥102.7 billion. The principal factor of the inflows was a ¥226.4 billion (equivalent to the proceeds of US$1,862.5 million) proceed from the 50% divestiture of our stake in Sakhalin II project. On the other hand, major components of expenditures were: — Investments in Sims Group Limited (currently Sims Metal Management), an Australian metal recycler, for ¥70.6 billion and Erdos Electrical Power & Metallurgical Co., Ltd., a conglomerate in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China engaged in power generation, coal mining and ferrous alloy production, for ¥16.4 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment; — Additional investment to combine United Kingdom power generating assets with International Power plc for ¥22.2 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment; and — Additional investment in Tangguh LNG project for ¥7.8 billion in the Energy Segment. • A total of ¥282.1 billion was paid out for property leased to others and property and equipment; and proceeds of ¥115.8 billion was provided form sales of property leased to others and property and equipment. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥166.2 billion. Major purchases of equipment included: — Acquisition of property and equipment for the oil and gas projects of the Enfield and Vincent oil field in Australia, Tui oil field in New Zealand, oil and gas projects in Oman, and oil and gas projects of offshore in the Gulf of Mexico as well as oil and gas projects by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. in total for ¥80.3 billion; and for the coal mining projects in Australia for ¥35.3 billion in the Energy Segment; and 148 Table of Contents — Acquisition of property and equipment for the iron ore mining projects in Australia for ¥26.3 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. Major divestitures of assets included: — Sales of whole oil and gas producing interests at Wandoo Petroleum Pty Limited (Australia) amounting to ¥35.0 billion in the Energy Segment; and — Net proceeds from the sales of the rolling stock for lease amounted to ¥11.0 billion (net of additions of those assets) at rolling stock leasing subsidiaries in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment. • A total of ¥194.2 billion was paid out for acquisitions of available-for-sale and other investments, while proceeds of ¥107.4 billion were received from sales of those securities. As a result, net cash outflows were ¥86.8 billion. For the year ended March 31, 2008, cash outflows and inflows in connection with debt securities for the purpose of corporate fund management were marginal compared to the past fiscal years. Major transactions for expenditure included: — Additional investment in Sakhalin Energy Investment for ¥45.7 billion in the Energy Segment; — Purchases of shares in Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. for ¥24.3 billion (except for loss on write-down) and preferred stock in Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. for ¥20.0 billion in the Machinery & Infrastructure Projects Segment — Shares and bonds of Central Finance Co., Ltd. for ¥19.4 billion (except for loss on write-down) in the Logistics & Financial Markets Segment. On the other hand, we obtained cash through the sales of shares in Empreendimentos Brasileiros de Mineração S.A. for ¥13.8 billion and in Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. for ¥11.2 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. • A total of ¥52.2 billion was used for acquisitions of subsidiaries (net of cash held by the acquired subsidiary), including the acquisition of Steel Technologies Inc. for ¥45.0 billion in the Americas Segment. On the other hand, a total of ¥106.3 billion was provided from the sales subsidiaries (net of cash held by the divested subsidiary), including the sale of Sesa Goa Limited for ¥92.8 billion in the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment. Compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 decreased significantly by ¥313.2 billion. Major reasons for the improvement were proceeds from the divestitures of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. and Sesa Goa Limited for the year ended March 31, 2008. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 was ¥185.1 billion. Major factors were as below: • Net cash outflows from short-term debt amounted to ¥148.8 billion mainly due to increased repayment of short-term debt at overseas financial subsidiaries. Proceeds from long-term debt were ¥37.4 billion (net of repayments of long-term debt). • Dividend paid by Mitsui totaled ¥72.1 billion. Compared to the year ended March 31, 2007, net cash raised by financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2008 decreased by ¥454.7 billion, reflecting decreases in net cash from both short term and long term debt from the year ended March 31, 2007. 149 Table of Contents C. Research & Development For the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, research and development (“R&D”) expenses for the various R&D activities totaled ¥3.5 billion, ¥4.0 billion and ¥3.9 billion, respectively. Management recognizes that individual R&D activity will not have a significant impact on our future operating results. D. Trend Information See Item 5.A, B, E and F. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We use off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business to further our trading, fund-raising and other activities. Categories of off-balance sheet arrangements are as follows: Guarantees The following tables summarize our guarantees as of March 31, 2009 and 2008. The maximum potential amount of future payments represents the amount without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provision or from collateral held or pledged that we could be obliged to pay if there were defaults by guaranteed parties or there were changes in an underlying which would cause triggering events under market value guarantees and indemnification contracts. Such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated losses on these guarantees and indemnifications, and they greatly exceed anticipated losses. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset our payments under guarantees. The carrying amounts of liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect our best estimate of future payments we may incur as part of fulfilling our guarantee obligations. Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2009: Maximumpotential amount offuture payments Recourseprovisions/collateral Carryingamount ofliabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 322 ¥ 35 ¥ 4 Performance Guarantees 11 4 0 Market Value Guarantees 46 31 0 Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2008: Maximumpotential amount offuture payments Recourseprovisions/collateral Carryingamount ofliabilities Financial Guarantees ¥ 216 ¥ 20 ¥ 3 Performance Guarantees 20 5 1 Market Value Guarantees 67 43 — In the furtherance of our trading activities, it is a customary practice for us to guarantee, severally or jointly with others, indebtedness of certain of our customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. As lessees in operating lease contracts, certain subsidiaries have issued residual value guarantees of leased ocean transport vessels, and on the date of expiration of operating lease contracts, such subsidiaries will either purchase the leased assets at a fixed price or will be responsible for making up any shortfall between the actual sales price and the guaranteed value. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable 150 Table of Contents Interest Entities (revised December 2003)-an Interpretation of ARB No. 51” on December 31, 2003, we consolidated ¥11.9 billion and ¥12.2 billion of total assets related to certain ocean transport vessels entities at March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This information is provided in Note 23, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Sales of Trade Receivables At March 31, 2009 and 2008, the outstanding amounts of off-balance sheet arrangements in which certain trade receivables are sold to third parties were immaterial. Variable Interest Entities We are involved with and have significant variable interests in a number of variable interest entities (“VIEs”) that are not consolidated because we are not the primary beneficiary, but in which we have significant variable interests. These VIEs mainly engage in leasing and financing activities. Further information is provided in Note 23, “VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES.” Commitments on Deferred Payments We had no financing commitments at March 31, 2009 and 2008. Contingent Liabilities See Note 22, “CONTINGENT LIABILITIES.” F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations The following table provides our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2009 and payment due by period of these contractual obligations: Billions of Yen Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Balance as ofMarch 31, 2009 March2010 March2012 March2014 AfterMarch 2014 Long-Term Debt(1) ¥ 3,159 ¥ 363 ¥ 641 ¥ 680 ¥ 1,475 Capital Lease Obligations(2) 30 8 12 5 5 Operating Leases(3) 143 36 45 29 33 Long-Term Purchase Contracts(4) 3,264 1,017 1,083 455 709 (1) The amounts of “Long-Term Debt” include bank borrowings and bonds, excluding the effect of the SFAS No. 133 fair value adjustment and capital lease obligations (present value of net minimum lease payments). (2) “Capital Lease Obligations” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum lease payments. (3) “Operating Leases” represents the schedule of payments for future minimum rentals. Minimum rental payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of ¥40.4 billion due in the future under noncancelable subleases. (4) “Long-Term Purchase Contracts” represents the schedule of payments for long-term purchase obligations, net of advance payments of ¥160 billion made to suppliers as of March 31, 2009. For additional information regarding long-term debt, capital lease obligations and operating leases, see Note 13, “SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT,” and Note 8, “LEASES,” respectively. In addition to the above, we plan to contribute ¥4.2 billion to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ending March 31, 2010. The table above excludes estimated interest payments on liabilities and estimated payments under interest swap. Total cash paid for interest during the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥84.0 billion. 151 Table of Contents Concerning only Mitsui which has approximately 71% of total interest bearing debt, estimated interest payments on liabilities and estimated payments under interest swaps were ¥232.6 billion. The payment amount by period was ¥30.5 billion due by March 2010, ¥51.9 billion due by March 2012, ¥55.6 billion due by March 2014 and ¥94.6 billion due after March 2014. The table above also excludes unrecognized tax benefits of ¥4.3 billion. Unrecognized tax benefits classified as current liabilities are ¥0.9 billion. The timing of future cash outflows associated with unrecognized tax benefits classified as non current liabilities is highly uncertain. The purchased items under “Long-Term Purchase Contracts” are principally ocean transport vessels, oil products, chemical materials, metals and machinery and equipment, either at fixed prices or at basic purchase prices adjustable to the market. In general, our customers, primarily large Japanese industrial companies and shipping firms, are also parties to the contracts, or conclude separate agreements with us, and are committed to purchasing the items from us. Therefore, management does not recognize that these long-term purchase contracts could have seriously adverse effects on our future liquidity. As of March 31, 2009, there was no outstanding balance of purchase contracts which have unconditional payment conditions. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. A. Directors and Senior Management. We are managed by a Board of Directors and Executive Officers. As of June 23, 2009, we have twelve Directors and forty Executive Officers including seven of whom are also Directors. In accordance with Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation, each Director was elected for a term of one year. Each Executive Officer has been appointed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is our decision-making body. The Board of Directors determines our basic guidelines and policies by establishing our corporate strategy, reviewing our business plans, and supervising and monitoring the activities of our Executive Officers. The Executive Officers are responsible for the execution of our corporate activities. They must follow and enforce the general guidelines and policies established by the Board of Directors and Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation. As of June 23, 2009, Mitsui’s Executive Officers consisted of one President, four Executive Vice Presidents, five Senior Executive Managing Officers, ten Executive Managing Officers and twenty Managing Officers. The execution of the Directors’ functions (including their functions to supervise and monitor the activities of the Executive Officers) is audited by Corporate Auditors. Each Corporate Auditor is elected by shareholders of Mitsui at a general meeting of shareholders. As of June 23, 2009, we have six Corporate Auditors. In performing their auditing activities, they act independently of each other while they constitute and act through the Board of Corporate Auditors, as the Companies Act of Japan requires. 152 Table of Contents Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers Our Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers as of June 23, 2009 were: Directors Name Position Shoei Utsuda Chairman of the Board of Directors Masami Iijima Representative Director Ken Abe Representative Director Yoshiyuki Izawa Representative Director Junichi Matsumoto Representative Director Norinao Iio Representative Director Seiichi Tanaka Representative Director Takao Omae Representative Director Akishige Okada(1) Director Nobuko Matsubara(1) Director Ikujiro Nonaka(1) Director Hiroshi Hirabayashi(1) Director (1) Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi are external directors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” Corporate Auditors Name Position Satoru Miura(2) Corporate Auditor Motonori Murakami(2) Corporate Auditor Hideharu Kadowaki(3) Corporate Auditor Naoto Nakamura(3) Corporate Auditor Kunihiro Matsuo(3) Corporate Auditor Hiroyasu Watanabe(3) Corporate Auditor (2) Mr. Satoru Miura and Mr. Motonori Murakami are full-time Corporate Auditors. (3) Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki, Mr. Naoto Nakamura, Mr. Kunihiro Matsuo and Mr. Hiroyasu Watanabe are external Corporate Auditors. See “Item 6.C. Board Practices.” 153 Table of Contents Executive Officers Name Title and Principal Position Masami Iijima President and Chief Executive Officer; Chairman of Internal Controls Committee Ken Abe Executive Vice President; Iron & Steel Products Business Unit; Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit; Energy Business Unit I; Energy Business Unit II; Financial Markets Business Unit; Transportation Logistics Business Unit; Director of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. Yoshiyuki Izawa Executive Vice President; Basic Chemicals Business Unit; Performance Chemicals Business Unit; Foods & Retail Business Unit; Domestic Offices and Branches; Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC; Chairman of Portfolio Management Committee Junichi Matsumoto Executive Vice President; Chief Financial Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Financial Planning & Administrative Division, Global Controller Division, Segment Controller Division, Finance Division, Investment Administration Division, Credit Risk Management Division, Market Risk Management Division, Investor Relations Division); Chairman of Compliance Committee; Chairman of Disclosure Committee Toshimasa Furukawa Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer of Asia Pacific Business Unit Norinao Iio Senior Executive Managing Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Secretariat, Corporate Auditor Division, Human Resources & General Affairs Division, Legal Division, Logistics Management Division); Business Continuity Plan Management; Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. Seiichi Tanaka Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Information Officer; Chief Privacy Officer; Corporate Staff Division (Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Information Technology Promotion Division, CSR Promotion Division, Corporate Communication Division); New Business Promotion; Environmental Matters; Chairman of CSR Promotion Committee Takao Omae Senior Executive Managing Officer; Infrastructure Projects Business Unit; Motor Vehicles Business Unit; Marine & Aerospace Business Unit; Consumer Service Business Unit; IT Business Unit Koji Nakamura Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit Masaaki Fujita Senior Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Americas Business Unit Shinjiro Ogawa Executive Managing Officer; Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Kiyotaka Watanabe Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Kyushu Office Junichi Mizonoue Executive Managing Officer; President of Mitsui & Co. (Thailand) Ltd. Hideyo Hayakawa Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Internal Auditing Division Osamu Koyama Executive Managing Officer; President & CEO of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Shigeru Hanagata Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Nagoya Office 154 Table of Contents Name Title and Principal Position Masayoshi Komai Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Marine & Aerospace Business Unit Yoshinori Setoyama Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Basic Chemicals Business Unit Masahiko Okamura Executive Managing Officer; General Manager of Osaka Office Masaaki Iida Executive Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit Terukazu Okahashi Managing Officer; President of Mitsui & Co. (Canada) Ltd. Katsumi Ogawa Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer of Americas Business Unit Akio Yamamoto Managing Officer; President of Mitsui Bussan Plastics Trade Co., Ltd. Noriaki Sakamoto Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit Fuminobu Kawashima Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit I Joji Okada Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Financial Officer; General Manager of Global Controller Division; Chairman of SOA Sec. 404 Committee Takashi Fukunaga Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Foods & Retail Business Unit Takashi Yamauchi Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Shuji Nakura Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of IT Business Unit Mitsuhiko Kawai Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Financial Markets Business Unit Daisuke Saiga Managing Officer; General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division Masayuki Kinoshita Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Atsushi Oi Managing Officer; Chairman & Managing Director of Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Noritaka Tanaka Managing Officer; General Manager of Investment Administration Division Susumu Uneno Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Performance Chemicals Business Unit Kazuhiko Fukuchi Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Consumer Service Business Unit Shintaro Ambe Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Motomu Takahashi Managing Officer; Deputy Chief Operating Officer of Americas Business Unit Mitsuo Hidaka Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit II Ichizo Kobayashi Managing Officer; Chief Operating Officer of Motor Vehicles Business Unit 155 Table of Contents The date of birth, the position as of June 23, 2009 and the prior positions of our Directors and Corporate Auditors were provided below. Directors Name Shoei Utsuda Date of Birth February 12, 1943 Current Position Chairman of the Board of Directors (since April 1, 2009) Prior Positions • 1997 A member of Board of Directors (Director, General Manager of Machinery & Information Industries Administrative Division) • 2000 Representative Director, Executive Managing Director, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2002/4 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Strategic Officer (Responsible for Administrative Division), Chief Operating Officer of Business Process Re-Engineering Project • 2002/10 Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Name Masami Iijima Date of Birth September 23, 1950 Current Position Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer (since April 1, 2009) Prior Positions • 2006 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit • 2007 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit • 2008/4 Executive Managing Officer • 2008/6 Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer • 2008/10 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Ken Abe Date of Birth September 19, 1947 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Director of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. (since June 24, 2008) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Metals Administrative Division, Metal Products & Mineral Group • 2003 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials Unit • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals Business Unit • 2006 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Europe Business Unit • 2007 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit • 2008/4 Executive Vice President, Director of Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A), Inc. 156 Table of Contents Name Yoshiyuki Izawa Date of Birth February 10, 1948 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC (since April 1, 2008) Prior Positions • 2000 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit) • 2002 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Information Business Unit, Machinery, Electronics & Information Group • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Osaka Office • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe PLC • 2007/6 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. Europe Holdings PLC Name Junichi Matsumoto Date of Birth September 25, 1947 Current Position Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Compliance Officer (since April 1, 2008) Prior Positions • 2002 Managing Officer, General Manager of Corporate Planning Division • 2003 Managing Officer, Deputy Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China • 2004 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit • 2005 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Transportation Logistics Business Unit • 2007/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Privacy Officer • 2007/6 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Privacy Officer Name Norinao Iio Date of Birth March 2, 1951 Current Position Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. (since June 23, 2009) Prior Positions • 2005 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit • 2007 Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit II • 2008/4 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit • 2008/10 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit • 2009/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. 157 Table of Contents Name Seiichi Tanaka Date of Birth January 12, 1953 Current Position Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Privacy Officer (since April 1, 2009) Prior Positions • 2006 Managing Officer, General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division • 2008/4 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Privacy Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. • 2008/6 Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer, Chief Privacy Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. • 2008/10 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Privacy Officer, Director of Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. Name Takao Omae Date of Birth December 18, 1949 Current Position Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer (since June 23, 2009) Prior Positions • 2005 Managing Officer, President of Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. • 2007 Executive Managing Officer, President of Mitsui Brasileira Importacao e Exportacao S.A. • 2008 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Infrastructure Projects Business Unit • 2009/4 Senior Executive Managing Officer Name Akishige Okada Date of Birth April 9, 1938 Current Position Director (since June 27, 2003) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Daicel Chemical Industries, Ltd. Director, Mitsui Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Corporate Auditor, Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. Corporate Auditor, Hotel Okura Co., Ltd. Corporate Auditor, Toyota Motor Corporation Prior Positions • 1991 Director, The Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank, Ltd. • 1995 Managing Director, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 1996 Senior Managing Director, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 1997 President, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 1999 President and Managing Director, The Sakura Bank, Ltd. • 2001 Chairman of the Board, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2002 Chairman of the Board, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2003 Chairman of the Board, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2005 Advisor, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 158 Table of Contents Name Nobuko Matsubara Date of Birth January 9, 1941 Current Position Director (since June 23, 2006) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Prior Positions • 1987 Director of International Labor Division, Minister’s Secretariat, the Ministry of Labor • 1991 Director-General of Women’s Bureau, the Ministry of Labor • 1997 Vice Minister of the Ministry of Labor • 1999 President of Japan Association for Employment of Persons with Disabilities • 2002/9 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to Italy • 2002/11 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to Albania, to San Marino and to Malta • 2006/1 Advisor to Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution • 2006/7 Chairman of Japan Institute of Workers’ Evolution Name Ikujiro Nonaka Date of Birth May 10, 1935 Current Position Director (since June 22, 2007) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Fujitsu Limited Director, Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Prior Positions • 1977 Professor, Management Faculty, Nanzan University • 1979 Professor, National Defense Academy of Japan • 1982 Professor, Institute of Business Research, Hitotsubashi University • 1995 Professor, Graduate School of Knowledge Science, JAIST • 1997 Xerox Distinguished Professor in Knowledge, Walter A, Haas School of Business, University of California, Berkeley • 2000 Professor, Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy, Hitotsubashi University • 2006 Professor Emeritus, Hitotsubashi University • 2007 First Distinguished Drucker Scholar in Residence, Drucker School of Claremont Graduate University Name Hiroshi Hirabayashi Date of Birth May 5, 1940 Current Position Director (since June 22, 2007) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, TOSHIBA CORPORATION Prior Positions • 1988 Director, Management and Coordination Division, Minister’s Secretariat, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 1990 Minister, Japanese Embassy in the U.S.A • 1992 Envoy, Japanese Embassy in the U.S.A • 1993 Director-General, Economic Cooperation Bureau, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 1995 Chief Cabinet Councilor’s Office on External Affairs, Cabinet Secretariat • 1997 Secretary-General, Indo-China Refugees Measures Coordination Conference • 1998 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to India and Bhutan • 2002 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to France and Andorra • 2003 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Djibouti • 2006 Ambassador in charge of Inspection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs • 2007/3 Councilor, The Japan Forum on International Relations, Inc. • 2007/6 President, The Japan-India Association • 2008 Visiting Professor, Waseda University, Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies • 2009 Vice President, The Japan Forum on International Relations, Inc. 159 Table of Contents Corporate Auditors Name Satoru Miura Date of Birth March 2, 1947 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2001 A member of Board of Directors (Director, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit) • 2002 Director, Senior Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Unit, Metals Group • 2004 Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit • 2005 Executive Managing Officer, General Manager of Nagoya Office • 2007/4 Executive Managing Officer Name Motonori Murakami Date of Birth November 19, 1948 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 22, 2007) Prior Positions • 2003 Managing Officer, General Manager of Accounting Division • 2006 Executive Managing Officer, Assistant to Senior Executive Managing Officer (Corporate Staff Division), Assistant to Chief Financial Officer Name Hideharu Kadowaki Date of Birth June 20, 1944 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2004) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Corporate Auditor, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. Prior Positions • 1996 Director, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 1998 Managing Director, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 1999 Managing Director & Executive Managing Officer, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 2000 Senior Managing Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer, The Sakura Bank Ltd. • 2001 Senior Managing Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer, The Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation • 2002 Senior Managing Director, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2003 Deputy President, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. • 2004 Chairman of the Institute, The Japan Research Institute, Limited • 2008 Special Advisor & Senior Fellow, The Japan Research Institute, Limited Name Naoto Nakamura Date of Birth January 25, 1960 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 23, 2006) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Corporate Auditor, Asahi Breweries, Ltd. Prior Positions • 1985/4 Admitted to the member of Second Tokyo Bar Association • 1985/4 Joined Mori Sogo Law Office • 1998 Founded HIBIYA PARK LAW OFFICES and became a partner • 2003 Founded Law Firm of Naoto Nakamura (currently Law Firm of Nakamura, Tsunoda & Matsumoto) and became a partner 160 Table of Contents Name Kunihiro Matsuo Date of Birth September 13, 1942 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 24, 2008) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Director, Asahi Glass Co., Ltd. Corporate Auditor, Toyota Motor Corporation Corporate Auditor, Sompo Japan Insurance Inc. Corporate Auditor, Komatsu Ltd. (elected by shareholders of Komatsu Ltd. at a general meeting of shareholders on June 24, 2009) Prior Positions • 1968 Appointment as Public Prosecutor • 1999 Vice Minister of Justice • 2004 Attorney General • 2006 Admission as Attorney at Law Name Hiroyasu Watanabe Date of Birth April 11, 1945 Current Position Corporate Auditor (since June 23, 2009) Principal Positions at Business Organizations Outside Mitsui Corporate Auditor, NOMURA Co., Ltd. Corporate Auditor, NIPPON MINING HOLDINGS, INC. Prior Positions • 1994 Director-General, Nagoya Taxation Bureau, National Tax Agency • 1995 Director-General of Kinki Finance Bureau • 1996 Deputy Director-General, Tax Bureau, Ministry of Finance • 1997 Director-General, Tokyo Taxation Bureau, National Tax Agency • 1998 Director-General, Customs and Tariff Bureau, Ministry of Finance • 2000 President, Policy Research Institute, Ministry of Finance • 2002 Commissioner, National Tax Agency • 2003 Visiting Professor, University of Tokyo, Graduate Schools for Law and Politics • 2004 Professor, Waseda University, Graduate School of Finance, Accounting & Law There is no family relationship between any Directors, Corporate Auditors, Executive Officers and any other persons named above. There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above and any other person pursuant to which they were selected as a Director, a Corporate Auditor or a member of the senior management. B. Compensation. The aggregate amount of compensation and benefits in kind paid to Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers during the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥4,016 million. A breakdown is provided as below. Directors and Corporate Auditors The remuneration of Directors and Corporate Auditors totaling ¥1,119 million during the year ended March 31, 2009 was as follows. Number of recipients Total remuneration paidrelating to the year endedMarch 31, 2009 Directors 16 ¥ 902 million Corporate Auditors 8 ¥ 217 million External Directors and External Corporate Auditors (included in the above amounts) 9 ¥ 96 million Total 24 ¥ 1,119 million 161 Table of Contents Notes: i) Limits on remuneration of Directors and Corporate Auditors have been determined by General Meeting of Shareholders resolutions as follows: for Directors, there is a total limit of ¥70 million per month (by resolution of June 22, 2007); for Corporate Auditors, there is a total limit of ¥20 million per month (by resolution of June 22, 2007). ii) The above amounts include ¥178 million in bonuses for Directors (excluding external Directors), which was determined by the following system. Total bonuses for Directors (excluding External Directors) are calculated as the lesser of consolidated net income x 0.1% and ¥500 million, which is payable to each director in proportionate allocation according to points given to each Director’s position. The Remuneration Committee reviewed the formula and reported to the Board of Directors in advance of the Board of Directors’ decision to establish the formula. Executive Officers The remuneration of Executive Officers (excluding Executive Officers who are also Directors) totaled ¥2,173 million during the year ended March 31, 2009, comprised of ¥748 million in bonuses and ¥1,425 million in monthly remunerations. The Remuneration Committee also reviews and reports to the Board of Directors on appropriateness of remuneration system and compensation levels for Executive Officers. Pension Plans and Retirement Allowances In addition, the aggregate amount of benefits from Directors’ and Corporate Auditors’ Pension Plans and retirement allowances for retiring Directors and Corporate Auditors—accrued prior to the abolition of the retirement allowance system—paid during the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥724 million. Our retirement allowance system for Directors and Corporate Auditors was abolished pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors in February 2004. Up to this resolution, in accordance with customary Japanese business practices, a retiring Director or Corporate Auditor was entitled to receive a retirement allowance, which was subject to approval by shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders. The amount of the retirement allowance generally reflected the number of years of service, rank at the time of retirement and special contributions to our performance. After the abolition of the retirement allowance system, retirement allowances are not paid except for those accrued prior to the abolition. The aggregate amount set aside by us to provide pension benefits to Directors and Corporate Auditors was ¥3,554 million as of March 31, 2009. Mitsui has no stock option plans for Mitsui’s Directors and Senior Management as of June 23, 2009. C. Board Practices. The information in “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” is incorporated into this section by reference. None of our Directors have entered into any service contracts with us providing for benefits upon termination of his or her employment. The Companies Act of Japan allows a company to adopt the “Committee System” as the framework for corporate governance. We have decided, however, to maintain the corporate auditor system because we believe that our Corporate Auditors, of whom two are full-time and four are external Auditors as of June 23, 2009 and whose functions are legally defined and reinforced, provide adequate auditing functions. Furthermore, internal Directors are familiar with our business operations and can therefore contribute to effective management. 162 Table of Contents Although we retained the corporate auditor system, we have decided to adopt certain aspects of the Committee System and have established three committees (the Governance Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee) to provide advice to the Board of Directors. Functions and Composition of three committees The functions and composition of three committees are provided as below. Governance Committee Assignment : To study the state and direction of Mitsui’s corporate governance Composition : Chairman of the Board of Directors (committee chair, Shoei Utsuda), President (Masami Iijima), External Directors 2 (Nobuko Matsubara, Ikujiro Nonaka), internal Directors 3 (Junichi Matsumoto, Norinao Iio, Seiichi Tanaka), External Corporate Auditor 1 (Hideharu Kadowaki) Nomination Committee Assignment : To establish the selection standards and processes used in nominating directors and executive officers as well as evaluating director nomination proposals Composition : President (committee chair, Masami Iijima), External Directors 2 (Akishige Okada, Hiroshi Hirabayashi), internal Directors 2 (Norinao Iio, Seiichi Tanaka) Remuneration Committee Assignment : To study the system and decision-making process related to remuneration and bonuses for directors and executive officers as well as evaluating remuneration proposals for them Composition : External Director (committee chair, Akishige Okada), President (Masami Iijima), internal Directors 2 (Junichi Matsumoto, Norinao Iio) Our Directors and Corporate Auditors are elected at the general meeting of shareholders. In accordance with our Articles of Incorporation, the normal term of office for our Directors is one year and for our Corporate Auditors is four years. However, they may both serve any number of consecutive terms. The following table shows our Directors’, Corporate Auditors’ and Executive Officers’ terms of office from appointment to June 2009 and their shareholdings as of March 31, 2009. Length of TimeServed in Office(From Appointmentto June 2009) Shareholdings as ofMarch 31, 2009 Director: Shoei Utsuda 12 years 64,652 Masami Iijima 1 year 19,964 Ken Abe 1 year 33,417 Yoshiyuki Izawa 4 years 20,986 Junichi Matsumoto 2 years 23,855 Norinao Iio Less than 1 year 9,684 Seiichi Tanaka 1 year 7,627 Takao Omae Less than 1 year 13,814 Akishige Okada(1) 6 years 2,828 Nobuko Matsubara(1) 3 years 1,945 Ikujiro Nonaka(1) 2 years 7,940 Hiroshi Hirabayashi( 1) 2 years 2,694 Note (1) Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi are external Directors. 163 Table of Contents Date of Expiration ofCurrent Term of Office Length of TimeServed in Office(From Appointmentto June 2009) Shareholdings as ofMarch 31, 2009 Corporate Auditor: Satoru Miura June 2011 2 years 19,276 Motonori Murakami June 2011 2 years 24,922 Hideharu Kadowaki( 2) June 2012 5 years 7,919 Naoto Nakamura(2) June 2010 3 years 0 Kunihiro Matsuo(2) June 2012 1 year 1,613 Hiroyasu Watanabe( 2) June 2013 Less than 1 year 0 Note (2) Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki, Mr. Naoto Nakamura, Mr. Kunihiro Matsuo and Mr. Hiroyasu Watanabe are external Corporate Auditors. Length of TimeServed in Office(From Appointmentto June 2009)(3) Shareholdings as ofMarch 31, 2009 Executive Officer (excluding Executive Officers who are also a Director): Toshimasa Furukawa 7 years 20,388 Koji Nakamura 5 years 16,428 Masaaki Fujita 4 years 9,097 Shinjiro Ogawa 7 years 20,646 Kiyotaka Watanabe 4 years 11,913 Junichi Mizonoue 4 years 8,989 Hideyo Hayakawa 3 years 6,349 Osamu Koyama 4 years 6,102 Shigeru Hanagata 3 years 13,568 Masayoshi Komai 2 years 7,131 Yoshinori Setoyama 2 years 16,420 Masahiko Okamura 2 years 9,564 Masaaki Iida 2 years 6,121 Terukazu Okahashi 3 years 12,877 Katsumi Ogawa 2 years 7,243 Akio Yamamoto 2 years 7,241 Noriaki Sakamoto 2 years 4,484 Fuminobu Kawashima 2 years 13,121 Joji Okada 1 year 12,881 Takashi Fukunaga 1 year 2,731 Takashi Yamauchi 1 year 3,926 Shuji Nakura 1 year 2,731 Mitsuhiko Kawai 1 year 10,812 Daisuke Saiga 1 year 2,731 Masayuki Kinoshita 1 year 4,902 Atsushi Oi 1 year 2,926 Noritaka Tanaka Less than 1 year 108 Susumu Uneno Less than 1 year 2,703 Kazuhiko Fukuchi Less than 1 year 10,569 Shintaro Ambe Less than 1 year 2,402 Motomu Takahashi Less than 1 year 0 Mitsuo Hidaka Less than 1 year 6,949 Ichizo Kobayashi Less than 1 year 0 Total Shareholdings by Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Executive Officers 527,189 Note (3) The rules of Executive Officers provide for the term of the Executive Officers as one year starting April 1 and ending March 31. 164 Table of Contents Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provide that the Board of Directors shall elect from among its members Representative Directors, one of whom shall be the President. Under the Companies Act of Japan, each of the Representative Directors has statutory authority and power to represent and act on behalf of the company in all respects. Under the Companies Act of Japan, at least half of the Corporate Auditors should be persons who have not at any time been a director, executive officer, manager or employee of a company or any of its subsidiaries prior to his or her election as a Corporate Auditor. Each Corporate Auditor has a statutory duty to examine financial statements, in collaboration with independent auditors, and business reports and also to supervise the administration of the company’s affairs by Directors. Corporate Auditors are required to participate in meetings of the Board of Directors but are not entitled to vote. The Board of Corporate Auditors is comprised of all Corporate Auditors. The Board of Corporate Auditors has a statutory duty to prepare its audit report each year. Each Corporate Auditor has the right to write his or her individual opinion in the audit report if his or her opinion is different from the opinion expressed in the audit report of the Board of Corporate Auditors. The Board of Corporate Auditors is empowered to establish audit principles, methods of examination by the Corporate Auditors of the company’s affairs and financial position and other matters concerning the performance of the Corporate Auditors’ duties. The Corporate Auditors may not at the same time be directors, managers or employees of the company or any of its subsidiaries. Rights of ADS Holders The rights of ADS holders, including their rights relating to corporate governance practices, are provided in the deposit agreement. Limitation of Liabilities of Directors and Corporate Auditors The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui provide that Mitsui may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, exempt the Directors and Corporate Auditors from their liabilities to the extent as permitted by the Companies Act of Japan. The Articles of Incorporation of Mitsui also provide that Mitsui may conclude a contract with external Directors and external Corporate Auditors to limit the liability of such Directors and Corporate Auditors to the extent as permitted by the Companies Act of Japan. In accordance with such provision of the Articles of Incorporation, Mitsui has concluded with external Directors (Mr. Akishige Okada, Ms. Nobuko Matsubara, Mr. Ikujiro Nonaka and Mr. Hiroshi Hirabayashi) and external Corporate Auditors (Mr. Hideharu Kadowaki, Mr. Naoto Nakamura Mr. Kunihiro Matsuo and Mr. Hiroyasu Watanabe), respectively, contracts to limit their liability to the extent permitted by the Companies Act of Japan. D. Employees As of March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we had 39,864, 39,161 and 41,761 employees, respectively. The average number of temporary employees during the year ended March 31, 2009 was 18,990. Effective April 1, 2007, we changed our reportable operating segments as follows: • We transferred coal mining, nuclear fuel and other businesses which were formerly included in “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals” to “Energy.” “Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals” was renamed and presented as “Mineral & Metal Resources.” • The former “Lifestyle, Consumer Service and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication” was renamed and presented as “Consumer Service & IT.” • Subsidiaries in Oceania which were formerly included in “Other Overseas Areas” were integrated to “Asia” and presented as “Asia Pacific.” Also, subsidiaries in the Middle East, Africa and Russia which were formerly included in “Other Overseas Areas” were combined with “Europe” and presented as “Europe, the Middle East and Africa.” 165 Table of Contents Furthermore, effective April 1, 2008, some of the chemical and automobile subsidiaries located in North and South America, which had been included in “Chemical” and “Machinery & Infrastructure Projects” respectively, were transferred to “Americas” to further strengthen the regional strategies of these subsidiaries. For more information, see Note 17, “Segment Information,” to our consolidated financial statements. The following tables provide the numbers of employees by operating segment as of the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. It is not practicable to restate the numbers as of March 31, 2008 and 2007 to conform to the current year presentation. As of March 31, 2009 2008(*) Operating Segment: Iron & Steel Products 2,282 2,255 Mineral & Metal Resources 570 757 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 10,227 9,717 Chemical 2,752 3,489 Energy 1,360 1,633 Foods & Retail 5,673 6,008 Consumer Service & IT 4,505 4,540 Logistics & Financial Markets 1,445 1,177 Americas 5,544 4,297 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 1,342 1,299 Asia Pacific 2,338 2,196 All Other 1,826 1,793 Total 39,864 39,161 As of March 31, 2007 Operating Segment: Iron & Steel Products 2,270 Iron & Steel Raw Materials and Non-Ferrous Metals 2,425 Machinery & Infrastructure Projects 10,859 Chemical 3,731 Energy 1,516 Foods & Retail 6,575 Lifestyle, Consumer Services and Information, Electronics & Telecommunication 5,481 Logistics & Financial Markets 1,284 Americas 2,316 Europe 1,081 Asia 1,969 Other Overseas Areas 503 All Other 1,751 Total 41,761 (*) The numbers of employees in Machinery & Infrastructure Projects and in Total as of March 31, 2008 have been corrected due to an immaterial error. We consider relations between management and our labor unions to be good. 166 Table of Contents E. Share Ownership. Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers As of March 31, 2009, the members of Mitsui’s Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers who are incumbent as of June 23, 2009 had held as a group, 527,189 shares of our common stock, representing 0.029% of the shares outstanding. None of these shares differ as to their voting rights. This number of shares included 71,786 shares held by Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. None of Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors nor Executive Officers is the beneficial owner of more than 1% of Mitsui’s common stock. The number of shares held by Mitsui’s Directors, Corporate Auditors and Executive Officers, on an individual basis, is provided in “Item 6.C. Board Practices,” and is incorporated herein by reference. In July, 2006, a new management shareholding scheme was introduced, whereby each of Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers are required to purchase Mitsui’s shares through Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Mitsui’s Directors (excluding external Directors) and Executive Officers purchase Mitsui’s shares in an amount equivalent to 10% of his or her salary, which amount is deducted from his or her salary for the purchases through said Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. Employees Shareholding Association Mitsui operates an Employees’ Shareholding Association which, as of March 31, 2009, had 3,639 employee member participants. Employee members declare monthly the amount to be deducted from his or her salary to be used to purchase shares of common stock of Mitsui through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members receive from Mitsui a monthly subsidy equivalent to 10% of the declared amount, enabling them to purchase shares equivalent to 110% of the declared amount. Employee members are entitled to dividends which are applied towards the purchase of additional shares through the Employees’ Shareholding Association. Employee members are able to sell part of their shares that have been reserved for them under the Employees’ Shareholding Association’s plan, in multiples of 100 shares (1,000 shares until March 2009), once every month. As of March 31, 2009, the total amount of shares having voting rights owned by the Employees’ Shareholding Association was 11,537,281, representing 0.63% of the total shares issued and outstanding. Mitsui does not have any other arrangements for its employees that involve the issue or grant of options, shares or securities of Mitsui. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions. A. Major Shareholders. As of March 31, 2009, there were 1,824,928,240 shares of our common stock issued (including 3,770,220 shares of treasury stock), of which 17,319,480 shares were in the form of ADSs, representing 0.95% of our then outstanding common stock, and 247, 076,698 shares, representing 13.57% of our then outstanding common stock, were held of record in the form of common stock by residents in the United States. The number of registered ADS holders was 35, and the number of registered holders of shares of common stock in the United States was 192. 167 Table of Contents The following table shows our major shareholders as of March 31, 2009, including shareholders who owned less than 5% of our then outstanding common stock, disclosed under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan. Shareholders Thousands of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 164,802 9.03 % Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 156,649 8.58 % Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 4G) 107,404 5.88 % Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 38,500 2.10 % Nippon Life Insurance Company 35,070 1.92 % The Chuo Mitsui Trust and Banking Company, Limited 30,799 1.68 % The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 30,375 1.66 % The Chase Manhattan Bank N.A. London Secs Lending Omnibus Account 29,767 1.63 % Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited 24,726 1.35 % Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. 24,083 1.31 % (*) The figures are rounded down to two decimal places. Under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan, any person that becomes a holder (together with its related persons) of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company listed on any Japanese stock exchange (including ADSs representing such shares) must file a report with the Director of the relevant Local Finance Bureau and send a copy of such report to the company. A similar report must also be filed if the percentage holding of a holder of more than 5% of the total issued voting shares of a company increases or decreases by 1% or more. Based on such reports we have received, we are aware that each of the following persons, together with its affiliates, was the beneficial owner of our common stock in the amounts and as of the dates shown in the following tables: Fidelity Investments Japan Limited Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) February 15, 2007 72,786,000 4.22 % May 31, 2007 90,801,000 5.08 March 31, 2008 69,399,760 3.82 JPMorgan Trust Bank Limited Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) September 30, 2006 60,525,493 3.51 % AllianceBernstein Japan Ltd. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) May 31, 2006 91,095,320 5.28 % February 29, 2008 116,987,615 6.44 August 29, 2008 93,716,155 5.14 September 30, 2008 116,241,355 6.38 November 28, 2008 90,056,395 4.93 168 Table of Contents Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) August 31, 2006 97,028,174 5.55 % January 15, 2007 72,867,946 4.20 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Ownership as of Shares ofCommon Stock Owned(*1) Percentage ofCommon Stock Issued(*2) January 29, 2007 86,629,949 5.02 % October 8, 2007 147,839,726 8.16 August 25, 2008 130,666,673 7.16 (*1) The numbers of shares of common stock owned include those of convertible bonds owned that are calculated on a fully diluted basis. (*2) The percentage figures are calculated as of the dates shown in the table. Percentage figures as of March 31, 2009 are not necessarily available from the aforementioned reports. The voting rights of our major shareholders do not differ from the voting rights of other shareholders. To our knowledge, we are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any other corporations, by any foreign government or by any other natural or legal persons severally or jointly. We know of no arrangements which may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of Mitsui. B. Related Party Transactions When conducting our business operations throughout the world, we form alliances with leading partner companies in Japan and overseas, including manufacturers and companies in the field of natural resources, such as energy and ferrous materials. In addition to investing in, or providing loans to, associated companies where we are a minority shareholder, we conduct selling and purchasing transactions of various products on a recurring basis with such associated companies. Our principal associated companies include Valepar S.A. (18.24%), Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty. Ltd. (50.00%), Sims Metal Management Limited (The company changed its name from Sims Group Limited.) (19.99%), P.T. Paiton Energy (36.32%), IPM (UK) Power Holdings (26.32%), and Penske Automotive Group, Inc. (17.00%), among others. The following table shows information regarding account balances and transactions with associated companies: Billions of Yen As of March 31, 2009 Accounts receivable, trade ¥ 169 Advances to associated companies 160 Accounts payable, trade 39 Dividends received from associated companies for the year ended March 31, 2009 amounted to ¥97 billion. 169 Table of Contents See Note 6, “INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO ASSOCIATED COMPANIES” to our consolidated financial statements. Prices applied in transactions with associated companies are computed in the same way that such prices would be calculated in transactions with unrelated third parties. In addition, when associated companies are counterparties in transactions with us and we conduct such business under long-term procurement and/or sales contracts, in general, we conclude a corresponding sales contract with the purchasers (unrelated parties) of goods procured by us and/or with suppliers (unrelated parties) of the goods we sell to associated companies. Regarding any other commitments related to transactions with associated companies, we do not normally assume risk in excess of its percentage of share ownership in an associated company. In furtherance of their trading activities, it is customary practice for us to loan or guarantee, severally and jointly with others, indebtedness of certain customers and suppliers and of certain associated companies as well as to guarantee the performance of contracts by such entities. At March 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of loans (including ¥74 billion guarantees) relating to associated companies was ¥281billion. The largest amount outstanding as of March 31, 2009 was ¥30 billion loan with interest to P&M Drilling International B.V., which engages in capital lease operation in Netherlands. The loan was mainly from Mitsui. Other major loans to associated companies are related to the power plant project and the lease operation of ships. In the ordinary course of our business, we have entered into transactions with various organizations with which certain of our Directors and Senior Management are associated, but no material transactions have been entered into for the three-year period ended March 31, 2009. As of March 31, 2009, no person was the beneficial owner of more than 10% of our common stock. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel. Not applicable. Item 8. Financial Information. A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information. Consolidated Financial Statements The audited consolidated financial statements required by this item are included elsewhere in this annual report. Export Sales The total amount of revenues from export transactions for the year ended March 31, 2009 was ¥494 billion or 9% of total revenue of ¥5,535 billion. Legal Proceedings Various claims and legal actions are pending against us in respect of contractual obligations and other matters arising out of the conduct of our business. Appropriate provision has been recorded for the estimated loss on claims and legal actions. In the opinion of management, any liability will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Dividend Policy It is Mitsui’s basic policy to declare dividends twice per year. The record date for year-end dividends is March 31 and the record date for interim dividends is September 30. For a discussion of dividend distribution provisions under the Companies Act of Japan and Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation, see “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 170 Table of Contents In order to maximize shareholder value, we have sought to maintain an optimal balance between (1) achieving sustainable growth through strategic investments in areas of our core strength and growth and (2) paying out cash dividends as direct compensation to shareholders with the target dividend payout ratio of 20% of consolidated net income. For the year ended March 31, 2009, due to the drastic decline in earnings especially during the second half of the fiscal year, the dividend amount calculated in accordance with the payout ratio of 20% of consolidated net income was lower than the interim dividends of ¥25 per share which we had already paid. Accordingly, we determined not to pay any additional year-end dividends. For the year ending March 31, 2010, we intend to make a dividend proposal upon reviewing the operating results. The key factors for the proposal are as follows: (1) In light of the current business circumstances, we forecast a substantial decline in earnings for the year ending March 31, 2010 due to prolonged economic downturn and decline in commodity prices, although we have recently started to see a few bright spots in the markets which suggest there may be some recovery in the near future. (2) Given the exceptionally high level of uncertainty surrounding financial markets as well as the global economy, we believe that it would be for the benefit of the shareholders in the medium- to long-term if we strive to further strengthen our balance sheet. (3) We also believe that it would be necessary for us to continue seeking new investment opportunities that may provide us a foundation for our future with the utmost financial discipline. Accordingly, we currently plan to maintain the target dividend payout ratio of 20% of consolidated net income. We will continue to review the dividend policy taking into consideration the business environment, future trend of the investing activities, free cash flow level, interest bearing debt level and return on equity. B. Significant Changes Except as disclosed in this annual report, there has not been any significant change since the date of the latest annual financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Item 9. The Offer and Listing. A. Offer and Listing Details. The primary market for Mitsui’s common stock is the Tokyo Stock Exchange, or TSE. Mitsui’s common stock is traded on the First Section of the TSE and is also listed on four other stock exchanges in Japan (Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka and Sapporo Stock Exchanges). Mitsui’s American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”), each representing 20 shares of common stock, are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol MITSY. American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”), each evidencing one or more ADSs, were originally issued pursuant to a Deposit Agreement in May 1963, as amended from time to time, that we entered into with Citibank N.A. of New York as Depositary and the holders of the ADRs. 171 Table of Contents The following table provides the reported high and low closing sales prices of our common stock on the TSE and the reported high and low closing bid price quotations per ADS for the period indicated: TSE NASDAQ Price per Share ofCommon Stock(Yen) Price per ADS(U.S. dollars)(1) High Low High Low Year ended March 31: 2005 ¥ 1,074 ¥ 773 $ 206.20 $ 137.50 2006 1,731 908 292.66 171.50 2007 2,315 1,427 382.21 245.00 2008 3,080 1,704 538.92 336.25 2009 2,750 691 526.70 141.44 Year ended March 31, 2008: First quarter ¥ 2,595 ¥ 2,040 $ 416.60 $ 347.21 Second quarter 2,880 2,005 501.67 371.60 Third quarter 3,080 2,270 538.92 395.02 Fourth quarter 2,405 1,704 463.97 336.25 Year ended March 31, 2009: First quarter ¥ 2,750 ¥ 2,040 $ 526.70 $ 400.04 Second quarter 2,425 1,278 454.20 212.45 Third quarter 1,352 691 257.00 141.44 Fourth quarter 1,077 806 232.77 163.53 Year ending March 31, 2010: First quarter ¥ 1,308 ¥ 1,024 $ 271.90 $ 211.53 Month of: January 2009 ¥ 1,052 ¥ 875 $ 220.00 $ 190.62 February 2009 1,045 872 232.77 176.42 March 2009 1,077 806 219.01 163.53 April 2009 1,206 1,024 242.80 211.53 May 2009 1,216 1,075 253.72 227.14 June 2009 1,308 1,111 271.90 233.10 (1) All fractional figures of the prices per ADS are rounded to the nearest two decimal points. Share prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges set daily price limits, which limit the maximum range of fluctuation within a single trading day. Daily price limits are set according to the previous day’s closing price or special quote. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. On July 10, 2009, the closing sales price per share of our common stock on the TSE was ¥1,049, and the closing sales price per ADS on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was U.S.$225.17. B. Plan of Distribution. Not applicable. C. Markets. See “Item 9.A. Offer and Listing Details.” 172 Table of Contents D. Selling Shareholders. Not applicable. E. Dilution. Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue. Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information. A. Share Capital. Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association. General Set forth below is information relating to the organization and common stock of Mitsui, including brief summaries of the relevant provisions of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation and Share Handling Regulations adopted by Mitsui’s Board of Directors, as currently in effect, and of the Companies Act of Japan and related legislation. Organization Mitsui is a corporation (kabushiki kaisha) incorporated in Japan under the Companies Act of Japan. It is registered in the Commercial Register (shogyo tokibo) maintained by the Tokyo Legal Affairs Bureau and several other registry offices of the Ministry of Justice. Objects and Purposes Article 2 of Mitsui’s Articles of Incorporation provides that our objects are to engage in the following business: 1. Foreign trade, purchases and sales, wholesale, agency and brokerage business relating to the following commodities: (1) Ferrous and non-ferrous metals and their raw materials, manufactured goods, and minerals. (2) Coal, petroleum, natural gas and other fuels and their by-products. (3) All kinds of machines, appliances (including measuring instruments and medical apparatus) and equipment including manufacturing equipment, communications equipment and antipollution equipment, rolling stock and vehicles, ships and boats, aerospace equipment and aircraft, and parts for the foregoing. (4) All kinds of chemical products, salt, fertilizers, high-pressure gas, explosives, pharmaceuticals (including medicines, non-medicinal drugs, medicine for veterinary use, narcotics, poisons and stimulants), radio isotopes, cosmetics, and raw materials for the foregoing. (5) Cereals, sugar, oils and fats, feeds and their raw materials; livestock, agricultural, dairy and marine products, processed foods, alcoholic beverages and other foodstuffs and drinks. (6) All kinds of textile products and their raw materials. 173 Table of Contents (7) All kinds of fur products and raw fur. (8) Lumber, cement, other building materials and housing-related equipment. (9) Rubber, pulp, paper and their manufactured goods; tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and sundry goods. (10) Industrial water and drinking water. 2. Exploration, development, manufacturing, processing, scrapping and recycling business relating to the above-mentioned items. 3. Acquisition, planning, preservation, utilization and disposition of copyright, patents and other intellectual property rights, know-how, systems technology and other software, including acting as an intermediary in such transactions. 