ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS K2’s strategic plan, involving growth through the acquisition of other companies, may not succeed. K2’s strategic plan involves growth through the acquisition of other companies. Such growth involves a number of risks, including: • the difficulties related to combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • the substantial diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • the assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including unforeseen liabilities; 13 Table of Contents • the failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • the dilution of existing stockholders and convertible note holders due to the issuance of equity securities, utilization of cash reserves, or incurrence of debt in order to fund the acquisitions; • the potentially substantial transaction costs associated with acquisitions; • the difficulties related to assimilating the products, personnel and systems of an acquired business and to integrating distribution and other operational capabilities; and • the difficulties in applying K2’s internal controls to an acquired business. Current and future financings may place a significant debt burden on K2. K2 has incurred substantial indebtedness. At December 31, 2005, K2 had $437.3 million of outstanding debt, including $95.3 million of borrowings outstanding under its $250.0 million revolving credit facility, $43.0 million outstanding under various foreign lending arrangements, outstanding convertible debentures of $100.0 million in the aggregate less $1.0 million of unamortized value associated with warrants and $200.0 million outstanding in senior notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2005 K2 had available borrowings under its revolving credit facility of $145.3 million. K2’s substantial indebtedness, as well as potential future financings, could, among other things: • adversely affect K2’s ability to expand its business, market its products and make investments and capital expenditures; • adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; • adversely affect the ability of K2 to pursue its acquisition strategy; and • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. K2 faces intense competition and potential competition from companies with greater resources, and, if it is unable to compete effectively with these companies, its business could be harmed. The markets for sporting goods and recreational products in which K2 competes are generally highly competitive, especially as to product innovation, performance and styling, price, marketing and delivery. Competition regarding these products, other than active wear, consists of a relatively small number of large producers, some of whom have greater financial and other resources than K2. In addition, many of K2’s competitors offer sports and recreational equipment not currently sold by K2 and may be able to leverage these broader product offerings to adversely affect K2’s competitive market position. Further, there are no significant technological or capital barriers to entry into the markets for many sporting goods and recreational products. The sales of leisure products are also affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, and sporting goods and recreational products face competition from other leisure activities. K2’s Marine and Outdoor segment products are, in most instances, subject to price competition, ranging from moderate in marine antennas and monofilament line to intense for commodity-type products. Many of K2’s marine and outdoor competitors have greater financial and other resources than K2. Certain K2 businesses are highly seasonal Certain K2 businesses are highly seasonal. Historically, certain of K2’s businesses, such as fishing tackle and water sports products, baseball and softball, skis and snowboards, winter apparel, bikes, and in-line skates have experienced seasonal swings in their businesses. This seasonality impacts K2’s working capital requirements and hence overall financing needs. In addition, K2’s borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility is impacted by the seasonal change in receivables and inventory. The seasonality of K2’s businesses has also led to higher income levels in the second half of the year compared to the first half of the year. 14 Table of Contents A large portion of K2’s sales are to sporting goods retailers. Many of K2’s smaller retailers and some larger retailers are not strongly capitalized. Adverse conditions in the sporting goods retail industry can adversely impact the ability of retailers to purchase K2 products, or could lead retailers to request credit terms that would adversely affect K2’s cash flow and involve significant risks of nonpayment. Purchasing decisions made by a small number of large format sporting goods retailers can have a significant impact on K2’s results. Although the sporting goods manufacturing industry is highly fragmented, many of the retail customers that purchase sporting goods are highly concentrated. Large format sporting goods retailers are important to K2’s results of operations, and Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 15% of K2’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. Due to their size, these retailers may demand better prices and terms from K2, and these demands may have an adverse impact on K2’s margins. In addition, if any of these large format sporting goods retailers were to decide to materially reduce the amounts or types of K2 products that they purchase, such decision would have a material adverse impact on K2’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changing consumer tastes and styles as well as adverse economic developments could harm K2’s business. Consumer demand for recreational products is strongly influenced by matters of taste and style. K2 cannot assure you that K2 will successfully develop new products to address new or shifting consumer demand. An unexpected change in consumer tastes or product demand could seriously harm K2’s business. K2’s inability to timely and successfully respond to developments and changing styles could hurt its competitive position or render its products noncompetitive. K2 cannot assure you that demand for its products will remain constant. The sales of leisure products are affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, both of which are difficult to predict. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, increasing energy costs, declining consumer confidence and significant declines in the stock market could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending for K2’s products. K2’s financial results vary from quarter to quarter, which could hurt K2’s business and the market price of its stock. Various factors affect K2’s quarterly operating results and some of them are not within K2’s control. They include, among others: • weather and snow conditions; • the timing and introduction of new products; • the mix of products sold; • the timing of significant orders from and shipments to customers; • product pricing and discounts; • the timing of its acquisitions of other companies and businesses; and • general economic conditions. These and other factors are likely to cause financial results of K2 to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The trading price of K2 common stock could decline dramatically. Based on the foregoing, K2 believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations may not be meaningful. Therefore, purchasers of K2 common stock should not view K2’s historical results of operations as reliable indications of its future performance. 15 Table of Contents K2 may not be able to attract or retain the management employees necessary to remain competitive in its industry; the loss of one or more of K2’s key personnel, including Mr. Richard J. Heckmann, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of K2, and J. Wayne Merck, President and Chief Operating Officer, could have a material adverse effect on K2’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. K2’s continued success depends on the retention, recruitment and continued contributions of K2’s key management, finance, marketing and staff personnel, many of whom would be difficult or impossible to replace. The competition for qualified personnel is intense. K2 cannot assure you that it will be able to retain its current personnel or recruit the key personnel it requires. Specifically, Mr. Richard J. Heckmann, K2’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has been fundamental to developing K2’s growth strategy and, without his services, K2’s implementation of its growth strategy might fail. The loss of services of members of K2’s key personnel, including Mr. Heckmann and Mr. Merck, could have a material adverse effect on K2’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. International operations, unfavorable political developments, natural disasters and weak foreign economies may seriously harm K2’s financial condition. K2’s business is dependent on international trade, both for sales of finished goods and low-cost manufacturing and sourcing of products. K2’s three principal markets are North America, Europe and Asia. K2’s revenues from international operations were approximately 27.2% of K2’s sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. K2 expects that its revenues from international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of its total revenues. Any political developments adversely affecting trade with Europe or Asia (especially China) or a natural disaster to any of K2’s facilities therein could severely impact K2’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. K2’s international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • recessions in foreign economies; • the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; • longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • social, political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • acts of war and terrorism; • ability to finance foreign operations; • changes in consumer tastes and trends; • natural disasters or other crises, such as the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) and Avian “bird” flu; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • U.S. government licensing requirements for export; and • currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations, including the potential revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi (“Yuan”). In addition, K2 will continue to outsource a number of its supply contracts to entities in foreign nations and will continue to be highly reliant on overseas manufacturing. Specifically, K2 maintains significant manufacturing capacity in China and Costa Rica. Political or economic developments adversely affecting the operation of these facilities could result in late deliveries, lower sales and earnings, and unanticipated costs. 16 Table of Contents Significant price volatility or interruptions in supply of K2’s raw materials may result in increased costs that it may be unable to pass on to customers, which could reduce profitability. The prices of the raw materials, such as resin-based products, steel and aluminum, that K2 purchases from third parties are cyclical and volatile. K2 purchases a substantial portion of these raw materials from third party suppliers, and the cost of these raw materials represents a substantial portion of our cost of products sold. In recent periods, K2 has experienced significantly higher crude oil prices, which have resulted in increased prices for resin-based products. In addition, the fluctuations of supply and demand for raw materials have led to increased price volatility. Although K2 frequently enters into supply agreements to acquire these raw materials, these agreements typically provide for market based pricing and provide K2 only limited protection against price volatility. While K2 attempts to match cost increases with corresponding product price increases, K2 is not always able to raise product prices immediately or at all. Timing differences between raw material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases are negotiated only monthly or less often, have had and may continue to have a negative effect on profitability. If any of K2’s suppliers is unable to meet its obligations under present supply agreements, K2 may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials from other sources, and K2 may not be able to increase prices for finished products to recoup the higher raw materials cost. In addition, if any of the raw materials that K2 uses becomes unavailable within the geographic area from which they are now sourced, then K2 may not be able to obtain cost-effective substitutes. Any underlying cost increase that K2 is not able to pass on to customers or any interruption in supply of raw materials could increase K2’s costs or decrease revenues, which could reduce profitability. K2 may be required to recognize future intangible impairment charges. Pursuant to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), K2 is required to test its goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine if they are impaired. Such tests are required to be done annually or between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value the asset below its carrying amount. Disruptions to K2’s business, protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other intangible asset impairments. Future impairment charges could substantially affect K2’s reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, such charges would further reduce K2’s ability to make cash dividends, investments, stock repurchases and early payment of debt subordinated to K2’s 7.375% senior notes due July 2014 because of restrictions set forth in K2’s indenture governing such notes. Changes in currency exchange rates could affect K2’s revenues. A significant portion of K2’s production and approximately 25% of K2’s sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to exchange rate fluctuation risk. Although K2 engages in some hedging activities to reduce foreign exchange transaction risk, changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of Europe and Asia could make K2 products less competitive in foreign markets, and could reduce the sales and earnings represented by foreign currencies. Additionally, such fluctuation could result in an increase in cost of products sold in foreign markets reducing margins and earnings. Acts of war or terrorism may have an adverse effect on K2’s business. Acts of war or terrorism may have an adverse effect on the economy generally, and more specifically on K2’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Among various other risks, such occurrences have the potential to significantly decrease consumer spending on leisure products and activities, adversely impact K2’s ability to consummate future debt or equity financings and negatively affect K2’s ability to manufacture, source and deliver low-cost goods in a timely manner. 17 Table of Contents K2 is subject to and may incur liabilities under various environmental laws. K2 is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern activities that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal of and exposure to hazardous substances. In that regard, K2 has been and could be subject to claims and inquiries related to alleged substances in K2’s products that may be subject to notice requirements or exposure limitations, particularly in California, which may result in fines and penalties. K2 is also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability for cost and damages resulting from past disposals or other releases of hazardous substances. For example, K2 may incur liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and similar laws, some of which impose strict, and in some cases, joint and several, liability for the cleanup of contamination resulting from past disposals of waste, including disposal at off-site locations. K2 is currently aware of matters involving discharge of hazardous materials at old waste sites in South Carolina and Michigan. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, K2 had recorded an estimated liability of approximately $800,000 for environmental matters. In addition, K2 has acquired and intends to continue to acquire pre-existing businesses, such as Rawlings, Völkl, Marker and Marmot, that have historical and ongoing operations, and K2 has limited information about the environmental condition of the properties of such companies. It is possible that soil and groundwater contamination may exist on these or other of K2’s properties resulting from current or former operations. Although K2 is not aware of any issues arising under current environmental laws that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on K2’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects, K2 cannot assure you that such matters will not have such an impact. Unfavorable weather can adversely affect K2’s sales. Sales of K2’s sporting goods and recreational products are strongly influenced by the weather. For example, poor snow conditions in the winter or summer conditions unfavorable to outdoor sports can adversely affect sales of important K2 products. K2 is subject to and may incur liabilities under various tax laws. K2 is subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business there are calculations and transactions, including transfer pricing, where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, changes in tax laws and regulations as well as adverse judicial rulings could adversely affect the income tax provision. K2 believes that it has adequately provided for income tax issues not yet resolved with federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. However, if an ultimate tax assessment exceeds our estimate of tax liabilities, an additional charge to expense would result. K2 has established a valuation allowance against certain of its deferred tax assets in each jurisdiction where it can not conclude that it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized. If actual results are less favorable than those projected by management, additional income tax expense could be required. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 