Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of the following risks were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additionally, if other risks not presently known to us, or that we do not currently believe to be significant, occur or become significant, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intention, or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward- looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements,” included at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The recent economic downturn and the financial and credit crisis may adversely impact our customers’ future spending and their ability to pay amounts owed to us. Growth in economic activity slowed substantially during fiscal 2009. The duration of the economic weakness and the impact that it will have on our customers remains uncertain. Slowing economic growth may adversely impact the demand for our services and potentially result in the delay or cancellation of projects by our customers. This makes it difficult to estimate our customers’ requirements for our services and adds uncertainty to the determination of our backlog. Our customers generally finance their projects through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been significant volatility in the credit markets and a reduction in the general availability of credit. Additionally, many of our customers’ equity values have substantially declined. A reduction in cash flow and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to downturns affecting the industries we serve. Demand for our services by telecommunications customers has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the telecommunications industry. In fiscal 2009, our telecommunications customers accounted for over 77.7% of our revenues from continuing operations. Beginning with the second quarter of fiscal 2009, our results were impacted by customer reductions in near term spending plans and we believe a slow growth environment will continue into fiscal 2010. During times of economic slowdown, our customers often reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. Our underground facility locating services are required prior to underground excavation, which is dependent in part on construction activity, and accordingly, are also influenced by the level of overall economic activity. As a result of the foregoing, demand for our services may decline during periods of economic downturns and could adversely affect our operations, cash flows and liquidity. 7 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenues from master service agreements which may be cancelled by our customers upon notice or which we may be unable to renew on negotiated terms. During fiscal 2009, we derived approximately 69.5% of our revenues from master service agreements. By their terms, the majority of these contracts may be cancelled by our customers upon notice, even if we are not in default, and our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us under these agreements. Consequently, projected expenditures by customers are not assured until a definitive work order is placed and completed. During the last several years we have been able to renew or extend some of our master service agreements on negotiated terms rather than through a competitive bidding process. Market conditions could change, however, and our customers could require the renewal of these contracts through competitive bidding. As a result of competitive bidding, we could be underbid by our competitors or required to lower the price charged under the contract being rebid. The loss of work obtained through master service agreements or the reduced profitability of such work could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The industries we serve have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological, structural and competitive changes that could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues. The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing consumer needs. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from customers in the telecommunications industry. New technologies, or upgrades to existing technologies by customers, could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. New, developing, or existing services, such as wireless applications, could displace the wireline systems we install and that are used by our customers to deliver services to consumers. In addition, improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunication companies to improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top five customers in fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007 accounting for approximately 64%, 64%, and 63%, respectively, of our total revenues from continuing operations. Our revenue may significantly decline if we were to lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenues under our contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work which those customers order or perform with their in-house service organizations. Additionally, consolidations, mergers and acquisitions in the telecommunications industry have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The consolidation, merger or acquisition of an existing customer may result in a change in procurement strategies by the surviving entity. Reduced demand for our services or a change in procurement strategy of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The specialty contracting services industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete with other independent contractors, including numerous small, owner-operated private companies, as well as several companies that may have financial, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. Relatively few barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we operate and, as a result, any organization with adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior in both price and quality to our services, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers whose personnel perform some of the same services that we provide. Although our customers currently outsource a significant portion of these services to us and our industry competitors, we can offer no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource specialty contracting services in the future. Our financial results are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, a number of estimates and assumptions are made by management that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is either dependent on future events or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available. In some cases, these estimates are particularly uncertain and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the recognition of revenue for costs 8 Table of Contents and estimated earnings in excess of billings, the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, accrued insurance claims, asset lives used in computing depreciation and amortization, allowance for doubtful accounts, compensation expense for performance-based stock awards, and the outcome of contingencies, including legal matters. At the time they are made, we believe that such estimates are fair when considered in conjunction with the consolidated financial position and results of operations taken as a whole. However, actual results could differ from those estimates and such differences may be material to the financial statements and could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our profitability is based on our ability to deliver our services within the estimated costs used to establish the pricing of our contracts. We recognize revenues under the percentage of completion method of accounting using the units of delivery or cost-to-cost measures. A significant majority of our contracts are based on units of delivery and revenue is recognized as each unit is completed. As the price for each of the units is fixed by the contract, our profitability could decline if our actual costs to complete each unit exceeds our original estimates. Revenues from contracts using the cost-to-cost measures of completion are recognized based on the ratio of contract costs incurred to date to total estimated contract costs. Application of the percentage of completion method of accounting requires that our management estimate the costs to be incurred by us in performing the contract. Our process for estimating costs is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our project managers and financial professionals. However, any changes in original estimates, or the assumptions underpinning such estimates, may result in revisions to costs and income and their effects would be recognized in the period in which such revisions are determined. These changes could result in the reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, which could adversely affect our profitability and the price of our common stock. We possess a significant amount of accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings assets. We extend credit to our customers as a result of performing work under contract prior to billing our customers for that work. These customers include telephone companies, cable television multiple system operators, and gas and electric utilities and others. At July 25, 2009, we had net accounts receivable of $117.0 million and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings of $67.1 million. We periodically assess the credit risk of our customers and continuously monitor the timeliness of payments. Slowdowns in the industries we serve may impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. During fiscal 2009, one of our significant customers proposed a financial restructuring effected through a Chapter 11 filing. As part of its financial restructuring, this customer has received authorization from the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York to continue to pay its trade creditors in full, including us. Further bankruptcies or financial difficulties within the telecommunications sector could hinder the ability of our customers to pay us on a timely basis or at all, reducing our cash flows and adversely impacting our liquidity and profitability. Additionally, we could incur losses in excess of current bad debt allowances. We retain the risk of loss for certain insurance related liabilities, which leaves us exposed to higher than expected claims. We retain the risk of loss, up to certain limits, for claims related to automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation, employee group health, and locate damages. We estimate and develop our accrual for these claims based on facts, circumstances and historical evidence. However, the estimate for accrued insurance claims remains subject to uncertainty as it depends in part on factors that cannot be known with precision. These factors include the frequency of future claims, the payment pattern of claims which have been incurred, changes in the medical condition of claimants, and other factors such as inflation, tort reform or other legislative changes, unfavorable jury decisions and court interpretations. Should a greater number of claims occur compared to what we have estimated, or should the dollar amount of actual claims exceed what we have anticipated, our recorded reserves may not be sufficient, and we could incur substantial additional unanticipated charges. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Accrued Insurance Claims” and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Our backlog is subject to reduction and/or cancellation. Our backlog consists of the uncompleted portion of services to be performed under job-specific contracts and the estimated value of future services that we expect to provide under master service agreements and other long-term requirements contracts. Many of our contracts are multi-year agreements, and we include in our backlog the amount of services projected to be performed over the terms of the contracts based on our historical experience with customers and, more generally our experience in procurements of this type. In many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to procure specific 9 Table of Contents volumes of services under a contract. Our estimates of a customer’s requirements during a particular future period may not prove to be accurate, particularly in light of the current economic conditions and the uncertainty that imposes on changes in our customer’s requirements for our services. If our estimated backlog is significantly inaccurate or does not result in future profits, this could adversely affect our future growth and the price of our common stock. We may incur impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets. We account for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Our reporting units and related indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually during the fourth fiscal quarter of each year in order to determine whether their carrying value exceeds their fair value. In addition, they are tested on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce their fair value below carrying value. If we determine the fair value of the goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than their carrying value as a result of the tests, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the difference. Any such write-down could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of our interim impairment analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we recognized a non-cash charge of $94.4 million. The fiscal 2009 interim impairment charge included impairments at the following reporting units: Broadband Installation Services for $14.8 million, C-2 Utility Contractors for $9.2 million, Ervin Cable Construction for $15.7 million, Nichols Construction for $2.0 million, Stevens Communications for $2.4 million, and UtiliQuest for $50.5 million. As the result of our annual impairment test of goodwill in fiscal 2008, we recognized non-cash charges of approximately $5.9 million related to our Stevens Communications reporting unit and approximately $3.8 million related to our Nichols Construction reporting unit. Additionally, in fiscal 2005 and 2006, we recognized non-cash charges of approximately $29.0 million related to our White Mountain Cable Construction reporting unit and $14.8 million related to our Can-Am Communications, Inc. reporting unit, respectively. The impairment charges reduced the carrying value of goodwill related to these reporting units. Our goodwill resides in multiple reporting units. The profitability of individual reporting units may suffer periodically from downturns in customer demand and other factors resulting from the cyclical nature of our business, the high level of competition existing within our industry, the concentration of our revenues within a limited number of customers, and the level of overall economic activity. Individual reporting units may be relatively more impacted by these factors than the Company as a whole. Specifically, during times of economic slowdown, our customers may reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. As a result, demand for the services of one or more of the reporting units could decline which could adversely affect our operations, cash flow, and liquidity and could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. We may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including class action lawsuits, that are brought or threatened against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act (the “FLSA”) and state wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. The ultimate resolution of these matters through settlement, mediation or court judgment could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, regardless of the outcome, these proceedings could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. For a description of current legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings” and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. The loss of certain key managers could adversely affect our business. We depend on the services of our executive officers and the senior management of our subsidiaries. Our senior management team has many years of experience in our industry, and the loss of any one of them could negatively affect our ability to execute our business strategy. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot guarantee that any key management personnel will remain employed by us for any length of time. The loss of key management could adversely affect the management of our operations. We do not carry significant “key-person” life insurance on any of our employees. 10 Table of Contents Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the skilled personnel necessary to operate our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and support our growth strategy. Our ability to do so depends on a number of factors such as general rates of employment, competitive demands for employees having the skills we need and the level of compensation required to hire and retain qualified employees. In addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of shortages in the supply of these skilled personnel. As a result, our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability may be affected if we are unable to hire qualified employees and manage labor costs to retain employees. Higher fuel prices may increase our cost of doing business, and we may not be able to pass along added costs to customers. Fuel prices fluctuate based on events outside of our control. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing for higher fuel costs during a contract term and we may be unable to secure price increases when renewing or bidding contracts to compensate us for rising costs. As a result, higher fuel costs may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Although we may hedge our anticipated fuel purchases with the use of financial instruments, underlying commodity costs have been volatile in recent periods. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have financial instruments in place to hedge against the impact of increased fuel costs. To the extent the Company enters into hedge transactions, declines in fuel prices below the levels established in the financial instruments may require us to make payments which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations fluctuate seasonally. Our revenues are affected by seasonality since a significant portion of the work we perform is outdoors. Consequently, our operations are impacted by extended periods of inclement weather. Generally, inclement weather is more likely to occur during the winter season, which falls during our second and third fiscal quarters. Also, a disproportionate percentage of total paid holidays fall within our second quarter, which decreases the number of available workdays. Additionally, our customer premise equipment installation activities for cable providers historically decrease around calendar year end holidays as their customers generally require less activity during this period. As a result of these factors we may experience reduced revenues in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year. We may be unable to generate internal growth. Our internal growth may be affected by, among other factors, our ability to offer valuable services to existing customers, attract new customers, and hire and retain qualified employees or subcontractors. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, such as the capital budgets of our customers and the availability of qualified employees. Should one or more of these factors occur, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. Failure to integrate future acquisitions successfully could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire companies that expand, complement, or diversify our business. We regularly review various opportunities and periodically engage in discussions regarding possible acquisitions. Future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from our existing business, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and the potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. Our ability to sustain our growth and maintain our competitive position may be affected by our ability to successfully integrate any businesses acquired. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income and other tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in many different jurisdictions of the United States and Canada and certain of our tax liabilities are subject to the apportionment of income to different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in locations with differing tax rates, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or tax laws. An increase to our effective tax rate could reduce our profitability. In addition, the amount of income and other taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Our senior subordinated notes and revolving credit facility impose restrictions on us which may prevent us from engaging in beneficial transactions. At July 25, 2009, we had $135.35 million in senior subordinated notes 11 Table of Contents outstanding due October 2015. The notes were issued under an indenture dated as of October 11, 2005. The indenture governing the notes contains covenants that restrict our ability to: make certain payments, including the payment of dividends; redeem or repurchase capital stock; incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; make investments or create liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; merge or consolidate with another entity; sell certain assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. On September 12, 2008, we entered into a new three-year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks. The credit agreement, as amended in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, has an expiration date of September 12, 2011 and a maximum borrowing amount of $210.0 million with the ability to extend the term for up to two years and borrow up to an additional $85.0 million. The credit agreement requires us to: (i) maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not greater than 3.00 to 1.00 as measured at the end of each fiscal quarter; (ii) maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.75 to 1.00, as measured at the end of each fiscal quarter; and (iii) maintain consolidated tangible net worth as calculated at the end of each fiscal quarter, of not less than $50 million plus 50% of consolidated net income (if positive) from September 12, 2008 to the date of computation plus 75% of the equity issuances made from September 12, 2008 to the date of computation. A default under our credit agreement or the indenture could result in the acceleration of our obligations under either or both of those agreements as a result of cross acceleration and cross default provisions. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. Many of our telecommunications customers are highly regulated and the addition of new regulations or changes to existing regulations may adversely impact their demand for and the profitability of our specialty contracting service. Many of our telecommunications customers are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”). The FCC may alter the application of its regulations to telecommunication companies from the way such regulations are currently applied and may further impose additional regulations. If existing or new regulations have an adverse affect on our telecommunications customers and adversely impact the profitability of the services they provide, our customers may reduce expenditures for our specialty contracting services. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing workplace safety. Our workers frequently operate heavy machinery and work with high voltage lines. As such, they are subject to potential injury to themselves or others in the vicinity of work being performed. If any of our workers or any other persons are injured or killed in the course of our operations, we could be found to have violated relevant safety regulations, which could result in a fine or, in extreme cases, criminal sanction. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, customers could decide to cancel our contracts and or not award us future business. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations consist, in part, of work performed underground. As a result, we are potentially subject to material liabilities related to encountering underground objects which may cause the release of hazardous materials or substances. The environmental laws and regulations that relate to our business include those regarding the removal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste. These laws and regulations can impose significant fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Costs associated with the discharge of hazardous materials or substances may include clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities. These costs could be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, new laws and regulations, changed enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. Using cash for acquisitions may limit our financial flexibility and make us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our existing debt agreements contain significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt, and if we seek more debt we may be required to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. If we seek additional debt or equity 12 Table of Contents financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our capital expenditures may fluctuate as a result of changes in business requirements. Our anticipated capital expenditure requirements may vary from time to time as a result of changes in our business requirements. An increase in capital expenditures will use cash flow and may increase our borrowing costs if cash for capital expenditures is not available from operations. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During fiscal 2008 and 2009, our common stock fluctuated from a high of $32.36 per share to a low of $3.67 per share. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock due to numerous factors, including, but not limited to: • fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments; • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • the impact of continuing economic weakness on the credit and stock markets and on our customers’ demand for our services. In addition, factors unrelated to our operating performance, such as market disruptions, industry outlook, general economic conditions, and political events, could decrease the market price of our common stock and, as a result, investors could lose some or all of their investments. Anti-takeover provisions of Florida law, provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws and our shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult to effect an acquisition of our company or a change in our control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights as our board of directors may determine. The issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock, including by the grant of voting control to others. Our by-laws also restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan, which may make it more difficult to effect a change in control. Lastly, we are subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act. These anti-takeover provisions could discourage or prevent a change in control, even if such change would be beneficial to stockholders. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 