Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of the following risks were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additionally, if other risks not presently known to us, or that we do not currently believe to be significant, occur or become significant, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intention, or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements,” included at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to downturns affecting the industries we serve. Demand for our services by telecommunications customers has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the telecommunications industry. In fiscal 2008, our telecommunications customers accounted for over 75% of our revenues from continuing operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our results were impacted by a decline in customer spending which occurred in January. This decline was the result of a noticeable softening in the intensity with which a broad range of customers executed near-term spending plans. It was evident in the delayed approval of calendar 2008 budgets by certain customers, the pace with which approved budgets were executed during January, overall volumes of available work, and in certain instances, customer-specific delays. Due to the pace of January’s revenue decline in relation to our scheduled workforce level, gross margin was negatively affected. These conditions generally improved during the second half of fiscal 2008. However, we believe a slow growth environment will continue into fiscal 2009. Additionally, bankruptcies or financial difficulties within the telecommunications sector could reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our liquidity and profitability. During times of economic slowdown, our customers often reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. Such developments occur even among customers that are not experiencing financial difficulties. Our underground facility locating services are required prior to underground excavation, which is dependent in part on construction activity, and accordingly, is influenced by the level of overall economic activity. As a result of the foregoing, demand for our services may decline during periods of economic downturns and adversely affect our operations, cash flows and liquidity. Additionally, future slowdowns in the industries we serve may impair the financial condition of one or more of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from master service agreements which may be cancelled by our customers upon notice. During fiscal 2008, we derived approximately 70.3% of our revenues from master service agreements. By their terms, the majority of these contracts may be cancelled by our customers upon notice, even if we are not in default. In addition, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us under these agreements. Consequently, projected expenditures by customers are not assured until such time as a definitive work order is placed and completed. The loss of work obtained through master service agreements could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may be unable to renew master service agreements on negotiated terms in the future. During the last several years we have been able to renew or extend some of our master service agreements on negotiated terms rather than through a competitive bidding process. Market conditions could change, resulting in our customers requiring the renewal of these contracts through competitive bidding. As a result of competitive bidding, we could be underbid by our competitors or required to lower the price charged under the contract being rebid. The loss of work obtained through master service agreements or the reduced profitability of such work could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The industries we serve have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological, structural and competitive changes that could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues. The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing 7 Table of Contents consumer needs. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from customers in the telecommunications industry. New technologies, or upgrades to existing technologies by customers, could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. New, developing, or existing services, such as wireless applications, could displace the wireline systems we install and that are used by our customers to deliver services to consumers. In addition, improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunication companies to improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top five customers in fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006 accounting for approximately 64%, 63%, and 64% of our total revenues from continuing operations, respectively. Our revenue may significantly decline if we were to lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenues under our contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work which those customers order, or perform with their in-house service organizations. Additionally, consolidations, mergers and acquisitions in the telecommunications industry have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The consolidation, merger or acquisition of an existing customer may result in a change in procurement strategies by the surviving entity. Reduced demand for our services or a change in procurement strategy of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The specialty contracting services industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete with other independent contractors, including numerous small, owner-operated private companies, as well as several companies that may have financial, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. Relatively few barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we operate and, as a result, any organization with adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior in both price and quality to our services, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers whose personnel perform some of the same types of services we provide. Although our customers currently outsource a significant portion of these services to us and our industry competitors, we can offer no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource specialty contracting services in the future. Our financial results are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, a number of estimates and assumptions are made by management that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is either dependent on future events or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available. In some cases, these estimates are particularly uncertain and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the revenue recognition for costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, allowance for doubtful accounts, accrued insurance claims, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, asset lives used in computing depreciation and amortization, including amortization of intangibles, and accounting for performance-based stock awards, income taxes and contingencies, including legal matters. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our profitability is based on our ability to deliver our services within the estimated costs used to establish the pricing of our contracts. We recognize revenues under the percentage of completion method of accounting using the units of delivery or cost-to cost measures. A significant majority of our contracts are based on units of delivery and revenue is recognized as each unit is completed. As the price for each of the units is fixed by the contract, our profitability could decline if our actual costs to complete each unit exceeds our original estimates. Revenues from contracts using the cost-to-cost measures of completion are recognized based on the ratio of contract costs incurred to date to total estimated contract costs. Application of the percentage of completion method of accounting requires that our management estimate the costs to be incurred by us in performing the contract. Our process for estimating costs is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our project managers and financial professionals. However, any changes in original estimates, or the assumptions underpinning such estimates, may result in 8 Table of Contents revisions to costs and income and their effects would be recognized in the period in which such revisions are determined. These changes could result in the reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, which could adversely affect our profitability and the price of our common stock. We possess a significant amount of accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings assets. We extend credit to our customers as a result of performing work under contract prior to billing our customers for that work. These customers include telephone companies, cable television multiple system operators, and gas and electric utilities and others. At July 26, 2008, we had net accounts receivable of $146.4 million and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings of $94.3 million. We periodically assess the credit risk of our customers and continuously monitor the timeliness of payments. If any of our significant customers were to experience financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, we could experience difficulty in collecting what we are owed for work already performed or in process, leading to reduced cash flows and a decline in our liquidity. Additionally, we could incur losses in excess of current bad debt allowances. We retain the risk of loss for certain insurance related liabilities, which leaves us exposed to higher than expected claims. We retain the risk of loss, up to certain limits, for claims related to automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation, employee group health, and locate damages. We estimate and develop our accrual for these claims based on facts, circumstances and historical evidence. However, the estimate for accrued insurance claims remains subject to uncertainty as it depends in part on factors that cannot be known with precision. These factors include the frequency of future claims, the payment pattern of claims which have been incurred, changes in the medical condition of claimants, and other factors such as inflation, tort reform or other legislative changes, unfavorable jury decisions and court interpretations. Should a greater number of claims occur compared to what we have estimated, or should the dollar amount of actual claims exceed what we have anticipated, our recorded reserves may not be sufficient, and we could incur substantial additional unanticipated charges. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Accrued Insurance Claims” and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Our backlog is subject to reduction and/or cancellation. Our backlog consists of the uncompleted portion of services to be performed under job-specific contracts and the estimated value of future services that we expect to provide under long-term requirements contracts, including master service agreements. Many of our contracts are multi-year agreements, and we include in our backlog the amount of services projected to be performed over the terms of the contracts based on our historical experience with customers and, more generally, our experience in procurements of this type. In many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to procure specific volumes of services under a contract and may terminate a contract for convenience. Our estimates of a customer’s requirements during a particular future period may not be accurate at any point in time. If our estimated backlog is significantly inaccurate or does not result in future profits, this could adversely affect our future growth and the price of our common stock. We may incur impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets. We account for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Our reporting units and related indefinite-lived intangible asset are tested annually during the fourth fiscal quarter of each year in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in order to determine whether their carrying value exceeds their fair market value. Should this be the case, the value of the reporting unit’s goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible may be impaired and written down. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are also tested for impairment on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below the carrying value. If we determine the fair value of the goodwill or other identifiable intangible asset is less than their carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the difference. Any such write-down could adversely affect our results of operations. As the result of our annual impairment test of goodwill in fiscal 2008, we recognized non-cash charges of approximately $5.9 million related to our Stevens Communications reporting unit and approximately $3.8 million related to our Nichols Construction reporting unit. Additionally, in fiscal 2005 and 2006, we recognized non-cash charges of approximately $29 million related to our White Mountain Cable Construction reporting unit and $14.8 million related to our Can-Am Communications, Inc. reporting unit, respectively. The impairment charges reduced the carrying value of goodwill related to these reporting units. 9 Table of Contents Our goodwill resides in multiple reporting units. The profitability of individual reporting units may suffer periodically from downturns in customer demand and other factors which reflect the cyclical nature of our business, the high level of competition existing within our industry, the concentration of our revenues within a limited number of customers and the level of overall economic activity. Individual reporting units may be relatively more impacted by these factors than the Company as a whole. Specifically, during times of economic slowdown, our customers may reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. As a result, demand for the services of one or more of the reporting units could decline during periods of economic downturns which could adversely affect our operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including class action lawsuits, that are brought or threatened against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act (the “FLSA”) and state wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. The ultimate resolution of these matters through settlement, mediation or court judgment could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, regardless of the outcome, these proceedings could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. For a description of current legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings” and Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. The loss of certain key managers could adversely affect our business. We depend on the services of our executive officers and the senior management of our subsidiaries. Our senior management team has many years of experience in our industry, and the loss of any one of them could negatively affect our ability to execute our business strategy. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot guarantee that any key management personnel will remain employed by us for any length of time. The loss of key management could adversely affect the management of our operations. We do not carry significant “key-person” life insurance on any of our employees. Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the skilled personnel necessary to operate our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and support our growth strategy. Our ability to do so depends on a number of factors such as general rates of employment, competitive demands for employees having the skills we need and the level of compensation required to hire and retain qualified employees. In addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of shortages in the supply of these skilled personnel. As a result, our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability may be affected if we are unable to hire qualified employees and manage labor costs to retain employees. Higher fuel prices may increase our cost of doing business, and we may not be able to pass along added costs to customers. Fuel prices fluctuate based on events outside of our control. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing for higher fuel costs during the contract term. In addition, we may be unable to secure price increases when renewing or bidding contracts to compensate us for rising costs. As a result, higher fuel costs may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations fluctuate seasonally. Our revenues are affected by seasonality since a significant portion of the work we perform is outdoors. Consequently, our operations are impacted by extended periods of inclement weather. Generally, inclement weather is more likely to occur during the winter season, which falls during our second and third fiscal quarters. Also, a disproportionate percentage of total paid holidays fall within our second quarter, which decreases the number of available workdays. Additionally, our customer premise equipment installation activities for cable providers historically decrease around calendar year end holidays as their customers generally require less activity during this period. As a result of these factors we may experience reduced revenues in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year. We may be unable to generate internal growth. Our internal growth may be affected by, among other factors, our ability to offer valuable services to existing customers, attract new customers, and hire and retain qualified employees or subcontractors. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond 10 Table of Contents our control, such as the capital budgets of our customers and the availability of qualified employees. We may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. Failure to integrate future acquisitions successfully could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire companies that expand, complement, or diversify our business. We regularly review various opportunities and periodically engage in discussions regarding possible acquisitions. Future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from our existing business, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and the potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. Our ability to sustain our growth and maintain our competitive position may be affected by our ability to successfully integrate any businesses acquired. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income and other tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in many different jurisdictions of the United States and Canada and certain of our tax liabilities are subject to the apportionment of income to different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in locations with differing tax rates, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or tax laws. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. An increase to our effective tax rate could reduce our profitability. In addition, the amount of income and other taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Our senior subordinated notes and revolving credit facility impose restrictions on us which may prevent us from engaging in transactions of benefit. At July 26, 2008, we had $150 million in senior subordinated notes outstanding due October 2015. The notes were issued under an indenture dated as of October 11, 2005. The indenture governing the notes contains covenants that restrict our ability to: make certain payments, including the payment of dividends; redeem or repurchase capital stock; incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; make investments; create liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; merge or consolidate with another entity; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to: (i) maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not greater than 3.00 to 1.0 as measured at the end of each fiscal quarter; (ii) maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.75 to 1.00, as measured at the end of each fiscal quarter; and (iii) maintain consolidated tangible net worth as calculated at the end of each fiscal quarter, of not less than $50 million plus 50% of consolidated net income (if positive) from September 8, 2005 to the date of computation plus 75% of the equity issuances made from September 8, 2005 to the date of computation (other than equity issuances made after November 16, 2007 pursuant to employee stock option programs in an amount not to exceed $20 million during the term of the credit agreement). A default under our credit agreement or the indenture could result in the acceleration of our obligations under either or both of those agreements as a result of cross acceleration and cross default provisions. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. Many of our telecommunications customers are highly regulated and the addition of new regulations or changes to existing regulations may adversely impact their demand for our specialty contracting services and the profitability of those services. Many of our telecommunications customers are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”). The FCC may alter the application of its regulations to telecommunication companies from the way such regulations are currently applied and may further impose additional regulations. If existing or new regulations have an adverse affect on our telecommunications customers and adversely impact the profitability of the services they provide, our customers may reduce expenditures for the specialty contracting services we provide. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing workplace safety. Our workers frequently operate heavy machinery and work with high voltage lines. As such, they are subject to potential injury to themselves or others in the vicinity of work being performed. If any of our workers or any other persons are injured or killed in the course of our operations, we could be found to have violated relevant safety regulations, which could result in a fine or, in extreme cases, criminal sanction. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, customers could decide to cancel our contracts and or not award us future business. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations consist, in part, of work performed underground. As a result, we are potentially subject to material liabilities related to encountering underground objects which may cause the release of hazardous materials or substances. The environmental laws and regulations that relate to our business include those regarding the removal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste. These laws and regulations can impose significant fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Costs associated with the discharge of hazardous materials or substances may include clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities. These costs could be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, new laws and regulations, changed enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. Using cash for acquisitions may limit our financial flexibility and make us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our existing debt agreements contain significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt, and if we seek more debt we may be required to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. If we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our capital expenditures may fluctuate as a result of changes in business requirements. Our anticipated capital expenditure requirements may vary from time to time as a result of changes in our business requirements. An increase in capital expenditures will use cash flow and may increase our borrowing costs if cash for capital expenditures is not available from operations. Anti-takeover provisions of Florida law, provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and our shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult to effect an acquisition of our company or a change in our control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights as our board of directors may determine. The issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock, including by the grant of voting control to others. Our bylaws also restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan, which may make it more difficult to effect a change in control. Lastly, we are subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act. These anti-takeover provisions could discourage or prevent a change in control, even if such change would be beneficial to stockholders. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 