ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition or operating results. Current worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as decrease our stock price. We believe that the deterioration in general worldwide economic conditions may result in our customers decreasing their capital expenditures. Our customers include pharmaceutical, food, medical and chemical companies, laboratories, government agencies and public and private research institutions. The capital spending of these entities can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Any decrease in capital spending by any of these customer groups could have a material adverse effect on our sales, business and results of operations. Consistent with the above, our customers' and independent representatives' ability to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the worldwide economic crisis may adversely impact our suppliers' ability to provide us with materials and components, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Like many other stocks, our stock price has decreased recently and if investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn, our stock price could further decrease. 8 Some of the markets in which we operate have experienced minimal growth in recent years, and our ability to increase our sales will depend in part on our ability to develop new products, develop new applications for our existing products or acquire complementary businesses and product lines. We have identified a number of strategies that we believe will allow us to grow our business and increase our sales in markets experiencing minimal growth, including developing new products and technologies, developing new applications for our technologies, acquiring complementary businesses and product lines, and strengthening our sales force. However, we can make no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategies, or that these strategies will result in the growth of our business or an increase in our sales. If we acquire businesses in the future, we could experience a decrease in our profit margins, a decrease in our net income, and other adverse consequences. One of our growth strategies is to supplement our internal growth with the acquisition of businesses and technologies that complement or augment our existing products. Some of the businesses that we previously acquired have produced net operating losses or low levels of profitability. Other businesses that we may acquire in the future may be marginally profitable or unprofitable, and may require us to improve the operations and market penetration of such companies in order to achieve the level of profitability that we desire. Further, acquisitions and the integration of those acquisitions involve a number of risks, which could be heightened if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time, including: •diversion of our management's attention from our core businesses; •difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings and revenue synergies; •potential loss of key employees or clients of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and clients; •reallocation of amounts of capital from operating initiatives and/or the incurrence of indebtedness to pay the acquisition purchase prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy; •inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems; and •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition, including additional expenditures related to Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 compliance. In addition, acquisitions that we believe will be beneficial to our business and financial results are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the competition among prospective buyers. We may not be able to complete acquisitions in the future, and have not completed an acquisition since January 2004. Any acquisitions that we do complete in the future may have an adverse effect on our financial performance and liquidity. It may be necessary for us to raise additional funds either through public or private debt or equity financing in order to finance any future acquisitions. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us and may dilute the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders. We face risks of technological changes that may render our products obsolete. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapid and significant technological change and evolving industry standards. As a result of such changes and evolving standards, our 9 products may become noncompetitive or obsolete and we may have to develop new products in order to maintain or increase our sales. New product introductions that are responsive to these factors require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels, and we may not be able to timely develop new products. In addition, industry acceptance of new technologies that we may develop may be slow due to, among other things, existing regulations or standards written specifically for older technologies and general unfamiliarity of users with new technologies. As a result, any new products that we may develop may not generate any meaningful sales or profits for us for a number of years, if at all. A significant portion of our sales are generated from foreign countries and selling in foreign countries entails a number of risks which could result in a decrease in our sales or an increase in our operating expenses. Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 56% of our sales in 2008 and approximately 52% and 55% of our sales in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the future. Sales to customers in foreign countries are subject to a number of risks, including the following: •agreements may be difficult to enforce; •receivables may be difficult to collect; •certain regions are experiencing political unrest and conflict and economic instability; •foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; •the countries into which we sell may impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; •currency fluctuations could reduce reported profitability in future periods; •fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand; •legal and regulatory requirements may be difficult to monitor and comply with, especially if inconsistent with U.S. laws and regulations; •customizing products for foreign countries and managing and staffing international operations may lead to increased costs; and •protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult to enforce. If any of these risks were to materialize, our sales into foreign countries could decline, or our operating costs could increase, which would adversely affect our financial results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and net earnings. Because the functional currency of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales to third party customers and purchases from suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. Our reported net sales and net earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Because our products are manufactured or sourced primarily from the United States, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a negative impact on results from operations outside the United States while a weaker dollar generally has a positive effect. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro. We currently do not use hedging activities to minimize the volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. If we do use such activities in the future, they also involve some risk. 10 Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do, which may provide our competitors with an advantage in the development and marketing of new products. We currently encounter, and expect to continue to encounter, competition in the sale of our products. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products include product quality and performance, price, reliability and customer service. Our competitors include large multinational corporations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Our current products, products under development and our ability to discover new technologies may be insufficient to enable us to compete effectively with our competitors. Our reliance upon patents, domestic trademark laws, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of our products. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Our competitors may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There may also be pending or issued patents held by parties not affiliated with us that relate to our products or technologies and we may need to acquire licenses to any such patents to continue selling some or all of our products. If we had to obtain any such license in order to be able to continue to sell some or all of our products, we may not be able to do so on terms that were favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment. The failure of our management information systems to perform could disrupt our business and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other 11 computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future and any broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past, ranging from a high sales price of $11.83 and a low sales price of $6.70 during 2008, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: •announcements of new products by us or our competitors; •quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; •customer contract awards; •a change to the rates at which we have historically paid dividends; •developments in regulation; and •general economic and political conditions in the various markets where our products are sold. In addition, the stock prices of instrumentation companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. This market volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Complying with securities laws and regulations is costly for us. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations promulgated by the SEC and Nasdaq, are creating particular challenges for smaller publicly-held companies like us. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting have required, and will continue to require, the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. If we experience any increase in the cost of raw materials or supplies, we may experience a decrease in profit margins. In the past, the overall cost of the materials that we purchase has not risen much more than the rate of inflation. We believe that the price of our products and the prices of our competitors' products is a significant factor affecting our customers' buying decisions and consequently, we may not be able to pass along any cost increases in raw materials and supplies in the form of price increases or sustain profit margins that we have achieved in prior years. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 