ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition or operating results and should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of an investment in our common stock. Additionally, the following risk factors could cause our actual results to materially differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses, if not corrected, could affect the reliability of our financial statements and have other adverse consequences. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting. This report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management. In addition, the report must contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control over financial reporting. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, as disclosed in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures”. Failure to have effective internal controls could lead to a misstatement of our financial statements or prevent us from filing our financial statements in a timely manner. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial statements, our business decision processes may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the price of our common shares could decrease and our ability to obtain additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be adversely affected. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities. We intend to take further action to remediate the material weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures”. However, we can give no assurances that the measures we may take will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. If we fail to effectively integrate Dansensor with the rest of our organization, our operating results could be negatively impacted. If we fail to successfully integrate Dansensor, then the intangibles or long-lived assets that resulted from the acquisition may be deemed “impaired.” In that case, we must assess whether the amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet which relate to this acquisition exceed their fair value. Any write-down to adjust these values will reduce our reported net income and could possibly have a negative effect on our stock price. If economic conditions decline, companies may reduce their capital spending which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for the Company’s products and services. Our customers include pharmaceutical, food, medical and chemical companies, laboratories, government agencies and public and private research institutions. The capital spending of these entities can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Decreases in capital spending by any of these customer groups could have a material adverse effect on our sales, business and results of operations. Further, our customers’ and independent representatives’ ability to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. If investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn, our stock price could decrease. 9 If we violate the terms of our credit agreement and financial covenants, it could cause our lender to demand immediate repayment of our credit facilities. We have a credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, our primary lender, with which we entered into a secured loan and a line of credit through March 28, 2016. Our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank includes various financial and restrictive covenants. Our current internal projections indicate that we will be in compliance with our financial and restrictive covenants for the next 12 months. However, unforeseen circumstances may develop which could result in us violating our loan covenants. If we violate the terms of our credit agreement, including our financial and restrictive covenants, Wells Fargo Bank could deem us to be in default and require us to immediately repay the entire outstanding balance of our credit facilities. If we do not have the funds available to repay the credit facilities or we cannot find another source of financing, we may fail to meet the terms of our agreement which could decrease the value of our common stock or have other material adverse consequences for us. Some of the markets in which we operate have experienced minimal growth in recent years, and our ability to increase our sales will depend in part on our ability to develop new products, develop new applications for our existing products or acquire complementary businesses and product lines. We have identified a number of strategies that we believe will allow us to grow our business and increase our sales in markets experiencing minimal growth. This includes developing new products and technologies, entering new markets such as food safety, capitalizing on our relationship with Luxcel Biosciences Limited, developing new applications for our technologies, acquiring complementary businesses and product lines, and strengthening our sales force. However, we can make no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategies, or that these strategies will result in the growth of our business or an increase in our sales. Acquisitions that we may find attractive may be subject to the consent of Wells Fargo Bank under the credit agreement we intend to execute with them. If we fail to attract and retain qualified managerial and technical personnel, we may fail to remain competitive. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued service and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. We rely on knowledgeable, experienced and skilled technical personnel, particularly engineers, scientists and service personnel, to design, assemble, sell and service our products. The loss of the services of our management team, some of whom have significant experience in our industry, and other key personnel could impair our ability to effectively manage our company and to carry out our business plan. Our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect and thereby materially harm our business and financial condition. 10 If future operating results of Luxcel Biosciences Limited (Luxcel) do not meet our expectations, there is the possibility that our investment in this affiliated company could be deemed to be impaired, and thus a potential write-down may be warranted. In January 2010, we acquired a minority equity interest in Luxcel for €2,500,000 (approximately $3,625,000). This investment is carried on our consolidated balance sheet at historical cost, adjusted only for currency fluctuations. We periodically assess this equity investment for other-than-temporary impairment. If there are events or changes in circumstances that might adversely affect the value of this investment, we must assess whether the amount of this investment reflected on the balance sheet exceeds its fair value. Any write-down will reduce our reported net income and could possibly have a negative effect on our stock price. Information related to future cash flows of Luxcel is not readily available as the entity is a start-up research and development company and future cash flows are highly dependent on their ability to obtain additional funding, gain acceptance of its products in the marketplace, and obtain regulatory approvals. We face risks of technological changes that may render our products obsolete. The markets for our products and services are characterized by technological change and evolving industry standards. As a result of such changes and evolving standards, our products may become noncompetitive or obsolete and we may have to develop new products in order to maintain or increase our sales. New product introductions that are responsive to these factors require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels, and we may not be able to timely develop new products. In addition, industry acceptance of new technologies that we may develop may be slow due to, among other things, existing regulations or standards written specifically for older technologies and general unfamiliarity of users with new technologies. As a result, any new products that we may develop may not generate any meaningful sales or profits for us for a number of years, if at all. A significant portion of our sales are generated from foreign countries and selling in foreign countries entails a number of risks which could result in a decrease in our sales or an increase in our operating expenses. Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 67% of our sales in 2013, 64% in 2012 and 56% in 2011, and we expect that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the future. Sales to customers in foreign countries are subject to a number of risks including, among others: ● agreements may be difficult to enforce; ● receivables may be difficult to collect; ● certain regions may experience political unrest and conflict and economic instability; ● foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; ● the countries into which we sell may impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; 11 ● currency fluctuations could reduce reported profitability in future periods; ● fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand; ● legal and regulatory requirements may be difficult to monitor and comply with, especially if inconsistent with U.S. laws and regulations; ● customizing products for foreign countries and managing and staffing international operations may lead to increased costs; and ● protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult to enforce. If any of these risks were to materialize, our sales into foreign countries could decline, or our operating costs could increase, which would adversely affect our financial results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and net earnings. Because the functional currency of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency transaction risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales to third party customers and purchases from suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. From time to time, we have elected to engage in hedging activity to mitigate our risk in this area. At December 31, 2013, there were no forward contract hedge instruments in place in our foreign operations. In addition, a portion of our international revenue is derived through third party distributors. As a result, we are dependent upon the financial health of our distributors. We also are dependent upon the compliance of our distributors with foreign laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. If a distributor were to go out of business, it would take substantial time, cost and resources to find a suitable replacement. We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates between the U. S. dollar and the Danish krone as a result of the seller note financing instrument in connection with the acquisition of Dansensor. We have purchased a foreign currency contract as an economic hedge against any future exchange rate changes relating to this financing. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do, which may provide our competitors with an advantage in the development and marketing of new products. We currently encounter, and expect to continue to encounter, competition in the sale of our products. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products include product quality and performance, price, reliability and customer service. Our competitors include large multinational corporations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Our current products, products under development and our ability to discover new technologies may be insufficient to enable us to compete effectively with our competitors. 12 Our reliance upon patents, domestic trademark laws, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products. We hold patents relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of our products. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Our competitors may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There may also be pending or issued patents held by parties not affiliated with us that relate to our products or technologies and we may need to acquire licenses to any such patents to continue selling some or all of our products. If we are required to obtain any such license in order to be able to continue to sell some or all of our products, we may not be able to do so on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, accounting, and other functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment. The failure of our management information systems to perform could disrupt our business and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may encounter difficulties as we upgrade and evolve the capabilities of our computer systems, which could adversely impact our abilities to accomplish anticipated future cost savings and better serve our customers. We recently implemented a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system which included a major upgrade of the software used to run a number of the key processes critical to our business. We have experienced unanticipated difficulties in preparing financial reports on a timely basis using the system which has resulted in a failure to file some periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis. In addition, these difficulties have also caused us to incur additional expense in preparing reports using alternate means. Although we have implemented a remediation plan to correct the issues we have had with this system, if the remediation plan is not successful or if we continue to have difficulties obtaining timely financial information from the system, we will continue to incur additional costs to prepare our periodic reports and we may have other delinquent filings. In addition, if the new system does not otherwise function according to our expectations, it could adversely impact our results of operations and hinder our ability to adequately serve our customers. 13 The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, and will likely continue to do so in the future, and any broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past, ranging from a high sales price of $15.80 and a low sales price of $13.28 during 2013, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: ● announcements of new products by us or our competitors; ● quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; ● merger and acquisition activity in our industry segment; ● customer contract awards; ● a change to the rates at which we have historically paid dividends, which could be impacted by our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank; ● developments in regulation; and ● general economic and political conditions in the various markets where our products are sold. In addition, the stock prices of instrumentation companies have experienced significant fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. This market volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Complying with securities laws and regulations is costly for us. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations promulgated by the SEC and Nasdaq, are creating particular challenges for smaller publicly-held companies like us. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If we experience any increase in the cost of raw materials or supplies, we may experience a decrease in profit margins. In the past, the overall cost of the materials that we purchase has not risen much more than the rate of inflation. We believe that the price of our products and the prices of our competitors’ products is a significant factor affecting our customers’ buying decisions and consequently, we may not be able to pass along any cost increases in raw materials and supplies in the form of price increases or sustain profit margins that we have achieved in prior years. 14 We have spent significant resources to develop new products in the food and beverage safety and packaging industries, and we have thus far only realized minimal revenues from these products. Over the past three years we began to market our newest BevAlert system and OpTech-O2 analyzer. We believe that there are significant addressable markets for both of these products and while we believe both of these products are superior in many respects to other similar products being sold by our competitors, each one is new to the marketplace and may not gain the market acceptance necessary to allow us to capitalize on what we believe will be an increasing demand in the food and beverage industries for safety testing and monitoring products. While we have realized increasing sales of our BevAlert system and modest sales to date of our OpTech-O2 analyzer, there can be no assurance that sales of these products will continue. In August 2011, we introduced the GreenLight food safety test instrument which determines the presence or absence of bacteria in food products or ingredients. While we believe this product represents a dramatic improvement over existing technology being used in the food industry, we have not realized significant revenues to date. If we are not able to successfully market these products, we will not recover the significant research and development and other expenses we have incurred to bring these products to market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 