Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the Commission contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our future performance, our business, our beliefs, and our management’s assumptions. In 12 addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward-looking statements in press releases or written statements, or in our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, web casts, phone calls, and conference calls. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “could,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “should,” “may,” “assume,” “potential,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We describe our respective risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could affect the outcome or results of operations below. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to them at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied, or forecast by our forward-looking statements. Reference is made in particular to forward looking statements regarding growth strategies, industry trends, financial results, cost reduction initiatives, acquisition synergies, manufacturing strategies, product development and sales, regulatory approvals, and competitive strengths. Except as required under the federal securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the filing of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions, or otherwise. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. Such risks are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business We may be adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn or economic uncertainty. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by global economic conditions. As global economic conditions deteriorate or economic uncertainty increases, our customers and potential customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may result in the delay or cancellation of plans to purchase our products. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in the businesses of our customers or potential customers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may see a negative effect on our business due to disruptions in financial markets. Economic downturns and economic uncertainty generally affect global credit markets. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuation of others. While these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. The tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing of significant purchases and operations and this can in turn have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the success of our customers. We are dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers. Our customers generally are OEM’s in the telecommunications, data product, automotive, consumer, and industrial markets. These industries are subject to rapid technological change, vigorous competition 13 and short product life cycles and cyclical and reduced consumer demand patterns. When our customers are adversely affected by these factors, we may be similarly affected. For example, the telecommunications market, which accounted for approximately 25% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation. The data market, which accounted for 22% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010, has fluctuated seasonally and is subject to variations in enterprise spending depending on current economic and credit conditions. Periodic downturns in our customers’ industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. Over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure to lower our prices. In the last three years, we have experienced annual price erosion averaging from 3.8% to 4.0%. In order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. Continuing pressures to reduce our prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face rising costs of commodity materials. The cost and availability of certain commodity materials used to manufacture our products, such as plastic resins, copper-based metal alloys, gold and palladium salts, molded and stamped components and connector assemblies, is critical to our success. The price of many of these raw materials, including copper and gold, has increased in recent years, and continues to fluctuate. Gold, which made up approximately 12% of our material cost in fiscal 2010, has increased in price approximately 33% since 2008. In addition, many of these commodity materials are produced in a limited number of regions around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. Volatility in the prices and shortages of such materials may result in increased costs and lower operating margins if we are unable to pass such increased costs through to our customers. Our results of operation, financial conditions and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these commodity materials, the quality of available commodity materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these commodity materials. From time to time, we use financial instruments to hedge the volatility of commodity material costs. The success of our hedging program depends on accurate forecast of transaction activity in the various commodity materials. We could experience unanticipated commodity materials or hedge gains or losses if these forecasts are inaccurate during periods of volatility. We face intense competition in our markets. Our markets are highly competitive and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality and performance of our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology and our ability to participate in emerging markets. Within each of our markets, we encounter direct competition from other electronic components manufacturers and suppliers ranging in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. Competition may intensify from various U.S. and non-U.S. competitors and new market entrants, some of which may be our current customers. Our markets have continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 We are dependent on new products. We expect that a significant portion of our future net revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs characterize the market for our products. If we fail to modify or improve our products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make investments in research and development in order to continue to develop timely new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. As a result of our need to make these investments in research and development, our operating results could be materially affected if our net revenue fall below expectations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change and these licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profit margin that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. We face manufacturing challenges. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: variation in demand for our customers’ products; our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; design changes; changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategy; and acquisitions of or consolidations among customers. Due in part to these factors, many of our customers do not commit to long-term production schedules. Our inability to forecast the level of customer order with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our industry must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround for its customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and we continue to experience reduced lead-times in customer orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons and such actions could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we make significant operating decisions based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. We rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. Our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected if our third party suppliers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. If our third-party manufacturers fail to deliver products, parts, and components of sufficient quality on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. From time to time, we have underutilized our manufacturing lines. This excess capacity means we incur increased fixed costs in our products relative to the net revenue we generate, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. If we are unable to improve utilization levels for these manufacturing lines and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our manufacturing lines are located in China or other foreign countries that are subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including increasing labor costs and political, social and economic instability. 15 We are dependent on independent distributors to sell and market our products. Sales through independent distributors accounted for approximately 26% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010. Although we have entered into written agreements with most of the distributors, the agreements are nonexclusive and generally may be terminated by either party upon written notice. The distributors are not within our control, are not obligated to purchase products from us, and may also sell other lines of products. We do not assure you that these distributors will continue their current relationships with us or that they will not give higher priority to the sale of other products, which could include products of competitors. A reduction in sales efforts or discontinuance of sales of our products by the distributors would lead to reduced sales and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business. Selling through indirect channels such as distributors may limit our contact with the ultimate customers and our ability to assure customer satisfaction. We face industry consolidation. Many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become increasingly concentrated in recent years, including the telecommunications, data products, automotive and consumer electronics industries. Consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. In addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they may be able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. Our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. These trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. We depend on industries exposed to rapid technological change. Our customers compete in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. These conditions frequently result in short product life cycles. Our success will depend largely on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. If technologies or standards supported by our customers’ products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to offer technologically advanced, cost effective, quick response manufacturing services to customers, demand for our products may also decline. We face the possibility that our gross margins may decline. In response to changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, introductions of new competitive products, product enhancements by our competitors, increases in manufacturing or labor costs or other operating expenses, we may experience declines in prices, gross margins and profitability. To maintain our gross margins we must maintain or increase current shipment volumes, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and reduce the costs to produce our products. If we are unable to accomplish this, our net revenue, gross profit and operating results may be below our expectations and those of investors and analysts. We face risks associated with inventory. The value of our inventory may decline as a result of surplus inventory, price reductions or technological obsolescence. The life cycles of some of our products can be very short compared with the development cycle, which may result in excess or obsolete inventory or equipment that we may need to write off. We must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our net revenue and operating results. However, if circumstances change (for example, an unexpected shift in market demand, pricing or customer defaults) there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of our inventory. We maintain an inventory valuation reserve account against diminution in the value or salability of our 16 inventory. However, there is no guaranty that these arrangements will be sufficient to avoid write-offs in excess of our reserves in all circumstances. We may encounter problems associated with our global operations. For fiscal year 2010, more than 76% of our net revenue come from international sales. In addition, a significant portion of our operations consists of manufacturing and sales activities outside of the U.S. Our ability to sell our products and conduct our operations globally is subject to a number of risks. Local economic, political and labor conditions in each country could adversely affect demand for our products and services or disrupt our operations in these markets. We may also experience reduced intellectual property protection or longer and more challenging collection cycles as a result of different customary business practices in certain countries where we do business. Additionally, we face the following risks: • International business conditions including the relationships between the U.S. and other governments; • Unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade, monetary or fiscal policy, including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the rate of inflation in the U.S. and other foreign countries; • Tariffs, quotas, customs and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers; • Difficulties in staffing and management; • Language and cultural barriers, including those related to employment regulation; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We face substantial exposure to movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S. This may harm our results of operations, and any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our global operations may not be effective. Approximately 57% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2010 was invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and we expect net revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our margins. Our international net revenue and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries in which we sell our products, our U.S. dollar reported net revenue and income will decrease. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also disrupt the business of our suppliers by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. We mitigate our foreign currency exchange rate risk principally through the establishment of local production facilities in the markets we serve. This creates a “natural hedge” since purchases and sales within a specific country are both denominated in the same currency and therefore no exposure exists to hedge with a foreign exchange forward or option contract (collectively, “foreign exchange contracts”). Natural hedges exist in most countries in which we operate, although the percentage of natural offsets, as compared with offsets that need to be hedged by foreign exchange contracts, will vary from country to country. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates when natural hedges are not effective, we may use financial instruments to hedge U.S. dollar and other currency commitments and cash flows arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. If these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates or financial instruments which become ineffective. The success of our hedging program depends on 17 accurate forecasts of transaction activity in the various currencies. To the extent that these forecasts are over or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated currency or hedge gains or losses. We may find that our products have quality issues. The fabrication of the products we manufacture is a complex and precise process. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and product re-work or replacement costs. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, these may not be sufficient to avoid product failures, which could cause us to: • lose net revenue; • incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; • experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; • experience increased product returns or discounts; or • damage our reputation; all of which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to manage our growth effectively or to integrate successfully any future acquisition, our business could be harmed. We expect to continue to make investments in companies, products and technologies through acquisitions. While we believe that such acquisitions are an integral part of our long-term strategy, there are risks and uncertainties related to acquiring companies. Such risks and uncertainties include: • Successfully identifying and completing transactions; • Difficulty in integrating acquired operations, technology and products or realizing cost savings or other anticipated benefits from integration; • Retaining customers and existing contracts; • Retaining the key employees of the acquired operation; • Potential disruption of our or the acquired company’s ongoing business; • Charges for impairment of long-term assets; • Unanticipated expenses related to integration; and • Potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company. In addition, if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. This acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. Any necessary acquisition financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our stock. We face risks arising from reorganizations of our operations. In 2007, we announced plans to realign part of our manufacturing capacity in order to reduce costs and better optimize plant utilization. We completed our restructuring program on June 30, 2010 and recorded restructuring related charges of $314.8 million since we announced the plans. The 18 process of restructuring entails, among other activities, moving production between facilities, reducing staff levels, realigning our business processes (including our supply chain logistics), closing facilities, and reorganizing our management. During the course of executing the restructuring, we incurred material non-cash charges such as write-downs of inventories or other tangible assets. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually or when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. If we record an impairment charge as a result of this analysis, it could have a material impact on our results of operations. We continue to evaluate our operations and may need to undertake additional restructuring initiatives in the future. If we incur additional restructuring related charges, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, in fiscal 2009, we reorganized our global product divisions to enable us to work more effectively as a global team to meet customer needs, as well as to better leverage design expertise and the low-cost production centers we have around the world. This reorganization entails risks, including: the need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources; the challenge to maintain the quality of products and services; the possible diversion of management’s attention to the reorganization; the potential disruption to our ongoing business; greater than anticipated severance costs and other expenses associated with the closing of a facility or realigning our business processes. We depend on our key employees and face competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key employees, including executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. We face intense competition for key personnel in several of our product and geographic markets. Our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain key employees, including qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to compete and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as competitors at recruiting, assimilating and retaining highly skilled personnel. We are subject to various laws and government regulations. We are subject to a wide and ever-changing variety of U.S. and foreign federal, state and local laws and regulations, compliance with which may require substantial expense. Of particular note are laws and regulations, restricting the use of certain chemical substances in the production of electronic equipment. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in fines or suspension of sales. In addition, some environment laws impose liability, sometimes without fault, for investigating or cleaning up contamination on or emanating from our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated property, as well as for damages to property or natural resources and for personal injury arising out of such contamination. We rely on our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. Even if approved, our patents or trademarks may be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Also, to the extent a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have an adverse affect on our business and financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us 19 to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the manufacture and sale of affected products. We could suffer significant business interruptions. Our operations and those of our suppliers may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, or floods, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, disease or failures of our management information or other systems. If a business interruption occurs, our business could be materially and adversely affected. A decline in the market value of our pension plans’ investment portfolios could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with the current credit crisis, have caused significant volatility in interest rates and equity prices, which could decrease the value of our pension plans’ investment portfolios. A decrease in the value of our pension plans’ investment portfolios could have an adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may have exposure to income tax rate fluctuations and to additional tax liabilities, which could negatively affect our financial position. As a corporation with operations both in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant fluctuation from one period to the next because the income tax rates for each year are a function of a number of factors, including the following: • The effects of a mix of profits or losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in numerous foreign tax jurisdictions with a broad range of tax rates; • Our ability to use recorded deferred tax assets; • Changes in uncertain tax positions, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; and • Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of these laws. Changes in the mix of these items and other items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Recently, the Obama administration proposed legislation that would change how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on their foreign income. If such legislation is enacted, it may have a material adverse impact to our tax rate and in turn, our profitability. In addition, if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically or at a particular location that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings, or other internal or external sources, we may experience unfavorable tax and earnings consequences due to cash transfers. These adverse consequences would occur, for example, if the transfer of cash into the U.S. is taxed and no offsetting foreign tax credit is available to offset the U.S. tax liability, resulting in lower earnings. In addition, we may be prohibited from transferring cash from a country such as China. Foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local governments and the sometimes lengthy approval processes that foreign governments require for international cash transfers may delay our internal cash transfers from time to time. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to both income and non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of these audits. Unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in 20 payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us if we are determined not to be in compliance. Our material debt instruments contain representations and covenants with which we are required to be in compliance. Although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet these representations and/or covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we do not assure you that we will continue to comply. A breach of any of these representations and/or covenants could result in a default giving the lender(s) the right to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and our lender(s) could terminate commitments to extend further credit. If the lender(s) accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we do not assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our affected indebtedness. In addition, acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the lender(s) under other material debt instruments to accelerate payment of amounts outstanding. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include antitakeover provisions, which may deter or prevent a takeover attempt. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover that might result in a premium over the market price for our Common Stock and Class A Common Stock. Our governing documents establish a classified board, require shareholders to give advance notice prior to the annual meeting if they want to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal, and contain a number of provisions subject to supermajority vote. In addition, the Board may issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock without action by our stockholders, which could be used to make it more difficult and costly to acquire our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 