Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is currently in default under its senior credit agreement and therefore may not have access to financing necessary to support its business and to satisfy its obligations as they come due. The Company is currently in default under its senior credit facility as a result of its failure, among other things, to satisfy the financial covenants of its Credit Agreement as of March 1, 2008. These defaults entitle the lenders under the senior credit facility, among other things, to receive default interest and to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, as a result of these defaults, the Company is currently prohibited from borrowing under its revolving credit facility. As of March 1, 2008, the Company had $11.6 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand. On July 15, 2008, the Company is required to make an interest payment on the Notes of $6.2 million, and unless the Company can restructure its existing senior indebtedness or secure additional financing prior to that time, the Company may not have sufficient liquidity to make that payment and thereafter continue to satisfy its liquidity and working capital requirements. In light of current market conditions for debt financing, the Company’s current financial condition and the Company’s lack of significant unencumbered assets, it is possible that the Company will be unable to secure additional financing and/or restructure its current indebtedness. If the Company is unable to secure additional financing or restructure its current indebtedness, it may be required to file for bankruptcy protection. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. However, the Company is currently in default under its senior credit agreement, and if the Company is unable to amend the terms of or to restructure or refinance its current outstanding indebtedness, the Company may not be able to continue as a going concern. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its opinion that accompanies the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended March 1, 2008, indicating that the Company’s current liquidity position raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is currently in default under its senior credit facility as a result of its failure, among other things, to satisfy the financial covenants of its Credit Agreement as of March 1, 2008. These defaults entitle the lenders under the senior credit facility, among other things, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. An acceleration under the senior credit facility would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes, entitling the indenture trustee or the holders of at least 25% of the Notes outstanding to declare all amounts owing under the Notes to also be immediately due and payable. In addition, the defaults under the Company’s senior credit facility creates a default under the Company’s interest rate swap agreement. On June 16, 2008, the Company voluntarily terminated the swap agreement. As a result of early termination, approximately $4.0 million in net settlement payments are due and payable upon demand. The Company does not currently have cash available to satisfy these obligations if they were to be accelerated or terminated. The Company is currently exploring various strategic and restructuring alternatives, including a restructuring of its outstanding indebtedness. If the Company is unable to successfully restructure its indebtedness, it may be unable to continue as a going concern, which will be dependent, among other things, upon the Company’s ability to return to profitable operations in the future and to obtain the necessary financing to meet its obligations and pay its liabilities when they come due. Failure to continue as a going concern may cause the Company to be unable to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business and could cause investors to suffer the loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment in the Company. 6 The Company’s current financial condition has adversely affected its business operations and its business prospects. The Company’s current financial condition and its resulting uncertainty have been disruptive to the business. Management of the Company has devoted substantial time and attention to addressing the situation, thereby reducing its focus on operating the business. In addition, the Company’s current financial condition and its resulting uncertainty may also cause employee attrition, vendors and suppliers to terminate their relationship with the Company or to tighten credit; and could result in the loss of existing customers or the Company’s inability to attract new customers. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, some of which are beyond its control. These factors could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to satisfy its obligations in the future will depend on future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond the Company’s control, including interest rates and general economic, financial, and business conditions. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow, it may be required to refinance its current debt, enter into an amendment to its Credit Agreement, or redirect a substantial portion of its cash flow to debt service, which as a result, might not be available for its operations or other purposes, sell some of its assets or operations, reduce or delay capital expenditures, revise or delay its operations or strategic plans. If the Company is required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company cannot guarantee it would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable it to continue to satisfy its capital requirements, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of its Notes or Credit Agreement. Any material changes to, cutbacks in, or termination of the USDA’s Commodity Program could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales to schools and the Company’s financial condition. A substantial portion of the products that the Company sells to schools use commodities provided to the schools through the USDA’s Commodity Program. These programs provide food and nutrition assistance to certain eligible institutions. The programs are designed to assist farmers in order to maintain stable commodity prices and to provide nutritious foods to children. The Company produces many of its pre-cooked and ready-to-cook proteins using commodities provided by customers through this program, which it converts to finished products and sells to its customers. If this program were terminated or significantly curtailed due to budgetary constraints, or if the program were changed in a way that neutralizes what the Company believes is its competitive advantage in complying with program guidelines, the Company may be unable to continue to sell these products to schools at current volumes. In addition, the Company provided a letter of credit in the amount of $5.7 million in fiscal 2008 to its insurance carrier for the underwriting of certain performance bonds. If the Company is unable to renew or obtain a new letter of credit provided to its insurance carrier for the underwriting of the performance bonds required by this program, the Company may be ineligible to participate in this program. A material change to, cutback in, or termination of the USDA’s Commodity Program, or the Company’s failure to meet the program requirements, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. In addition, in order to participate in the USDA’s Commodity Reprocessing Program, the Company must provide, on or prior to July 1, 2008, a letter of credit to secure a performance bond required by the USDA. Due to the Company’s current financial condition, the Company may be required to fund all or a substantial portion of the required letter of credit. If the Company does not have the ability to fund or cannot otherwise provide the required letter of credit, the Company will be unable to participate in the USDA’s Commodity Reprocessing Program, which will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results Restrictive covenants in the Company’s debt instruments restrict or prohibit the Company’s ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect the Company. The indenture governing the Company’s Notes and the Company’s Credit Agreement contain various restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s discretion in operating its business. In particular, those agreements limit the Company’s ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · make certain investments or acquisitions; · create liens on its assets to secure additional debt; · enter into commodity hedging or similar agreements; · engage in certain transactions with affiliates; · merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of its assets; and · transfer and sell assets. These covenants could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business by limiting its ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities to fund its operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indenture governing the Notes and the Company’s credit facility. 7 The Company is subject to ongoing financial covenants under its Credit Agreement, and the Company is not in compliance with those covenants as of March 1, 2008. As a result, the lenders under such facility may accelerate the Company’s borrowings. If the Company is unable to enter into an amendment or waiver of such financial covenants, it will be unable to borrow additional amounts and may be forced to declare bankruptcy. Effective June 30, 2004, the Company obtained a $190 million credit facility, which subsequently increased in order to finance two acquisitions made by the Company. In addition, funds available under this facility are available for working capital requirements, permitted investments and general corporate purposes. All of the Company’s indebtedness under the Credit Agreement is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of the Company’s assets. As of March 1, 2008, the Company’s borrowings under this credit facility totaled $241.0 million. As of September 1, 2007, the Company was in default under the consolidated leverage ratio covenant in its Credit Agreement. Effective October 10, 2007, the Company obtained a waiver of such default from the required lenders and entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement, which amended, among other things, the financial covenants in the Credit Agreement and increased the applicable interest rates for term loans and the revolving credit facility. As of March 1, 2008, the Company was in default under the financial covenants in its Credit Agreement. Failure to meet these covenants allows the lenders under Credit Agreement to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. An acceleration under the Company’s credit facility would trigger a cross-default in the indenture governing its Notes, thereby allowing its bondholders to accelerate the repayment of all amounts outstanding on the Notes. On June 2, 2008, the Company received notice from its senior lenders that the default rate of interest under the senior credit facility will be charged as of February 29, 2008. In addition, the default prohibits the Company from renewing or obtaining new letters of credit, which are required to operate the business, including to secure a performance bond required by the USDA under its Commodity Program. The default also causes a cross-default under the Company’s interest rate swap agreements. The Company is actively evaluating various strategic and restructuring alternatives. The default of the Company under its Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect to the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Changes in the Company’s credit ratings may have a negative impact on the Company’s financing cost, the availability of capital, and the interest rate the Company pays on borrowings on its credit facility. Some of the Company’s debt is rated by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, and there are a number of factors beyond the control of the Company with respect to such ratings. A downgrade in such ratings could increase the Company’s cost of capital should the Company refinance all or a portion of its debt, or attempt to obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, a downgrade could increase the interest rate the Company pays on borrowings under its credit facility. The recent downgrade of the Company’s rating has resulted in a termination of the Company’s credit card program for employees of the Company. An increase in the Company’s cost of capital could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect the Company’s reported results of operations or financial position. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to the Company’s business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, inventories, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change the Company’s reported or expected financial performance or financial position. If the Company’s management determines that its goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, the Company may be required to write off part or all of such assets, which would adversely affect its financial position and results of operations. The Company has goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $112.1 million and $357.8 million as of March 1, 2008 and March 3, 2007, respectively, which constituted approximately 32% and 60%, respectively, of its total assets. The amount of goodwill and other intangible assets as of March 1, 2008 reflects impairment charges taken by the Company in the current year as a result of its periodic evaluation of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such impairment charges included a total of $172.1 million and $47.3 million for goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively. In addition, the Company also took impairment charges of approximately $3.0 million related to formulas developed for a customer that the Company classifies as other non-current assets. The Company will continue to periodically evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. Any future determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of the Company’s goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. 8 Increases in the price of raw materials, particularly beef, chicken, pork, and cheese, or increases in the cost of manufacturing, distribution, and other costs, could reduce the Company’s operating margins if the Company is unable to offset such increasing costs by increasing prices to its customers. The Company’s food processing operations require the use of raw materials, labor, energy, fuel, and other inputs related to the production and distribution of its food products. The primary raw materials used in the Company’s food processing operations are boneless beef, chicken, and pork, flour, yeast, seasonings, cheese, breading, soy proteins, peanut butter, and packaging supplies. Meat proteins are generally purchased under seven day payment terms, with the exception of a few that require payment at the time the product is shipped. Historically, the Company has not hedged in the futures markets, and over time, the Company’s raw material costs have fluctuated with movement in the relevant commodity markets. During fiscal 2008, the weighted average prices the Company paid for beef, chicken, pork, and cheese increased by approximately 1.5%, 24.6%, 7.4%, and 37.1%, respectively, over the weighted average prices the Company paid for these raw materials during fiscal 2007. While historically the Company has attempted to manage such fluctuations through purchase orders, market-related pricing contracts, fixed-price contracts, and by passing on such cost increases to customers, the Company has not always been successful and may be unable to protect itself from future increases in the prices of raw materials on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, some of the Company’s customers purchase products based on bid contracts with set prices, which would prevent the Company from recovering any raw materials price increases from these customers during the life of those contracts. If prices for beef, chicken, pork, and cheese were to increase significantly without a commensurate increase in the price for processed food products, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. If the Company’s products become contaminated or are mislabeled, the Company may be subject to product liability claims, product recalls, and increased scrutiny by regulators, any of which could adversely affect the Company and its business. Beef, chicken, and pork products are vulnerable to contamination by organisms producing food-borne illnesses. These organisms are generally found in the environment, and, as a result, there is a risk that as a result of food processing, they could be found in the Company’s products. For example, E. coli is one of many food-borne pathogens commonly associated with beef products. In addition, certain of the Company’s products contain wheat gluten, which has potential contamination risks. If contaminated products are shipped for distribution, illness and death could result if the pathogens are not eliminated by processing at the foodservice or consumer level. The risk can be controlled, but not eliminated, by use of good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. Also, products purchased from others for re-packing or distribution may contain contaminants that the Company is unable to identify. The Company may also encounter the same risks if a third party tampers with its products or if its products are inadvertently mislabeled. Shipment of adulterated products, even if inadvertent, is a violation of law and may lead to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company’s insurance and indemnification agreements may be inadequate to cover all the liabilities the Company may incur and could have an adverse effect on the Company and its business. The Company faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims and adverse public relations in the event that the consumption of its products causes injury or illness. If a product liability claim is successful, the Company’s insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities it may incur, including harm to its reputation, and the Company may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. The Company generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from its suppliers, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited by the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and its insurance carriers, if any, as well as the insured limits of any insurance provided by those suppliers. If the Company does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. A decline in meat consumption, or in the consumption of processed food products or the Company’s failure to identify or react to changing demand for its products, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and operating results. Adverse publicity relating to health concerns and the nutritional value of meat and meat products or individual states implementing nutrition guidelines limiting the degree to which the Company can sell its products could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products. In addition, as substantially all of the Company’s operations consist of the production and distribution of processed food products, a change in consumer preferences relating to processed food products or in consumer perceptions regarding the nutritional value of processed food products could significantly reduce the Company’s sales volume. A reduction in demand for the Company’s products caused by these factors would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and operating results. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands, and preferences. The Company’s processed protein and bakery products compete with other processed convenience foods, as well as other foods. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in consumer preferences could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and reduced margins for its products, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and operating results. 9 Outbreaks of disease among cattle, chicken or pigs could significantly reduce demand for the Company’s products and restrict its ability to produce meat and sandwich products, adversely affecting its sales volume and financial condition. An outbreak of disease affecting livestock, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (commonly referred to as “mad cow disease” or BSE), foot-and-mouth disease, Asian bird flu, or most recently, the contamination of wheat gluten, could result in reductions in demand and restrictions on sales of products to the Company’s customers or purchases of meat and poultry products from its suppliers. Health concerns about BSE in particular have had an adverse impact on the livestock industry and on sales of beef products in Europe, South America and Japan in past years, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The categories of the food industry in which the Company operates are highly competitive, and the Company’s inability to compete successfully could adversely affect its business, results of operations, and financial condition. Competition in each of the categories of the food industry in which the Company operates is intense. The Company’s formed, pre-cooked and ready-to-cook protein products compete with the products of several meat processors, which include Advance Food Company, Tyson, JTM Food Group, King’s Command Foods, Inc., and Don Lee Farms, in addition to competing with smaller local and regional producers. The market for hand-held convenience sandwiches has low barriers to entry and is extremely fragmented, with several direct competitors, including Sara Lee/Jimmy Dean Foods, Bridgford Foods Corp., Deli Express, and Landshire, and indirect competition from a variety of substitute products. Many of the Company’s competitors in each of these categories have substantially greater financial resources, name recognition, research and development, marketing, and human resources. In addition, if any of the Company’s competitors develop new or enhanced products that are superior to the Company’s products, or market and sell their products more successfully than the Company, the Company may be unable to compete successfully with any or all of these companies. Increased competition for any of the Company’s products could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could negatively affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company’s top ten customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of its net revenues and its largest customer accounted for approximately 11% of net revenues for fiscal 2008. The Company’s top ten customers accounted for approximately 46% and 51% of its net revenues in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. In particular, the Company’s largest customer accounted for approximately 11% and 14% of net revenues in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. If, for any reason, one of the Company’s key customers were to purchase significantly less of the Company’s products in the future or were to terminate purchases from the Company, or if for any reason the Company was unable to renew an existing contract with a key customer on favorable terms, or at all, and the Company was not able to sell its products to new customers at comparable or greater levels, its business, financial condition, and operating results would suffer. The consolidation of and market strength among the Company’s retail and foodservice customers may put pressure on its operating margins. In recent years, the trend among the Company’s retail and foodservice customers, such as warehouse clubs and foodservice distributors, has been toward consolidation. In addition, the Company’s customers include one of the five largest quick-service hamburger restaurant chains in the United States. These factors have resulted in increased negotiating strength among many of the Company’s customers, which has and may continue to allow them to exert pressure on the Company with respect to pricing terms, product quality, and the introduction of new products. To the extent the Company’s customer base continues to consolidate, competition for the business of fewer customers may intensify. If the Company cannot continue to negotiate favorable contracts, whether upon renewal or otherwise, with these customers, implement appropriate pricing and introduce new product offerings acceptable to its customers, or if the Company loses its existing large customers, its profitability could decrease. Significant increases in the cost of distribution would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company’s distribution costs include fuel for transportation and electricity for cold storage. Significant increases in these distribution costs would adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. In addition to Zar Tran, the Company uses a core group of contract carriers that have established rates based on mileage to regions or destination states. A fuel surcharge addendum is a component of all rates to offset the fluctuating price of diesel fuel, primarily to limit the contract carrier’s exposure. These fuel surcharges have risen in past years and remain at a historic high. If these surcharges continue to rise, or if the Company is unable to pass increased distribution costs on to its customers in the form of higher prices for our products, its financial condition and operating results would suffer. The Company uses commercial cold storage vendors to store finished goods. A major component of cold storage operations expense is electricity cost. Although the Company tries to minimize storage costs, any significant increase in electricity rates for the vendor are passed along in the form of higher storage rates. If the Company’s storage rates increase significantly, it may be unable to pass thesecosts on to its customers, which would have an adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. 10 The Company may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, its SKU rationalization initiative, its inventory reduction initiative, its production cost containment initiatives, or any other ongoing initiatives. If the Company fails to implement such initiatives, anticipated cost savings and benefits would not be realized, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company’s success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, its stock keeping unit (“SKU”) rationalization initiative, its inventory reduction initiative, its production cost containment initiative, and other ongoing initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make the Company more efficient in the manufacturing and distribution of its products, which is necessary in the Company’s highly competitive industry. If the Company fails to implement its initiatives, anticipated cost savings and benefits from such initiatives would be significantly reduced and it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company manufactures many of its products using proprietary formulations and markets its products under a variety of brand names. The termination of, or failure to renew a license agreement under which the Company sells branded products, the reduction in value of an underlying license or its inability to protect ownership of proprietary formulations, could negatively impact the Company’s ability to produce and sell its products. The market for the Company’s products depends to a significant extent upon the proprietary formulations used in manufacturing its products and the goodwill associated with the brand names under which its products are sold. The Company relies on patent, trademark and trade secret law to establish and protect its intellectual property rights, including its proprietary formulations. The Company may be required from time to time to bring lawsuits against third parties to protect its intellectual property. Similarly, from time to time the Company may be party to proceedings in which third parties challenge its rights, including those to the Company’s product formulations. Any lawsuits or other actions the Company brings to enforce its rights may not be successful, and the Company may in fact be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, in either of which case the Company may not be able to prevent others from using such intellectual property and/or may be prevented from using such intellectual property, including proprietary formulations. In addition to its own brand names, the Company has licenses with third parties that own certain trademarks or trade names used in the marketing of some of the Company’s products. In the event that any such license is terminated, the Company may lose the right to use or have reduced rights to use the intellectual property covered by such agreement. In such event, the Company may not be able to secure licenses to use alternative trademarks or trade names in the marketing of its products, and its products may not be as attractive to customers. In addition, certain events, including events beyond the Company’s control, could make certain of its brand names, or the brand names it licenses, less attractive to its customers, making its products less desirable as a result. Any loss in the value of a brand name or loss of a license for a brand name could adversely affect the Company’s sales volume for affected products. The Company is subject to extensive governmental regulations, which require significant compliance expenditures and the Company’s failure to comply with such regulations could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations. Its food processing facilities and food products are subject to frequent inspection by the USDA, FDA, and various state, and local health and agricultural agencies. Applicable statutes and regulations governing food products include rules for identifying the content of specific types of foods, the nutritional value of that food and its serving size, as well as rules that protect against contamination of products by food-borne pathogens. Many jurisdictions also require that food processors adhere to good manufacturing practices (the definition of which may vary by jurisdiction) with respect to production processes. Recently, the food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight by the USDA and future outbreaks of diseases among cattle, poultry or pigs could lead to further governmental regulation. In addition, the Company’s production and distribution facilities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and workplace health. Failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, product recalls or seizures and criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance with current or future laws or regulations could require the Company to make material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect the way the Company operates its business, financial condition and operating results. Compliance with environmental regulations may result in significant costs and the Company’s failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in civil as well as criminal penalties and liability for damages. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences for the Company, including criminal as well as civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. The Company has incurred, and could incur in the future, significant capital and operating expenditures to avoid violations of these laws and regulations. Additional environmental requirements imposed in the future could require currently unanticipated investigations, assessments or expenditures, and may require the Company to incur significant additional costs. Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. As of March 1, 2008, the Company had approximately 2,629 employees. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. However, the Company could experience a material labor disruption or significantly increased labor costs at one or more of its facilities in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. 11 The Company sells a large percentage of its products to schools, which subjects its sales volumes and, thus, its operating results, to seasonal variations. The Company’s quarterly operating results are affected by the seasonal fluctuations of its sales and operating profits. The Company derived approximately 25% and 24% of its net revenues in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, from sales to schools. Since schools comprise a significant portion of the Company’s customer base, sales of its products tend to be lower during the summer months, late November, and December. These lower sales volumes negatively impact its operating profits and increase working capital requirements during the corresponding quarters of each fiscal year. The Company produces its ready-to-cook and pre-cooked protein products, compartmentalized meals, hand-held convenience sandwiches, and specialty bread products in its five manufacturing and processing facilities. A material disruption at one of these plants or an increase in demand causing inability to meet customer demands could seriously harm the Company’s financial condition and operating results. A material disruption at any of the Company’s manufacturing and processing facilities could be caused by a number of different events, including: · maintenance outages; · prolonged power failures; · equipment failure; · chemical spill or release; · fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural disasters; or · other operational problems. Any material malfunction or prolonged disruption in the operations at any of its facilities could prevent the Company from fulfilling orders to existing customers, and would limit its ability to sell products to new customers. Any material malfunction or prolonged disruption at one of the Company’s manufacturing facilities, or a significant increase in customer demands, could result in the Company’s inability to meet manufacturing requirements. Any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The Company depends upon the continued services of certain members of its senior management team, without whom its business operations would be significantly disrupted. The Company’s success depends, in part, on the continued contributions of its executive officers and other key employees. The Company’s management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. If the Company loses or suffers an extended interruption in the service of one or more of its senior officers, its financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and the Company may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of its senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. If the Company is unable to maintain or upgrade its information systems and software programs or if the Company is unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, the Company’s operations may be disrupted or become less efficient. The Company depends on a variety of information systems for the efficient functioning of its business. The Company relies on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support the Company’s business. The software programs supporting many of the Company’s systems were licensed to the Company by independent software developers. Costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of the Company’s business. Acquisitions by the Company and the integration of such businesses acquired by the Company could impair the Company’s business, financial condition, and operating results. The Company made two significant acquisitions during fiscal 2007. Although the Company has procedures in place to conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, there is no assurance that such procedures will detect all potential problems. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties including the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and negotiate acceptable terms for the acquisition, the ability to integrate the acquired businesses into a larger organization, and the availability of management resources to oversee the operations of the businesses. Successful integration requires the consolidation of financial functions and synergies, the integration of key personnel, and the maintenance and growth of the existing business. The Company has experienced difficulty in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 integrating such acquisitions, and if the Company is unable to successfully complete such integrations, it could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The Company is exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Company’s evaluation of its internal controls only provides reasonable assurances. The Company’s management has evaluated and tested the Company’s internal controls in order to allow management to report on such internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant expenses and a diversion of management’s time to meet the requirements of Section 404. If the Company is not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, it would be required to disclose material weaknesses, if any, if they develop or are uncovered and the Company may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Any such action could negatively impact the perception of the Company. In addition, the Company’s internal controls may not prevent or detect all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. 12 Although the Company was not required to include in this annual report an attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting, the Company was required to conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this evaluation, management identified a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting, however, remedial actions are expected to result in correcting the weakness. See Item 9A(T), “Controls and Procedures,” herein for further discussion. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 