Item 1A. Risk Factors. Increases in the price of raw materials, particularly beef, chicken, pork, and cheese, could reduce the Company’s operating margins. The primary raw materials used in the Company’s food processing operations are boneless beef, chicken, and pork, cheese, breading, soy proteins, and packaging supplies. Meat proteins are generally purchased under seven day payment terms, with the exception of a few that require payment at the time the product is shipped. Historically, the Company has not hedged in the futures markets, and over time, the Company’s raw material costs have fluctuated with movement in the relevant commodity markets. Prices for beef, chicken, pork, and cheese, the Company’s principal protein raw materials, reached historical highs during predecessor fiscal 2005 and successor fiscal 2005 combined. However, during successor fiscal 2007 and successor fiscal 2006, in the aggregate, the weighted average prices paid for raw materials (excluding market-related pricing contracts) decreased from the historical highs experienced in predecessor fiscal 2005 and successor fiscal 2005 combined. During successor fiscal 2007, the weighted average prices the Company paid for beef, chicken, pork, and cheese (increased)/decreased by approximately 1.2%, (8.3)%, (6.6)% and 7.3%, respectively, over the weighted average prices the Company paid for these raw materials during the fourth quarter of successor fiscal 2006. While historically the Company has managed such fluctuations through purchase orders, market-related pricing contracts, and by passing on such cost increases to customers, the Company may be unable to protect itself from future increases in the prices of raw materials on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, some of the Company’s customers purchase products based on bid contracts with set prices, which would prevent the Company from recovering any raw materials price increases from these customers during the life of those contracts. If prices for beef, chicken, pork, and cheese were to increase significantly without a commensurate increase in the price for processed protein food products, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. If the Company’s products become contaminated or are mislabeled, the Company may be subject to product liability claims, product recalls, and increased scrutiny by regulators, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s business. Beef, chicken, and pork products are vulnerable to contamination by organisms producing food-borne illnesses. These organisms are generally found in the environment, and, as a result, there is a risk that as a result of food processing, they could be found in the Company’s products. For example, E. coli is one of many food-borne pathogens commonly associated with beef products. In addition, certain of the Company’s products contain wheat gluten, which has potential contamination risks. If contaminated products are shipped for distribution, illness and death could result if the pathogens are not eliminated by processing at the foodservice or consumer level. The risk can be controlled, but not eliminated, by use of good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. Also, products purchased from others for re-packing or distribution may contain contaminants that the Company is unable to identify. The Company may also encounter the same risks if a third party tampers with its products or if its products are inadvertently mislabeled. Shipment of adulterated products, even if inadvertent, is a violation of law and may lead to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company’s insurance and indemnification agreements may be inadequate to cover all the liabilities the Company may incur. The Company faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims and adverse public relations in the event that the consumption of its products causes injury or illness. If a product liability claim is successful, the Company’s insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities it may incur, including harm to its reputation, and the Company may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. The Company generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from its suppliers, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited by the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and their insurance carriers, if any, as well as the insured limits of any insurance provided by those suppliers. If the Company does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. A decline in meat consumption, or in the consumption of processed food products, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and operating results. Adverse publicity relating to health concerns and the nutritional value of meat and meat products or individual states implementing nutrition guidelines limiting the degree to which the Company can sell its products, could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products. In addition, as substantially all of the Company’s operations consist of the production and distribution of processed food products, a change in consumer preferences relating to processed food products or in consumer perceptions regarding the nutritional value of processed food products could significantly reduce the Company’s sales volume. A reduction in demand for the Company’s products caused by these factors would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and operating results. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands, and preferences. The Company’s processed protein and bakery products compete with other processed convenience foods, as well as other foods. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in consumer preferences could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and reduced margins for its products, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and operating results. 8 Outbreaks of disease among cattle, chicken or pigs could significantly reduce demand for the Company’s products and restrict its ability to produce meat and sandwich products, adversely affecting its sales volume. An outbreak of disease affecting livestock, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (commonly referred to as “mad cow disease” or BSE), foot-and-mouth disease, Asian bird flu, or most recently, the contamination of wheat gluten, could result in reductions in demand and restrictions on sales of products to the Company’s customers or purchases of meat and poultry products from its suppliers. Health concerns about BSE in particular have had an adverse impact on the livestock industry and on sales of beef products in Europe, South America and Japan in past years, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. The categories of the food industry in which the Company operates are highly competitive, and the Company’s inability to compete successfully could adversely affect its business, results of operations, and financial condition. Competition in each of the categories of the food industry in which the Company operates is intense. The Company’s formed, pre-cooked and ready-to-cook protein products compete with the products of several meat processors, which include Advance Food Company, Tyson, JTM. Food Group, King’s Command Foods, Inc., and Don Lee Farms, in addition to competing with smaller local and regional producers. The market for hand-held convenience sandwiches has low barriers to entry and is extremely fragmented, with several direct competitors, including Sara Lee/Jimmy Dean Foods, Bridgford Foods Corp., Deli Express, and Landshire, and indirect competition from a variety of substitute products. Many of the Company’s competitors in each of these categories have substantially greater financial resources, name recognition, research and development, marketing, and human resources. In addition, if any of the Company’s competitors develop new or enhanced products that are superior to the Company’s products, or market and sell their products more successfully than the Company, the Company may be unable to compete successfully with any or all of these companies. Increased competition for any of the Company’s products could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could negatively affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company’s top ten customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of its net revenues and its largest customer accounted for approximately 14% of net revenues for successor fiscal 2007. The Company’s top ten customers accounted for approximately 51% and 55% of its net revenues in successor fiscal 2007 and successor fiscal 2006, respectively. In particular, the Company’s largest customer accounted for approximately 14% and 21% of net revenues in successor fiscal 2007 and successor fiscal 2006, respectively. If, for any reason, one of the Company’s key customers were to purchase significantly less of the Company’s products in the future or were to terminate purchases from the Company, or if for any reason the Company was unable to renew an existing contract with a key customer on favorable terms, or at all, and the Company was not able to sell its products to new customers at comparable or greater levels, its business, financial condition, and operating results would suffer. The consolidation of and market strength among the Company’s retail and foodservice customers may put pressure on its operating margins. In recent years, the trend among the Company’s retail and foodservice customers, such as warehouse clubs and foodservice distributors, has been toward consolidation. In addition, the Company’s customers include two of the five largest quick-service hamburger restaurant chains in the United States. These factors have resulted in increased negotiating strength among many of the Company’s customers, which has and may continue to allow them to exert pressure on the Company with respect to pricing terms, product quality, and the introduction of new products. To the extent the Company’s customer base continues to consolidate, competition for the business of fewer customers may intensify. If the Company cannot continue to negotiate favorable contracts, whether upon renewal or otherwise, with these customers, implement appropriate pricing and introduce new product offerings acceptable to its customers, or if the Company loses its existing large customers, its profitability could decrease. Significant increases in the cost of distribution would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company’s distribution costs include fuel for transportation and electricity for cold storage. Significant increases in these distribution costs would adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. In addition to Zar Tran, the Company uses a core group of contract carriers that have established rates based on mileage to regions or destination states. A fuel surcharge addendum is a component of all rates to offset the fluctuating price of diesel fuel, primarily to limit the contract carrier’s exposure. These fuel surcharges have risen over the past year and remain at a historic high. If these surcharges continue to rise, or if the Company is unable to pass increased distribution costs on to its customers in the form of higher prices for our products, its financial condition and operating results would suffer. The Company uses commercial cold storage vendors to store finished goods. A major component of cold storage operations expense is electricity cost. Although the Company tries to minimize storage costs, any significant increase in electricity rates for the vendor are passed along in the form of higher storage rates. If the Company’s storage rates increase significantly, it may be unable to pass these costs on to its customers, which would have an adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. 9 The Company manufactures many of its products using proprietary formulations and markets its products under a variety of brand names. The termination of, or failure to renew a license agreement under which the Company sells branded products, the reduction in value of an underlying license or its inability to protect ownership of proprietary formulations, could negatively impact the Company’s ability to produce and sell its products. The market for the Company’s products depends to a significant extent upon the proprietary formulations used in manufacturing its products and the goodwill associated with the brand names under which its products are sold. The Company relies on patent, trademark and trade secret law to establish and protect its intellectual property rights, including its proprietary formulations. The Company may be required from time to time to bring lawsuits against third parties to protect its intellectual property. Similarly, from time to time the Company may be party to proceedings in which third parties challenge its rights, including those to the Company’s product formulations. Any lawsuits or other actions the Company brings to enforce its rights may not be successful, and the Company may in fact be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, in either of which case the Company may not be able to prevent others from using such intellectual property and/or may be prevented from using such intellectual property, including proprietary formulations. In addition to its own brand names, the Company has licenses with third parties that own certain trademarks or trade names used in the marketing of some of the Company’s products. In the event that any such license is terminated, the Company may lose the right to use or have reduced rights to use the intellectual property covered by such agreement. In such event, the Company may not be able to secure licenses to use alternative trademarks or trade names in the marketing of its products, and its products may not be as attractive to customers. In addition, certain events, including events beyond the Company’s control, could make certain of its brand names, or the brand names it licenses, less attractive to its customers, making its products less desirable as a result. Any loss in the value of a brand name or loss of a license for a brand name could adversely affect the Company’s sales volume for affected products. The Company is subject to extensive governmental regulations, which require significant compliance expenditures and the Company’s failure to comply with such regulations could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations. Its food processing facilities and food products are subject to frequent inspection by the USDA, FDA, and various state, and local health and agricultural agencies. Applicable statutes and regulations governing food products include rules for identifying the content of specific types of foods, the nutritional value of that food and its serving size, as well as rules that protect against contamination of products by food-borne pathogens. Many jurisdictions also require that food processors adhere to good manufacturing practices (the definition of which may vary by jurisdiction) with respect to production processes. Recently, the food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight by the USDA and future outbreaks of diseases among cattle, poultry or pigs could lead to further governmental regulation. In addition, the Company’s production and distribution facilities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and workplace health. Failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, product recalls or seizures and criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance with current or future laws or regulations could require the Company to make material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect the way the Company operates its business, financial condition and operating results. Compliance with environmental regulations may result in significant costs and the Company’s failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in civil as well as criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences for the Company, including criminal as well as civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. The Company has incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to avoid violations of these laws and regulations. Additional environmental requirements imposed in the future could require currently unanticipated investigations, assessments or expenditures, and may require the Company to incur significant additional costs. Any material changes to, cutbacks in or termination of the USDA’s Commodity Reprocessing Program could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales to schools. A substantial portion of the products that the Company sells to schools use meat provided to the schools through the USDA’s Commodity Reprocessing Program. If this program were terminated or significantly curtailed due to budgetary constraints, or if the program were changed in a way that neutralizes what the Company believes is its competitive advantage in complying with program guidelines, the Company may be unable to continue to sell these products to schools at current volumes. These programs provide food and nutrition assistance to certain eligible institutions. The programs are designed to assist farmers, commodity producers and processors to maintain stable commodity prices and to provide nutritious foods to children. The Company produces many of its pre-cooked and ready-to-cook proteins using meat provided by customers through this program, which it re-sells to these customers. A material change to, cutback in or termination of the USDA’s Commodity Reprocessing Program could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 10 Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. As of March 3, 2007, the Company had approximately 2,800 employees. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. However, the Company could experience a material labor disruption or significantly increased labor costs at one or more of its facilities in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. The Company sells a large percentage of its products to schools, which subjects its sales volumes and, thus, its operating results, to seasonal variations. The Company’s quarterly operating results are affected by the seasonal fluctuations of its sales and operating profits. The Company derived approximately 24% and 20% of its net revenues in successor fiscal 2007 and successor fiscal 2006, respectively, from sales to schools. Since schools comprise a significant portion of the Company’s customer base, sales of its products tend to be lower during the summer months. These lower sales volumes negatively impact its operating profits during the second quarter of each fiscal year. As a result of these fluctuations, the Company believes that comparisons of its sales and operating results among different quarters within a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful and that they cannot be relied upon as indicators of the Company’s future performance. The Company produces its ready-to-cook and fully-cooked meat products, packaged sandwiches, compartmentalized meals, and specialty bread products in its eight manufacturing and processing facilities. A material disruption at one of these plants or an increase in demand causing inability to meet customer demands could seriously harm the Company’s financial condition and operating results. A material disruption at one of the Company’s manufacturing and processing facilities could be caused by a number of different events, including: · maintenance outages; · prolonged power failures; · equipment failure; · chemical spill or release; · widespread contamination of our equipment; · fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural disasters; or · other operational problems. Any material malfunction or prolonged disruption in the operations at one of its facilities could prevent the Company from fulfilling orders to existing customers, and would limit its ability to sell products to new customers. Any material malfunction or prolonged disruption at one of the Company’s meat processing facilities, or a significant increase in customer demands, could result in the Company’s inability to meet manufacturing requirements. Any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The Company depends upon the continued services of certain members of its senior management team, without whom its business operations would be significantly disrupted. The Company’s success depends, in part, on the continued contributions of its executive officers and other key employees. The Company’s management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. If the Company loses or suffers an extended interruption in the service of one or more of its senior officers, its financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and the Company may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of its senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. The Company’s ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, some of which are beyond its control. These factors could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to satisfy its obligations, including its New Notes and its credit facility will depend on the Company’s future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond the Company’s control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow, it may be required to refinance all or a portion of its debt, including the New Notes and its credit facility, obtain additional financing in the future for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate or other purposes, redirect a substantial portion of its cash flow to debt service, which as a result, might not be available for its operations or other purposes, sell some of its assets or operations, reduce or delay capital expenditures, or revise or delay its operations or strategic plans. If the Company is required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company cannot guarantee it would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable it to continue to satisfy its capital requirements, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of its New Notes or credit facility. 11 Restrictive covenants in the Company’s debt instruments restrict or prohibit the Company’s ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect the Company. The indenture governing the Company’s New Notes and its credit facility contain various restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s discretion in operating its business. In particular, those agreements limit the Company’s ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · make certain investments or acquisitions; · create liens on its assets to secure additional debt; · engage in certain transactions with affiliates; · merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of its assets; and · transfer and sell assets. These covenants could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business by limiting its ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities to fund its operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indenture governing the Company’s New Notes and its credit facility. If the Company’s management determines that its goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, the Company may be required to write off part of such assets, which would adversely affect its financial position and results of operations. The Company has goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $357.8 million and $321.4 million as of March 3, 2007 and March 4, 2006, respectively, which constituted approximately 60% and 68%, respectively, of its total assets. The Company periodically evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. Any future determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of its goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. If the Company is unable to maintain or upgrade its information systems and software programs or if the Company is unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, the Company’s operations may be disrupted or become less efficient. The Company depends on a variety of information systems for the efficient functioning of its business. The Company relies on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support the Company’s business. The software programs supporting many of the Company’s systems were licensed to the Company by independent software developers. Costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of the Company’s business. Acquisitions by the Company and the integration of such businesses acquired by the Company could impair the Company’s business, financial condition, and operating results. The Company made two significant acquisitions during successor fiscal 2007 and may acquire other businesses in the future. Although the Company has procedures in place to conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, there is no assurance that such procedures will detect all potential problems. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties including the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and negotiate acceptable terms for the acquisition, the ability to integrate the acquired businesses into a larger organization, and the availability of management resources to oversee the operations of the businesses. Successful integration requires the consolidation of financial functions and synergies, the integration of key personnel, and the maintenance and growth of the existing business. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate recently acquired businesses and businesses acquired in the future, it could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 12 