Item 1A. Risk Factors.The markets we serve are cyclical and sensitive to domestic and foreign economic conditions and events, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The markets we serve are sensitive to fluctuations in general business cycles as well as domestic and foreign economic conditions and events. For example, our defense programs are largely contingent on U.S. Department of Defense funding. Our space programs rely on the same governmental funding as well as commercial investment into exploration activities. Demand for our industrial systems products is dependent upon several factors, including capital investment, product innovations, economic growth, cost-reduction efforts and technology upgrades. In addition, the commercial airline industry is cyclical and sensitive to fuel price increases, labor disputes and economic conditions. These factors could result in a reduction in the amount of air travel, which could reduce service and maintenance orders for flight controls and spare parts, thereby reducing our commercial market sales. Changes in medical reimbursement rates of insurers to medical service providers could impact our sale of medical products.We operate in highly competitive markets with competitors who may have greater resources than we possess. Many of our products are sold in highly competitive markets. Some of our competitors, especially in our industrial and medical markets, are larger, more diversified and have greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. Our sales and operating margins will be negatively impacted if our competitors: •develop products that are superior to our products,•develop products of comparable quality and performance that are more competitively priced than our products,•develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, or•adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements.We believe that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, timeliness of delivery, effectiveness of the distribution organization and quality of support after the sale. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. If we do not maintain sufficient resources to make these investments or are not successful in maintaining our competitive position, our operations and financial performance will suffer.We depend heavily on government contracts that may not be fully funded or may be terminated, and the failure to receive funding or the termination of one or more of these contracts could reduce our sales and increase our costs. Sales to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. In 2012, sales under U.S. Government contracts represented 30% of our total sales, primarily within Aircraft Controls, Space and Defense Controls and Components. Sales to foreign governments represented 9% of our total sales. Government programs can be structured into a series of individual contracts and funding under those contracts is generally subject to annual congressional appropriations which are subject to change. Also outlined in the 2011 Budget Control Act, starting in calendar year 2013, are additional reductions to defense spending (or Sequestration) of approximately $500 billion over the next decade. These uniform cuts could have ramifications for the aerospace and defense market. As currently written in the Budget Control Act, sequestration could materially adversely impact our sales, operating profit and our cash flow. We have resources applied to specific government contracts and if any of those contracts are rescheduled or terminated, we may incur substantial costs redeploying those resources.We make estimates in accounting for long-term contracts, and changes in these estimates may have significant impacts on our earnings. We have long-term contracts with some of our customers. These contracts are predominantly within Aircraft Controls and Space and Defense Controls. Revenue representing 32% of 2012 sales was accounted for using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting. Under this method, we recognize revenue as work progresses toward completion as determined by the ratio of cumulative costs incurred to date to estimated total contract costs at completion, multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative revenue recognized in prior periods.9Changes in these required estimates could have a material effect on sales and profits. Any adjustments are recognized in the period in which the change becomes known using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting. For contracts with anticipated losses at completion, we establish a provision for the entire amount of the estimated remaining loss and charge it against income in the period in which the loss becomes known. Amounts representing performance incentives, penalties, contract claims or change orders are considered in estimating revenues, costs and profits when they can be reliably estimated and realization is considered probable.We enter into fixed-price contracts, which could subject us to losses if we have cost overruns. In 2012, fixed-price contracts represented 87% of our sales that were accounted for using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting. On fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the scope of work specified in the contract for a predetermined price. Depending on the fixed price negotiated, these contracts may provide us with an opportunity to achieve higher profits based on the relationship between our total contract costs and the contract's fixed price. However, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to incur a loss on the contract, which could reduce our net earnings. Loss reserves are most commonly associated with fixed-price contracts that involve the design and development of new and unique controls or control systems to meet the customer's specifications.If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract or our hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. Failure by our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay or failure in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations to our customers.Contracting on government programs is subject to significant regulation, including rules related to bidding, billing and accounting kickbacks and false claims, and any non-compliance could subject us to fines and penalties or possible debarment. Like all government contractors, we are subject to risks associated with this contracting. These risks include the potential for substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by U.S. and foreign government agencies and authorities. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could harm our business reputation. It could also result in our progress payments being withheld or our suspension or debarment from future government contracts.The loss of Boeing as a customer or a significant reduction in sales to Boeing could adversely impact our operating results. We provide Boeing with controls for both military and commercial applications, which, in total, were 11% of our 2012 sales. Sales to Boeing's commercial airplane group are generally made under a long-term supply agreement through 2021 for the Boeing 787 and through 2013 for other commercial airplanes. The loss of Boeing as a customer or a significant reduction in sales to Boeing could reduce our sales and earnings.10Our new product research and development efforts may not be successful which could reduce our sales and earnings. Technologies related to our products have undergone, and in the future may undergo, significant changes. We have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, expenses associated with research and development activities and the introduction of new products in order to succeed in the future. Our technology has been developed through customer-funded and internally funded research and development and through business acquisitions. If we fail to predict customers' preferences or fail to provide viable technological solutions, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the acceptance of new products or product enhancements. The research and development expenses we incur may exceed our cost estimates and new products we develop may not generate sales sufficient to offset our costs. Additionally, our competitors may develop technologies and products that have more competitive advantages than ours and render our technology obsolete or uncompetitive. Our inability to adequately enforce and protect our intellectual property or defend against assertions of infringement could prevent or restrict our ability to compete. We rely on patents, trademarks and proprietary knowledge and technology, both internally developed and acquired, in order to maintain a competitive advantage. Our inability to defend against the unauthorized use of these rights and assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against claims of infringement. This litigation could result in significant costs and divert our management's focus away from operations.Our business operations may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions or intrusion. We are dependent on various information technologies throughout our company to administer, store and support multiple business activities. Disruptions or cybersecurity attacks, such as unauthorized access, malicious software and other violations may lead to exposure of proprietary and confidential information as well as potential data corruption. Any intrusion may cause operational stoppages, diminished competitive advantages through reputational damages and increased operational costs. Our indebtedness and restrictive covenants under our credit facilities could limit our operational and financial flexibility. We have incurred significant indebtedness, and may in the future incur additional debt for acquisitions, operations, research and development and capital expenditures. Our ability to make interest and scheduled principal payments and meet restrictive covenants could be adversely impacted by changes in the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating or outlook. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase and limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, react to market conditions and meet operational and capital needs, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage. Significant changes in discount rates, rates of return on pension assets, mortality tables and other factors could adversely affect our earnings and equity and increase our pension funding requirements. Pension obligations and the related costs are determined using actual results and actuarial valuations that involve several assumptions. The most critical assumptions are the discount rate, the long-term expected return on assets and mortality. Other assumptions include salary increases and retirement age. Some of these assumptions, such as the discount rate and return on pension assets, are reflective of economic conditions and largely out of our control. Positive or negative changes in these assumptions could adversely affect our earnings, equity and funding requirements.A write-off of all or part of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our operating results and net worth. Goodwill and other intangible assets are a substantial portion of our assets. At September 29, 2012, goodwill was $763 million and other intangible assets were $212 million of our total assets of $3.1 billion. Our goodwill and other intangible assets may increase in the future since our strategy includes growing through acquisitions. We may have to write off all or part of our goodwill or other intangible assets if their value becomes impaired. Although this write-off would be a non-cash charge, it could reduce our earnings and net worth significantly. Among other adverse impacts, this could result in our inability to refinance or renegotiate the terms of our bank indebtedness.11Our sales and earnings growth may be affected if we cannot identify, acquire or integrate strategic acquisitions. Acquisitions are a key part of our growth strategy. Our historical growth has depended, and our future growth is likely to depend, in part, on our ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquired businesses. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities, both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. Growth by acquisition involves risk that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In pursuing acquisition opportunities or integrating acquired businesses, management's time and attention may be diverted from our core business. We may not know the potential exposure to unanticipated liabilities. Additionally, the expected benefits or synergies of an acquisition might not be fully realized, integrating operations and personnel may be slowed as well as key employees, suppliers or customers of the acquired business may depart. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to political and currency risks and adverse changes in local legal and regulatory environments. We have significant manufacturing and sales operations in foreign countries. In addition, our domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. In 2012, 45% of our net sales was to customers outside of the United States. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currencies and by the translation of the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries from local currencies into U.S. dollars. We expect international operations and export sales to continue to contribute to our earnings for the foreseeable future. Both the sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside of the United States. Such risks include the possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations, changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements, and political or economic reprioritization, insurrection, civil disturbance or war.Unforeseen exposure to additional income tax liabilities may affect our operating results. Our distribution of taxable income is subject to domestic and, as a result of our significant manufacturing and sales presence in foreign countries, foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate and earnings may be affected by shifts in our mix of earnings in countries with varying statutory tax rates, changes in reinvested foreign earnings, alterations to tax regulations or interpretations and outcomes of any audits performed on previous tax returns. Government regulations could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States and otherwise adversely affect our business. In 2012, approximately 12% of our sales were subject to compliance with the United States export regulations. Our failure to obtain, or fully adhere to the limitations contained in, the requisite licenses, meet registration standards or comply with other government export regulations would hinder our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products outside the United States. Compliance with these government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and operating costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In order to sell our products in European Union countries, we must satisfy certain technical requirements. If we are unable to comply with those requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in Europe would be restricted. Doing business internationally also subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, foreign corrupt practices and anti-boycott provisions. Our failure, or by an authorized agent or representative that is attributable to us, to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in financial penalties or suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which would have a material adverse effect on us.The failure or misuse of our products may damage our reputation, necessitate a product recall or result in claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, thereby requiring us to pay significant damages. Defects in the design and manufacture of our products may necessitate a product recall. We include complex system designs and components in our products that could contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products. If any of our products are defective, we could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims and face actions by regulatory bodies and government authorities. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products and cause us to withdraw from certain markets. We are also exposed to product liability claims. Many of our products are used in applications where their failure or misuse could result in significant property loss and serious personal injury or death. We carry product liability insurance consistent with industry norms. However, these insurance coverages may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any potential claim. A product recall or a product liability claim not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.12Future terror attacks, war, natural disasters or other catastrophic events beyond our control could negatively impact our business. Terror attacks, war or other civil disturbances, natural disasters and other catastrophic events could lead to economic instability and decreases in demand for commercial products, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks worldwide have caused instability from time to time in global financial markets and the aviation industry. In 2012, 17% of our net sales was in the commercial aircraft market. Our facilities are located throughout the world. They could be subject to damage from fire, flood, earthquake or other natural or man-made disasters. Although we carry third party property insurance covering these and other risks, our inability to meet customers' schedules as a result of a catastrophe may result in a loss of customers or significant additional costs, such as penalty claims under customer contracts. Our operations are subject to environmental laws, and complying with those laws may cause us to incur significant costs. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous stringent environmental laws and regulations. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations, future changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations of them, or changes in the nature of our operations may require us to make significant capital expenditures to ensure compliance. We have been and are currently involved in environmental remediation activities, the cost of which may become significant depending on the discovery of additional environmental exposures at sites that we currently own or operate and at sites that we formerly owned or operated, or at sites to which we have sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, recycling or disposal.We are involved in various legal proceedings, the outcome of which may be unfavorable to us. Our business may be adversely impacted by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. We estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable given the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingencies recorded as liabilities.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.13