Item 1A. Risk Factors. The markets we serve are cyclical and sensitive to domestic and foreign economic conditions and events, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The markets we serve are sensitive to fluctuations in general business cycles and domestic and foreign economic conditions and events. For example, demand for our industrial controls products is dependent upon several factors, including capital investment, product innovations, economic growth, cost-reduction efforts and technology upgrades. In addition, the commercial airline industry is highly cyclical and sensitive to fuel price increases, labor disputes and economic conditions. These factors could result in a reduction in the amount of air travel. A reduction in air travel could reduce orders for new aircraft for which we supply flight controls and for spare parts and services and reduce our sales. A reduction in air travel may also result in our commercial airline customers being unable to pay our invoices on a timely basis or at all. We depend heavily on government contracts that may not be fully funded or may be terminated, and the failure to receive funding or the termination of one or more of these contracts could reduce our sales and increase our costs. Sales to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. In 2006, sales under U.S. Government contracts represented 33% of our total sales, primarily within Aircraft Controls, Space and Defense Controls and Components. Sales to foreign governments represented 9% of our total sales. We expect that the percentage of our revenues from government contracts will continue to be substantial in the future. Government programs can be structured into a series of individual contracts. The funding of these programs is generally subject to annual congressional appropriations, and congressional priorities are subject to change. In addition, government expenditures for defense programs may decline or these defense programs may be terminated. A decline in government expenditures may result in a reduction in the volume of contracts awarded to us. We may have resources applied to specific government contracts and, if any of those contracts were terminated, we may incur substantial costs redeploying these resources. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract or our hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. Failure by our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. We make estimates in accounting for long-term contracts, and changes in these estimates may have significant impacts on our earnings. We have long-term contracts with some of our customers. These contracts are predominantly within Aircraft Controls and Space and Defense Controls. Revenue representing 34% of 2006 sales was accounted for using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position 81-1, “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts.” We recognize revenue on contracts using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting as work progresses toward completion as determined by the ratio of cumulative costs incurred to date to estimated total contract costs at completion, multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative revenue recognized in prior periods. Changes in estimates affecting sales, costs and profits are recognized in the period in which the change becomes known using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting, resulting in the cumulative effect of changes reflected in the period. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. For contracts with anticipated losses at completion, we establish a provision for the entire amount of the estimated remaining loss and charge it against income in the period in which the loss becomes known. Amounts representing performance incentives, penalties, contract claims or change orders are considered in estimating revenues, costs and profits when they can be reliably estimated and realization is considered probable. 38 Table of Contents We enter into fixed-price contracts, which could subject us to losses if we have cost overruns. For the year ended September 30, 2006, fixed-price contracts represented 79% of our sales that were accounted for using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting. On fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the scope of work specified in the contract for a predetermined price. Depending on the fixed price negotiated, these contracts may provide us with an opportunity to achieve higher profits based on the relationship between our total contract costs and the contract’s fixed price. However, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to incur a loss on the contract, which could reduce our net sales and net earnings. Loss reserves are more common on fixed-price contracts that involve the design and development of new and unique controls or control systems to meet the customer’s specifications. Contracting in the defense industry is subject to significant regulation, including rules related to bidding, billing and accounting kickbacks and false claims, and any non-compliance could subject us to fines and penalties or possible debarment. Like all government contractors, we are subject to risks associated with this contracting. These risks include the potential for substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could harm our business reputation. It could also result in our progress payments being withheld or our suspension or debarment from future government contracts. If we are unable to adapt to technological change, demand for our products may be reduced. The technologies related to our products have undergone, and in the future may undergo, significant changes. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through customer-funded and internally funded research and development and through business acquisitions. In addition, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we develop or that render our technology and products obsolete or uncompetitive. Furthermore, our products could become unmarketable if new industry standards emerge. We may have to modify our products significantly in the future to remain competitive, and new products we introduce may not be accepted by our customers. Our new product and research and development efforts may not be successful, which would result in a reduction in our sales and earnings. In the past, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, expenses associated with research and development activities and the introduction of new products. For instance, we are currently incurring substantial development costs in connection with our work on the 787. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development of new products or product enhancements, and new products or product enhancements may not be accepted by our customers. In addition, the research and development expenses we incur may exceed our cost estimates, and new products we develop may not generate sales sufficient to offset our costs. If any of these events occur, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. The loss of Boeing or Lockheed Martin as a customer or a significant reduction in sales to either company would reduce our sales and earnings. We provide Boeing with controls for both military and commercial applications, which, in total, were 9% of our 2006 sales. Sales to Boeing’s commercial airplane group were 4% of 2006 sales. These commercial sales are generally made under a long-term supply agreement through 2012. Sales to Lockheed Martin were 9% of our 2006 sales. The loss of Boeing or Lockheed Martin as a customer or a significant reduction in sales to either company would significantly reduce our sales and earnings. We operate in highly competitive markets with competitors who may have greater resources than we possess, which could reduce the volume of products we can sell and our operating margins. Many of our products are sold in highly competitive markets. Some of our competitors, especially in our industrial markets, are larger, more diversified corporations and have greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. Our operations and financial performance will be negatively impacted if our competitors: • develop products that are superior to our products; • develop products that are more competitively priced than our products; • develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services; or • adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. 39 Table of Contents We believe that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of support after the sale, timeliness of delivery and effectiveness of the distribution organization. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. If we do not maintain sufficient resources to make these investments or are not successful in maintaining our competitive position, our operations and financial performance will suffer. Significant changes in discount rates, rates of return on pension assets, mortality tables and other factors could affect our future earnings, equity and pension funding requirements. Pension obligations and the related costs are determined using actuarial valuations that involve several assumptions. Our funding requirements are also based on these assumptions. The most critical assumptions are the discount rate, the long-term expected return on assets and mortality. Other assumptions include salary increases and retirement age. Some of these assumptions, such as the discount rate and return on pension assets, are largely outside of our control. Changes in these assumptions could affect our future earnings, equity and funding requirements. A write-off of all or part of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our operating results and net worth and cause us to violate covenants in our bank credit facility. Goodwill and other intangible assets are a substantial portion of our assets. At September 30, 2006, goodwill was $451 million and other intangible assets were $50 million of our total assets of $1.6 billion. Our goodwill may increase in the future since our strategy includes growing through acquisitions. We may have to write off all or part of our goodwill or other intangible assets if their value becomes impaired. Although this write-off would be a non-cash charge, it could reduce our earnings and net worth significantly. A write-off of goodwill or other intangible assets could also cause us to violate covenants in our bank credit facility that require a minimum level of net worth. This could result in our being unable to borrow under our bank credit facility or being obliged to refinance or renegotiate the terms of our bank indebtedness. Our sales and earnings growth may be reduced if we cannot implement our acquisition strategy. Acquisitions are a key part of our growth strategy. Our historical growth has depended, and our future growth is likely to depend, in large part, on our ability to implement successfully our acquisition strategy, and the successful integration of acquired businesses into our existing operations. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities in accordance with our acquisition strategy, both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. If we are unable to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets, our sales and earnings growth would be reduced. We may incur losses and liabilities as a result of our acquisition strategy. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results, including: • diversion of management time and attention from our core business; • the potential exposure to unanticipated liabilities; • the potential that expected benefits or synergies are not realized and that operating costs increase; • the risks associated with incurring additional acquisition indebtedness, including that additional indebtedness could limit our cash flow availability for operations and our flexibility; • difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; • the potential impairment of a significant amount of intangible assets; and • the potential loss of key employees, suppliers or customers of acquired businesses. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, could negatively impact our financial performance if it does not perform as planned, does not increase earnings, or does not prove otherwise to be beneficial to us. Our future growth and continued success is dependent on our key personnel. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team and technical personnel. The loss of members of our management team could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industries is intense, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend on our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. 40 Table of Contents Future terror attacks, war, or other civil disturbances could negatively impact our business. Continued terror attacks, war or other disturbances could lead to further economic instability and decreases in demand for commercial products, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks worldwide have caused instability from time to time in global financial markets and the aviation industry. In 2006, 15% of our net sales was related to commercial aircraft. The long-term effects of terrorist attacks on us are unknown. These attacks and the U.S. Government’s continued efforts against terrorist organizations may lead to additional armed hostilities or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to political risks and adverse changes in local legal, tax and regulatory schemes. In 2006, 39% of our consolidated revenue was from customers outside of North America. We expect international operations and export sales to continue to contribute to our earnings for the foreseeable future. Both the sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside of the United States. Such risks include, without limitation, the following: • the possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; • partial or total expropriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to significant taxation policies, laws or regulations; • changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements; • political or economic instability, insurrection, civil disturbance or war; and • potential negative consequences from the requirements of partial local ownership of operations in certain countries. Government regulations could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States. In 2006, 12% of our sales were subject to compliance with the United States Export Administration regulations. Our failure to obtain the requisite licenses, meet registration standards or comply with other government export regulations would hinder our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products outside the United States. Compliance with the government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In order to sell our products in European Union countries, we must satisfy certain technical requirements. If we are unable to comply with those requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in Europe would be restricted. Our facilities could be damaged by catastrophes which could reduce our production capacity and result in a loss of customers. We conduct our operations in facilities located throughout the world. Any of these facilities could be damaged by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunication and information systems failure or similar events. Our facilities in Southern California, Japan and the Philippines are particularly susceptible to earthquakes. These facilities accounted for 22% of our manufacturing, assembly and test capacity in 2006. Although we carry property insurance, including earthquake insurance and business interruption insurance, our inability to meet customers’ schedules as a result of a catastrophe may result in a loss of customers or significant additional costs such as penalty claims under customer contracts. The failure of our products may damage our reputation, necessitate a product recall or result in claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, thereby requiring us to pay significant damages. Defects in the design and manufacture of our products may necessitate a product recall. We include complex system design and components in our products that could contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products. If any of our products are defective, we could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. We are also exposed to product liability claims. Our products are used in applications where their failure is likely to result in significant property loss and serious personal injury or death. We carry aircraft and non-aircraft product liability insurance consistent with industry norms. However, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any potential claim. A product recall or a product liability claim not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Our international operations pose currency and other risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. We have significant manufacturing and sales operations in foreign countries. In addition, our domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currencies and by the translation of the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries from local currencies into U.S. dollars. The translation of our sales in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, British pound and Japanese yen, to the U.S. dollar had a $9 million negative impact on sales for 2006 using average exchange rates for 2006 compared to average exchange rates for 2005 and a $12 million positive impact on sales for 2005 using average exchange rates for 2005 compared to average exchange rates for 2004. Our operations are subject to environmental laws, and the cost of compliance with those laws may cause us to incur significant costs. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous stringent environmental laws and regulations. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations, future changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations of them, or changes in the nature of our operations may require us to make significant capital expenditures to ensure compliance. We have been and are currently involved in environmental remediation activities, the cost of which may become significant depending on the discovery of additional environmental exposures at sites that we currently own or operate and at sites that we formerly owned or operated, or at sites to which we have sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, recycling or disposal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. On March 3, 2006, we received a letter from the staff of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance as part of their review of our Form 10-K filed on December 7, 2005. One of the comments related to the determination of our reportable segments, operating segments and reporting units. We responded to this letter, which has been followed by a series of staff comments and our responses to those comments. We believe that we have properly identified our operating segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” Our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews the results of our operating segments to make decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment, and does not regularly review results of other components to make such allocations and assessments. We also believe that we have properly identified and disclosed our reportable segments, which are the same as our operating segments since the aggregation criteria have not been met. The staff’s comments on this matter have not yet been resolved. We expect further correspondence with the staff on the determination of our reporting units in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Since a reporting unit is either an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, the conclusion regarding our reporting units cannot be completely resolved until the operating segment matter is resolved. 42 Table of Contents 