ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company faces a variety of risks inherent in general business and in the restaurant industry specifically, including operational, legal, regulatory and product risks. Certain significant factors that could adversely affect the operations and results of the Company are discussed below. Other risk factors that the Company cannot anticipate may develop, including risk factors that the Company does not currently consider to be significant. - Due to the Company’s reliance on poultry in its menu items, an outbreak of the avian influenza in the United States could cause a shortage of chicken or could cause unreasonable panic in the 4 Table of Contents MORGAN’S FOODS, INC. PART I (cont’d) public related to the consumption of chicken products, either of which would likely have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business. - The Company faces significant image enhancement and relocation requirements in future fiscal years as described under “Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments” in Part II of this report. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sale/leaseback or debt financing on terms which it finds reasonably acceptable to fund these obligations when due. Lack of acceptable financing could have a material adverse affect on the operations of the Company, including the loss of restaurants subject to enhancement or relocation requirements under applicable franchise agreements. - The food supply in general is subject to the accidental or intentional introduction of contaminants which can cause illness or death in humans. To the extent that the Company’s food supplies become impacted by any of these contaminants, the Company’s revenue could be significantly reduced and the Company could be subjected to related liability claims. - The Company is involved in various commercial activities in the operation of its restaurants. These activities may generate the potential for legal claims against the Company. While many of these risks are covered by insurance, the costs of litigating large claims and any potential resulting uninsured liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. - In operating its restaurants, the Company is the owner of many real estate parcels. Environmental problems at any of these sites could cause significant costs and liabilities for the Company. - The Company is exposed to numerous cost pressures in the operation of its restaurants including food, fuel and minimum wage increases. To the extent that the business environment prohibits the Company from passing on these increased costs in its selling prices, there could be a material negative impact on the results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 