ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company faces a variety of risks inherent in general business and in the restaurant industry specifically, including operational, legal, regulatory and product risks. Certain significant factors that could adversely affect the operations and results of the Company are discussed below. Other risk factors that the Company cannot anticipate may develop, including risk factors that the Company does not currently consider to be significant. Image Enhancement and Capital Expenditure Requirements The Company faces significant image enhancement and relocation requirements in future fiscal years as described under “Required Image Enhancements” in Part II of this report. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sale/leaseback or debt financing on terms which it finds reasonably acceptable to fund these obligations when due. Lack of acceptable financing could have a material adverse affect on the operations of the Company, including the loss of restaurants subject to enhancement or relocation requirements under applicable franchise agreements. Product and Marketing Success of Franchisors The Company relies heavily on the success of its franchisors in developing products and marketing programs which support its revenues. Failure of the franchisors to provide appropriate support could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s financial performance. Failure to Meet Loan Covenants If the Company does not meet the periodic requirements of its loan covenants and is unable to obtain waivers of these deficiencies, its lenders could take actions which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Contamination of the Food Supply The food supply in general is subject to the accidental or intentional introduction of contaminants which can cause illness or death in humans. To the extent that the Company’s food supplies become impacted by any of these contaminants, the Company’s revenue could be significantly reduced and the Company could be subjected to related liability claims. Litigation The Company is involved in various commercial activities in the operation of its restaurants. These activities may generate the potential for legal claims against the Company. While many of these risks are covered by insurance, the costs of litigating large claims and any potential resulting uninsured liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Environmental Liabilities In operating its restaurants, the Company is the owner of many real estate parcels. Environmental problems at any of these sites could cause significant costs and liabilities for the Company. Food and Labor Cost Increases The Company is exposed to numerous cost pressures in the operation of its restaurants including food, fuel and minimum wage increases. To the extent that the business environment prohibits the Company from passing on these increased costs in its selling prices, there could be a material negative impact on the results of operations. 4 Table of Contents Outbreak of Avian Flu or Mad Cow Disease Due to the Company’s reliance on poultry in its menu items, an outbreak of the Avian Flu in the United States could cause a shortage of chicken or could cause unreasonable panic in the public related to the consumption of chicken products, either of which would likely have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business. To a lesser extent the Company also uses beef in certain of its menu items and the conditions discussed above could apply to an outbreak of Mad Cow disease. Governmental Laws and Regulations The operations of the Company are subject to many federal, state and local regulations governing health, sanitation, workplace safety, public access, wages and benefits among other things. The Company is also subject to various privacy and security regulations. Changes to any of these regulations can have a significant adverse impact on the operations of the Company. Quick Service Restaurant Competition The quick service restaurant industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive and consumers have many choices other than the Company’s restaurants. Changes in consumer tastes or preferences could have a significant adverse impact on the operations of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 