ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this report, before you decide to buy our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business would likely suffer and our results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements contained in this report including those contained in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7. Global economic conditions have created turmoil in the credit and labor markets that could have a significant adverse impact on our operations. Since the start of the recession in December 2007 and through February 2010, payroll employment has fallen by 8.4 million. The current economic conditions have been marked by dramatic shifts in market conditions and unprecedented intervention by governments throughout the world. Although the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted to provide broad-based relief to stimulate economic activity, some economists predict that additional stimulus funds will be needed to prevent a prolonging or a recurrence of the recession. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. Global and national economic uncertainties, as well as unfavorable local and regional economic conditions in the United States and abroad, may cause our clients or prospective clients to defer hiring contingent workers or reduce spending on the Human Capital Management Services and staffing services that we provide. When economic activity slows down, customers often reduce their use of contingent staff before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees resulting in decreased demand for contingent workers. Some of our clients have reduced their workforces, including contingent labor. In addition, since employees are also reluctant to risk changing employers, there are fewer openings available and therefore reduced activity in permanent placements as well. Furthermore, the current economic environment may cause some of the vendors we manage as part of our Human Capital Management Services and RightSourcing Services programs to reduce or discontinue operations, which may adversely affect our ability to manage these programs. In addition, reduced demand for our services could increase price competition. If, as a result of adverse economic conditions, one or more of our clients enter bankruptcy or liquidate their operations, our revenues and accounts 8 receivable could be adversely affected. If the current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, they could also have a significant adverse impact on our operations by: · creating uncertainty in the business environment, which uncertainty would act as a disincentive for businesses to expand their operations; · decreasing our customers demand for contingent staff in our Staff Augmentation segment and management and payrolling services in our Human Capital Management Services segment; · adversely affecting our customers’ ability to obtain credit to fund their operations, which in turn would affect their ability to timely make payment on our invoices; and · creating greater risks to us in providing Financial Outsourcing Services to our customers as well as increasing our costs of providing funding to these customers. Competition in our industry could reduce our sales or profitability. We face significant competition in the markets we serve and there are few barriers to entry for new competitors. The competition among staffing services companies is intense. We compete for potential clients with providers of outsourcing services, vendor managed services, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, temporary personnel agencies, search companies and other providers of staffing services. Some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, technology and personnel resources than we do and could offer increased competition. Some of our competitors may offer better pricing or superior features in their products and services. In addition, competitors offering different products and services could merge or form partnerships in order to provide a broader range of offerings. Our clients’ own human resources departments may be competitors to the extent they begin to handle, in house, the operations we perform. In addition, the growth in demand for vendor managed services has put heightened pressure on the margins of staffing services providers, including us. Some of our contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive proposals which can be periodically re-bid by the client. There can be no assurance that existing contracts, including with governmental agencies, will be renewed on satisfactory terms or that additional or replacement contracts will be those awarded to us. In the current economic climate, we expect our competitors to bid more aggressively, which could result in our loss of contracts or a reduction in margins in cases in which we seek to retain contracts by lowering our bids. We may not be able to retain clients or market share in the future, and, in light of competitive pressures, we may not be able to remain profitable. Potential increase in costs related to being a public company. The Company may incur substantial additional costs related to compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These additional costs relate to higher documentary and administrative costs and consulting, audit and legal fees we will incur, as well as for the cost of the audit of our internal control over financial reporting that will be required, under current SEC regulations for our 2010 fiscal year. Significant increases in payroll-related costs could adversely affect our business. We are required to pay a number of federal, state, local and foreign payroll and related costs, including federal (FUTA) and state (SUTA) unemployment taxes, workers compensation benefits, healthcare benefits, FICA (social security), and Medicare, among others, for our employees and personnel. Significant increases in the effective rates of any payroll-related costs likely would have a material adverse effect upon us. We generally seek to increase fees charged to our clients to cover increases in healthcare, unemployment and other direct costs of services, but our ability to pass these costs to our clients has diminished in recent years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our clients in a 9 timely manner and in a sufficient amount if these expenses continue to rise. Our inability to increase our fees or adapt to future regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The profitability of our engagements with clients may not meet our expectations. Unexpected costs or delays in client purchases of our services could make our client engagements less profitable than anticipated. When making proposals for engagements, we estimate the costs and potential revenue associated with those engagements when determining the pricing. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could reduce our profit margin. For example, our clients may not fully cooperate with us so as to enable us to implement our services in a cost-effective manner, or the nature of future engagements may require that we incur significant costs in preparation of the engagement before we generate revenues under the terms of the engagement. Our agreements with our clients, as well as competition in our target markets, may prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our clients. We face significant employment liability risk. We employ and place people in the workplaces of other businesses. An inherent risk of such activity includes possible claims of errors and omissions, misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, discrimination and harassment, employment of persons submitting false credentials, theft of client property, other criminal activity, torts or other claims. Our contracts with our clients often require that we indemnify them against these kinds of losses, in some cases without limitation as to the amount or type of damages. We have policies and guidelines in place to reduce our exposure to risks for these potential losses. However, failure of any employee or personnel to follow these policies and guidelines may result in: negative publicity; injunctive relief; the payment by us of monetary damages or fines; or other material adverse effects upon our business. Moreover, we could be held responsible for the actions at a workplace of persons not under our immediate control. For example, our contracts with vendor management services customers frequently require that we confirm that the suppliers of personnel or like service providers maintain insurance coverage as required by the customer, and our failure to require these providers to maintain the required insurance could result in liability to us for any losses our customers incur as a result of this failure. To reduce our exposure, we maintain general liability insurance, property insurance, automobile insurance, fidelity insurance, errors and omissions insurance, professional liability insurance, fiduciary insurance and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for domestic and foreign operations as management deems appropriate and prudent. However, we do not maintain employer practices insurance due to its high cost and limited coverage, which means we are not insured for many employment claims, such as harassment and discrimination claims. We may in some cases be held responsible for defending a client against claims raised by one of our billable employees (or former billable employees) alleging wrongful acts by the client’s employee. Further, due to the nature of our assignments, in particular, access to client information systems and confidential information, and the potential liability with respect thereto, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts adequate to cover any such liability on acceptable terms. Our healthcare staffing services exposes us to potential malpractice claims, a growing area of litigation. Furthermore, we are generally self-insured with respect to workers compensation claims, but maintain excess workers compensation coverage to limit our exposure for amounts over $3.5 million. We maintain reserves for uninsured risks and other potential liabilities, but we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure. In addition, we face various other employment-related risks not covered by insurance, such as wage and hour laws and employment tax responsibility. Any of these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We operate in a complex regulatory environment and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. The services we provide are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, benefits administration, state unemployment and workers compensation regulations, 10 employment practices and data privacy both in the United States and abroad. In particular, we could also be impacted by changes in reimbursement regulations by states or the federal government which make it difficult for our healthcare clients to pay us or require us to lower our rates. Because our services are provided throughout the United States and in foreign countries, we must perform our services in compliance with the complex legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret and may change over time. The addition of new services may subject us to additional laws and regulations from time to time. Violation of laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties or to legal liability, constitute a breach of our client contracts and impair our ability to do business in various jurisdictions or according to our established processes. If our reputation suffers as a result of any failure to comply with applicable laws, our ability to maintain our clients and increase our client base will be weakened. We may be subject to lawsuits and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation involving employment practices and workplace conditions is prevalent in the United States, including class actions against employers for allegedly failing to comply with the many federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect the health and safety of workers or to properly classify workers for purposes of their entitlement to overtime or benefits. We are currently subject to claims and lawsuits, and we expect to be subject to additional claims and lawsuits in the future. Litigation is often costly, unpredictable and time consuming to resolve, and unfavorable results in any lawsuit could potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel. We depend upon the abilities of our staff to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and professional personnel, who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. We expect continued competition for individuals with proven technical or professional skills for the foreseeable future. If qualified personnel are not available to us in sufficient numbers and upon economic terms acceptable to us, it could have a material adverse affect on our business. If we cannot obtain new clients or increase sales to our existing clients, our business will not expand and our revenues will not increase. Our future success not only depends on our ability to maintain our current relationships with existing clients, but also to acquire new client relationships and increase sales to our existing clients. Our strategies to reach new clients and to expand the range of services purchased by our existing clients may not succeed. In the event of bankruptcy of any of our clients, we may be unable to collect our fees, including the recovery of the amount of any wages we have paid to employees for work performed for these clients. Because the amount of business we do with large clients each month can be substantial, these clients owe us a significant portion of our total receivables at any one time. In the event one of those clients would enter bankruptcy or becomes unable to pay its obligations, we may be unable to collect from that client, and our bad debt expense and revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, with respect to our professional payrolling and staffing services, we pay for the services rendered by those personnel prior to collecting those amounts from our clients. Therefore, we are at risk for the entire amount of those wages in addition to our fees. 11 If we fail to develop new services, or enhance our existing services, to meet the needs of our existing and future clients, our sales may decline. To satisfy increasingly sophisticated client requirements and achieve market acceptance, we must enhance and improve our existing services, and we must also continue to introduce new services. Any new services that we offer may not be introduced in a timely manner, and they may not achieve sufficient market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop new services, or enhance our existing services, our sales may decline, and our profitability will decrease. Our business will be negatively affected if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology or if growth in the use of technology in business is not as rapid as in the past. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology services that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We have developed and must continually update and improve our proprietary web-enabled WAND system, which provides an end-to-end solution for the engagement, management and tracking of the contingent workforce. We use WAND for Human Capital Management Services through PrO Unlimited, but are reliant on a third party software for our RightSourcing Services program. In addition to the RightSourcing Service program, we are reliant on third party vendors in updating and improving other technologies on which our business is dependent. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to the continuing developments in technology, industry standards and client preferences on a timely and cost-effective basis, and our ideas, or those of our software vendors, may not be accepted in the marketplace. In addition, technologies developed by our competitors may make our service offerings, whether utilizing WAND or third party software, noncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could significantly reduce our ability to obtain new client engagements or to retain existing client engagements. Our business is also dependent, in part, upon continued growth in the use of technology in business by our clients and prospective clients and their employees, and our ability to deliver the efficiencies and convenience afforded by technology. If growth in the use of technology does not continue, demand for our services may decrease. Use of new technology for commerce generally requires understanding and acceptance of a new way of conducting business and exchanging information. Companies that have already invested substantial resources in traditional means of conducting commerce and exchanging information may be particularly reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach that would not utilize their existing personnel and infrastructure. The effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, we could lose market share. We also could lose market share if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies than we offer or develop. If our clients or third parties are not satisfied with our services, we may face damage to our professional reputation or legal liability. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality services. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Our services may contain defects or errors, which could hurt our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial, and would reduce our profitability. Moreover, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability or loss of client relationships. If the reputation of our services declines, our ability to maintain our clients and increase our client base will be weakened. Clients are increasingly filing legal claims against professional service providers, including those in the human resources outsourcing and consulting industries. Clients and third parties who are dissatisfied with our consulting services or who claim to suffer damages caused by our services may bring lawsuits against us. 12 Defending lawsuits arising out of any of our services could require substantial amounts of management attention, which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition to client liability, governmental authorities may impose penalties with respect to our errors or omissions and may preclude us from doing business in some jurisdictions. In addition to the risks of liability exposure and increased costs of defense and insurance premiums, claims arising from our professional services may produce publicity that could hurt our reputation and business. Our financial results could be harmed if we are required to expend significant financial and other resources to protect our intellectual property from infringement by third parties. Our proprietary technology is an important part of our success, particularly in the Human Capital Management Services segment. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and contractual and licensing provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have registered trademarks for some of our products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, documentation, client data and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. We do not have any patents or patent pending with respect to any of our products or services, including our WAND technology. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection. As we expand our business globally, we also face increasing costs in copyrighting proprietary materials and registering trademarks in foreign countries. In these cases, we face the risk that we will not receive copyright protection, or that local copyright laws will not be enforced, and the risk that we will be unable to protect (or even use) our U.S. registered or common law trademarks in some countries. In addition, others may design around our technology or develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary technology, or equivalent products may be marketed in competition with our products, which would substantially reduce the value of our proprietary rights. Furthermore, confidentiality agreements between us and our employees or any license agreements with our clients may not provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of it. Accordingly, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and we may not be able to protect our proprietary software in the United States or abroad against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could significantly harm our business. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could reduce our revenues. Any significant failure or disruption in our computing, software and communications infrastructure could harm our reputation, result in a loss of clients, and disrupt our business. Our computing, software and communications infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Many of our clients, particularly those in the Human Capital Management Services segment, typically access our services through a standard web browser. Our clients depend on us for fast and reliable access to our applications. We rely on the expertise of our software development teams for the continued performance of our applications. We may experience serious disruptions in our computing, software and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause these types of disruptions include: · human error; · physical or electronic security breaches; · telecommunications outages from third-party providers; · computer viruses; · acts of terrorism or sabotage; · fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; and · power loss. 13 Although we back up data stored on our systems at least daily, our infrastructure does not currently include mirroring of data storage and production capacity in more than one geographically distinct location. As a result, in the event of a physical disaster, or a significant failure of our computing infrastructure, client data from recent transactions may be permanently lost. If our clients experience service interruptions or the loss or theft of client data, we may be subject to financial penalties, financial liability or client losses. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. Security breaches that result in the release of proprietary data of clients could impair our reputation and our revenue. Our business involves the use, storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information. Any security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to client data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. Restrictions and covenants under our bank credit facility and other financing agreements limit our ability to take actions and impose consequences in the event of a compliance failure. Our $95.0 million Revolving Credit and Security Agreement (the “PNC Credit Facility”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as a lender and administrative agent (“PNC”), imposes various restrictions on our activities without the consent of the lenders, including: · prohibiting us from incurring indebtedness or granting security interests in our assets except in accordance with the covenants and conditions in the PNC Credit Facility; · prohibiting us from selling or disposing of our assets except in accordance with the covenants and conditions in the PNC Credit Facility; · prohibiting fundamental changes such as consolidations, mergers and sales and transfer of assets, and limiting our ability or any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries to grant liens upon our property or assets; · requiring us to meet certain net worth, debt service coverage and other financial requirements; and · entering into transactions with affiliates other than in accordance with the indenture. These covenants and conditions affect our operating flexibility by, among other things, substantially restricting our ability to incur expenses and indebtedness, or make acquisitions, that could be used to grow our business. Our ability to issue shares of our capital stock is also limited. The PNC Credit Facility includes events of default and provides that, upon the occurrence of certain events of default, payment of all amounts payable under the PNC Credit Facility, including the principal amount of, and accrued interest on, the PNC Credit Facility may be accelerated. See “Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7. Our inability to repay or refinance or extend the PNC Credit Facility at its maturity would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The PNC Credit Facility, under which we had $61.0 million in borrowings outstanding at March 7, 2010, matures on November 2, 2012. Our inability to repay, refinance or extend the PNC Credit Facility at its 14 maturity would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We cannot predict whether capital will be available to us with interest rates and on terms acceptable to us, if at all, when the PNC Credit Facility matures. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price for our common stock to decline even if our business is doing well. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are held by persons other than affiliates. In addition, as of the end of fiscal 2009, approximately 21.0 million shares of common stock or equivalent non-voting preferred shares are issuable to a trust in which John C. Fanning, our Chairman and Chief Executive officer, is the beneficiary, and a limited partnership of which Harry V. Maccarrone, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is the general partner and members of Mr. Fanning’s family are limited partners. Subject to some limitations on the holder’s rights, the Company’s Series 2003A Preferred Stock, the Series 2003B Preferred Stock and the Series 2004A Preferred Stock, each of which continue to cumulate dividends, are convertible into these common or non-voting shares at conversion prices ranging from $0.54 to $1.70, which could have a potentially depressing effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. See notes 11 and 18 to our consolidated financial statements. We could be required to write-off additional goodwill in future periods if our future operating results suffer. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually. Significant assumptions used in this analysis include expected future revenue growth rates, operating margins, working capital levels and tax rates, which are based on management’s expectation of future results. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we wrote-off $16.1 million of goodwill in the Staff Augmentation segment, principally due to decreased sales and cash flows during 2009 and to lower projected cash flows in future periods than previously anticipated to occur prior to the recession. We previously had write-offs of goodwill of $96.1 million, excluding $5.9 million relating to discontinued operations, in 2002 and 2003. Unfavorable evaluations in future periods could cause us to write-off additional goodwill. Continuation of current unfavorable economic conditions could heighten the risk of future write-offs, and significant write-offs could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse results of tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities. We are subject to periodic federal, state, local and foreign income tax audits for various tax years. Although we attempt to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit could have a material adverse affect on us. As described under “State Tax Audit” in Item 3 of this report and “Recent Developments” in Item 7 of this report, we recently settled a state tax examination related to certain non-income related business taxes for $2.8 million. Some state regulatory and taxing authorities appear to us to be more aggressive in their positions, suggesting in some cases an effort to stem declines in tax revenues or close state budget shortfalls. Federal regulators may also pursue positions and collections more aggressively to the extent of declining tax revenues. Significant foreign currency fluctuations could affect our operating results and the clients that we service. We conduct our operations in a number of foreign countries and the results of our local operations are reported in the applicable foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. We are subject to exposure for devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which, if we are successful in further growing and developing our foreign operations or these devaluations or fluctuations are significant, could potentially affect our investment in these foreign countries as well as on our cash flow and results of operations, or our willingness to continue operations in countries in which the risk of loss in currency transactions outweighs the potential profit from our these operations. These risks are heightened in the current volatile economic environment, 15 including the recent volatility in the value of the U.S. dollar and other currencies worldwide and instability in the credit markets. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. For example, during 2005, hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused extensive flooding and destruction along the coastal areas of the Gulf of Mexico. While we were not significantly and adversely affected by the impact of these specific disasters, other severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future that could have an effect on our business. The loss of the services of key members of our senior management team or any other key management and operational personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations historically have been, and continue to be, dependent on the efforts of the executive team in our Woodbury headquarters, as well as on the performance and productivity of our key personnel with our PrO Unlimited subsidiary and other subsidiaries and divisions including regional operations executives, branch managing directors and field personnel. John Fanning, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, age 78, has experienced health issues that have caused him to reduce his work load. He has delegated significant day-to-day responsibilities to other officers, principally Harry V. Maccarrone, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Robert Ende, Senior Vice President, Finance, and, as relates to the Company’s PrO Unlimited subsidiary, Andrew Shultz, its President. The loss of key employees, such as those named above who have assumed greater responsibilities, could have an adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients, particularly in the current economic climate. In addition, our ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered by branch managerial personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees to perform these services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s stock price may be volatile and investors may not be able to resell shares they purchase at their purchase price. The stock market has experienced and may in the future experience extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. The Company's stock price has in the past, and could in the future, fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond the Company's control, including: · the relatively low float of the Company's common stock caused, among other reasons, by the holdings of the Company's principal shareholders; · adverse general economic conditions, including withdrawals of investments in the stock markets generally and a tightening of credit available to potential acquirers of business, that result in lower average prices being paid for public company shares and lower valuations being placed on businesses; · other domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to the Company's performance; · the Company's failure to meet the expectations of the investment community; · industry trends and the business success of the Company's customers; · loss of key customers; · fluctuations in the Company's results of operations; and · litigation. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 