Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risk factors discussed below may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks may emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such new risks, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such new risks on our business or the extent to which any risk or combination of risks may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statement. We may fail to reach our Company’s sales and growth goals, which may negatively impact our continued financial and operational success. We establish sales and growth goals each fiscal year based on a strategy of new market development and further penetration of existing markets. We believe the biggest risk to attaining our growth goals is our ability to maintain or increase restaurant sales in existing markets, which is dependent upon factors both within and outside our control. Among other factors, these desired increases are dependent upon consumer spending, the overall state of the economy, our quality of operations, and the effectiveness of our advertising. In an effort to continue moving our brand towards a high quality casual dining restaurant and away from the traditional bar and grill category, we have changed our look and feel, differentiating ourselves with a more contemporary and fresher look. During fiscal 2007 and 2008, we completed remodeling substantially all of our Company-owned restaurants. Many of our franchised restaurants have also been remodeled. While we believe that the changes were necessary for the long-term success of our Company, they were begun at a time when our guests were facing economic pressures due to rising costs of gasoline, utilities and food. As a result, we have lost a portion of our bar and grill customer base without gaining significant market share from our high quality casual dining competitors. To turn around our declining sales we must continue to provide high levels of quality in terms of both food and service and a strong value to our guests. We must also develop a memorable advertising message that overcomes our disadvantage in advertising dollars relative to some of our competitors. The risk of inappropriate decisions could further negatively impact our overall sales strategy, and thus continued success. As mentioned above, one factor integral to our success is our ability to persuade our customers of the compelling value in paying our prices for higher-quality food and guest experience. To deliver on our promise of “Simple, Fresh, American Dining,” we offer all fresh chicken, crab, steaks, and burgers, an enhanced garden bar, and premium beverages. If we are not successful at educating our customer about the value and quality of our products or our customers reject our pricing approach, then we may have to change our marketing or pricing strategies which could also negatively impact our growth goals. Though believed to be a smaller risk than not achieving growth through increased same-restaurant sales, there are risks associated with new restaurant openings, including, but not limited to, finding sites that will support a profitable level of sales and generate returns on investment that exceed our cost of capital, the acceptance of our concept in new markets, and the recruitment of qualified operating personnel. Although a significant portion of our historical growth has been attributable to opening new restaurants, due to a perceived saturation of the market with casual dining restaurants, we have changed our strategy, such that we only plan to open approximately four Company-owned restaurants in fiscal 2009. Our domestic franchisees likewise expect to open fewer restaurants in fiscal 2009. Once opened, we anticipate new restaurants will take four to six months to reach planned operational profitability due to the associated start-up costs. We can provide no assurance that any restaurant we open will be profitable or obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants nor can we provide assurance that our remodeling efforts will produce incremental sales sufficient to offset the costs of the remodels. -9- We may be unable to remain competitive because we are a leveraged company with restrictive financial covenants, and any potential inability to meet financial covenants contained in any of our indebtedness or guarantees could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. The amount of debt we carry is significant. At June 3, 2008, we had a total of $605.4 million in debt and capital lease obligations and guaranteed a further $51.5 million in debt. The indebtedness requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operating activities to principal and interest payments, which could prevent or limit our ability to proceed with operational improvement initiatives. The three most significant loans we have are our revolving credit facility ($414.4 million outstanding at June 3, 2008) (the “Credit Facility”) and our Series A and B senior notes ($82.8 million and $62.4 million, respectively, outstanding at June 3, 2008) (the “Private Placement”). The Series A and B senior notes mature in fiscal 2010 and 2013, respectively, and we cannot give assurance we will be able to renew the Private Placement at favorable terms, or that we will be able to renew our loans at all. We also provide a partial guaranty on a $48 million credit facility, which assists franchise partnerships with working capital needs (the “Franchise Facility”). Under the guaranty, if the Franchise Facility were to be unwound, we could be required to repay the lenders for all then-outstanding borrowings, not just the amounts which would be owed should individual franchises default. At June 3, 2008, the total amount outstanding under the Franchise Facility was $46.6 million. On May 21, 2008, we entered into amendments of the Credit Facility, the notes issued in the Private Placement, and the Franchise Facility. As a result of these amendments, we agreed to not make any further dividend payments or stock repurchases until we achieve certain leverage thresholds for two consecutive fiscal quarters. Additionally, the amendments limit the amount of our capital expenditures, require prepayments of principal on the Private Placement, and reduce our borrowing capacity on the Credit Facility. In connection with the amendment to the notes issued in the Private Placement, we also agreed to pay higher quarterly interest rates for the Series A and B senior notes (currently 8.19% and 8.92%, respectively). See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the terms of these amendments. While we were successful in negotiating amendments to the Credit Facility, the Private Placement, and the Franchise Facility, if we were to violate any of our covenants in the future and either agreements cannot be reached with our lenders or agreements are reached but we do not meet the revised covenants, our lenders could exercise their rights under the indebtedness and guaranty. We may not be successful at operating profitable restaurants. The success of our brand is dependent upon operating profitable restaurants. The profitability of our restaurants is dependent on several factors, including the following: • the hiring, training, and retention of excellent restaurant managers and staff; • the ability to timely and effectively meet customer demands and maintain our strong customer base; • the ability to manage costs and prudently allocate capital resources; • the ability to create and implement an effective marketing/advertising strategy; • the ability to leverage sales following the completion of our re-imaging initiative; and • the ability to provide innovative products to our customers at a reasonable price. The profitability of our restaurants also depends on our ability to adapt the brand in such a way that consumers see us as fresh and relevant. In addition, the results of our currently high performing restaurants may not be indicative of their long-term performance, as factors affecting their success may change. Among others, one potential impact of -10- declining profitability of our restaurants is increased asset impairment charges. This could be significant as property and equipment currently represents 86% of our total assets at June 3, 2008. The inability of our franchises to operate profitable restaurants may negatively impact our continued financial success. We operate franchise programs with domestic franchise partnerships and traditional domestic and international franchisees. In addition to the income (or offsetting the losses) we record under the equity method of accounting from our investment in certain of these franchises, we also collect royalties, marketing, and purchasing fees, and in some cases support service fees, as well as interest and other fees from the franchises. Further, as part of the franchise partnership program, we serve as partial guarantor for three credit facilities, two of which are no longer active. The ability of these franchise groups, particularly the franchise partnerships, to continually generate profits impacts our overall profitability and brand recognition. Growth within the existing franchise base is dependent upon many of the same factors that apply to our Company-owned restaurants, and sometimes the challenges of opening profitable restaurants prove to be more difficult for our franchisees. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us. In addition, our continued growth is also partially dependent upon our ability to find and retain qualified franchisees in new markets, which may include markets in which the Ruby Tuesday brand may be less well known. Furthermore, the loss of any of our franchisees due to financial concerns and/or operational inefficiencies could impact our profitability and brand. Our franchisees are obligated in many ways to operate their restaurants according to the specific guidelines set forth by us. We provide training opportunities to our franchise operators to fully integrate them into our operating strategy. However, since we do not have control over these restaurants, we cannot give assurance that there will not be differences in product quality or that there will be adherence to all Company guidelines at these franchise restaurants. In order to mitigate these risks, we do require that our franchisees focus on the quality of their operations, and we expect full compliance with our Company standards. Concurrent with these risks, should the financial stability of our franchisees deteriorate and we opt for brand-protective or other reasons to increase our level of support, we could be required to consolidate certain of them under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46(R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51” (“FIN 46R”). We have concluded based on our most recent analyses prepared using financial information obtained from the franchise entities that we are not required as of June 3, 2008 to consolidate any of them under the provisions of FIN 46R. However, if in the future we were required to consolidate any franchise entities, our financial performance could be negatively impacted. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. We assess our goodwill, trademarks and other long-lived assets as and when required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States to determine whether they are impaired. Based upon our reviews in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 we recorded impairments of $4.3 million, $0.6 million, and $1.5 million, respectively. The majority of these charges were for restaurant impairments. If market conditions at either the restaurant store level or system-wide deteriorate, or if operating results decline unexpectedly, we may be required to record additional impairment charges. Additional impairment charges would reduce our reported earnings for the periods in which they are recorded. Economic, demographic and other changes, seasonal fluctuations, natural disasters, and terrorism could adversely impact guest traffic and profitability in our restaurants. Our business can be negatively impacted by many factors, including those which affect the restaurant only at the local level as well as others which attract national or international attention. Risks that could cause us to suffer losses include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: • economic factors (including economic slowdowns or other inflation-related issues); -11- • demographic changes, particularly with regard to dining and discretionary spending habits, in the areas in which our restaurants are located; • changes in consumer preferences; • changes in federal or state income tax laws; • seasonal fluctuations due to the days of the week on which holidays occur, which may impact spending patterns; • natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, blizzards, or other severe weather; • concerns and/or unfavorable publicity over health issues, food quality or restaurant cleanliness; • effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto; and • increased insurance and/or self-insurance costs. Each of the above items could potentially negatively impact our guest traffic and/or our profitability. The potential for increased commodity, energy, and other costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We continually purchase basic commodities such as beef, chicken, cheese and other items for use in many of the products we sell. Although we attempt to maintain control of commodity costs by engaging in volume commitments with third parties for many of our food-related supplies, we cannot assure that the costs of these commodities will not fluctuate, as we often have no control over such items. In addition, we rely on third party distribution companies to frequently deliver perishable food and supplies to our restaurants. We cannot make assurances regarding the continued supply of our inventory since we do not have control over the businesses of our suppliers. Should our inventories lack in supply, our business could suffer, as we may be unable to meet customer demands. These disruptions may also force us to purchase food supplies from suppliers at higher costs. The result of this is that our operating costs may increase without the desire and/or ability to pass the price increases to our customers. We must purchase energy-related products such as electricity, oil and natural gas for use in each of our restaurants. Our suppliers must purchase gasoline in order to transport food and supplies to us. Our guests purchase energy to heat and cool their homes and fuel their automobiles. When energy prices, such as those for gasoline, heating and cooling increase, we incur greater costs to operate our restaurants. Likewise our guests have lower disposable income and thus may reduce the frequency in which they dine out and/or feel compelled to choose more inexpensive restaurants when eating outside the home. The costs of these energy-related items will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, current political/international relations and weather conditions. Because we cannot control these types of factors, there is a risk that prices of energy/utility items will increase beyond our current projections and adversely affect our operations. We face continually increasing competition in the restaurant industry for locations, guests, staff, supplies, and new products. Our business is subject to intense competition with respect to prices, services, locations, qualified management personnel and quality of food. We compete with other food service operations, with locally-owned restaurants, and with other national and regional restaurant chains that offer the same or similar types of services and products. Some of our competitors may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Changes in consumer tastes; national, regional, or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns and the types, numbers and locations of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business. There is active competition for management personnel and for attractive commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor, equipment, fixture and benefit costs, and difficulty in attracting qualified -12- management and hourly employees may adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our restaurants in particular. Litigation could negatively impact our results of operations as well as our future business. We are subject to litigation and other customer complaints concerning our food safety, service, and/or other operational factors. Guests may file formal litigation complaints that we are required to defend, whether or not we believe them to be true. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if it develops into a costly situation and distracts our management. Employees may also, from time to time, subject us to litigation regarding injury, discrimination and other employment issues. Suppliers, landlords and distributors, particularly those with which we currently maintain purchase commitments/contracts, could also potentially allege non-compliance with their contracts should they consider our actions to be contrary to our commitments. Additionally, we are subject to the risk of litigation by our stakeholders as a result of factors including, but not limited to, matters of executive compensation or performance of our stock price. The cost of compliance with various government regulations may negatively affect our business. We are subject to various forms of governmental regulations. We are required to follow various international, federal, state, and local laws common to the food industry, including regulations relating to food and workplace safety, sanitation, the sale of alcoholic beverages, environmental issues, minimum wage, overtime, increasing complexity in immigration laws and regulations, and other labor issues. The federal minimum wage increased to $5.85 in July 2007 and increased again to $6.55 in July 2008. Further changes in these types of laws, including additional state or federal government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could harm our operating results. Also, failure to obtain or maintain the necessary licenses and permits needed to operate our restaurants could result in an inability to open new restaurants or force us to close existing restaurants. We are also subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and to state and foreign laws that govern the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales or fines or require us to rescind offers to franchisees, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating costs. Further, any future legislation regulating franchise laws and relationships may negatively affect our operations. Approximately 10% of our revenue is attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, the licenses are renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. In certain states we are subject to “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Some dram shop litigation against restaurant companies has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, but we cannot guarantee that this insurance will be adequate in the event we are found liable in a dram shop case. As a publicly traded corporation, we are subject to various rules and regulations as mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Failure to timely comply with these guidelines could result in penalties and/or adverse reactions by our shareholders. -13- We are dependent on key personnel. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain certain key executive and other employees. These personnel serve to maintain a corporate vision for our Company, execute our business strategy, and maintain consistency in the operating standards of our restaurants. The loss of our key personnel or a significant shortage of high quality restaurant team members could potentially impact our future growth decisions and our future profitability. While we maintain an employment agreement with Samuel E. Beall, III, our chief executive officer and founder, the term of this employment agreement ends on July 18, 2010 and may not provide sufficient incentives for him to continue employment with Ruby Tuesday. While we are constantly focused on succession plans at all levels, in the event his employment terminates or he becomes incapacitated, we can make no assurance regarding the impact his loss could have on our business and financial results. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns could adversely affect consumer confidence in our restaurants. We face food safety issues that are common to the food industry. We work to provide a clean, safe environment for both our guests and employees. Otherwise, we risk losing guests and/or employees due to unfavorable publicity and/or a lack of confidence in our ability to provide a safe dining and/or work experience. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis, or salmonella, as well as the prospect of “mad cow” disease and avian flu, are also a concern for our industry. We can and do attempt to purchase supplies from reputable suppliers/distributors and have certain procedures in place to test for safety and quality standards, but we can make no assurances regarding whether these supplies may contain contaminated goods. In addition, we cannot ensure the continued health of each of our employees. We provide health-related training for each of our staff and strive to keep ill employees away from food items. However, we may not be able to detect when our employees are sick until the time that their symptoms occur, which may be too late if they have prepared/served food for our guests. The occurrence of an outbreak of a food-borne illness, whether at one of our restaurants or one of our competitors, could result in temporary store closings or other negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Changes in financial accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Changes in financial accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the new rules are required to be implemented. Many existing accounting standards require management to make subjective assumptions, such as those required for stock compensation, tax matters, consolidation accounting, franchise acquisitions, litigation, and asset impairment calculations. Changes in accounting standards or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. We could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect customers’ credit card data. We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business, and any material failure, interruption of service, or compromised data security could adversely affect our operations. While we expend significant resources to ensure that our information technology operates securely and effectively, any security breaches could result in disruptions to operations or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Additionally, if our customers’ credit card information or our employees’ personal data are compromised our operations could be adversely affected, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subjected to litigation or the imposition of penalties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -14- 