Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risk factors discussed below may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statement. The current economic situation could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. The U.S. economy continues to experience volatility due to uncertainties related to availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial services sectors, softness in the housing market, diminished market liquidity, volatile consumer confidence and high unemployment rates. Our business is dependent to a significant extent on national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly those that affect our guests that frequently patronize our restaurants. In particular, where our customers’ disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by job losses, credit constraints and higher housing, taxes, energy, interest or other costs) or where the perceived wealth of customers has decreased (because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), our business could experience lower sales and customer traffic as potential customers choose lower-cost alternatives or choose alternatives to dining out. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction could negatively impact our financial performance, as reduced revenues may result in downward pressure on margins. These factors could reduce our Company-owned restaurants’ gross sales and profitability. These factors could also reduce gross sales of franchised restaurants, resulting in lower royalty payments from franchisees, and reduce profitability of franchise restaurants, potentially impacting the ability of franchisees to make royalty payments as they become due. Reduction in cash flows from either Company-owned or franchised restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. We may fail to reach our growth goals, including sales, which may negatively impact our continued financial and operational success. We establish sales goals each fiscal year based on a strategy of maintaining and growing same-restaurant sales and, where practical, new market development and further penetration of existing markets. We believe the biggest risk to attaining our growth goals is our ability to maintain or increase restaurant sales in existing markets, which is dependent upon factors both within and outside our control. Among other factors, these desired increases are dependent upon consumer spending, the overall state of the economy, our quality of operations, and the effectiveness of our marketing. In fiscal 2008 and 2009 we lost a portion of our customer base following an effort to move our brand towards a high quality casual dining restaurant and away from the traditional bar and grill category. While we believe that the changes were necessary for the long-term success of our Company, they were completed at a time when our guests were facing economic pressures due to rising costs of gasoline, utilities and food. We tempered our sales declines in fiscal 2010, after having closed a number of unprofitable restaurants in fiscal 2009, in part by offering value incentives such as “Buy One Entree Get One Free”. Throughout the second half of fiscal 2010, we shifted our strategy such that our value incentives more frequently were “Buy One Entree Get One Free Up to $10”. To continue to turn around our declining sales, we must continue to provide high levels of quality in terms of both food and service and a strong perception of value to our guests. We must also develop a comprehensive marketing approach that overcomes our disadvantage of having a substantially lower advertising budget relative to some of our competitors. The risk of ineffective marketing decisions could further negatively impact our overall sales strategy, and thus continued success. As mentioned above, one factor integral to our success is our ability to persuade our customers of the compelling value in paying our prices for higher-quality food and guest experience. To deliver on our promise of “Simple, Fresh, American Dining,” we offer steaks, all fresh chicken, crab, lobster, burgers, an enhanced garden bar, and premium beverages. If we are not successful at educating our customer about the value and quality of our products or our customers reject our pricing approach, then we may have to change our marketing or pricing strategies which could also negatively impact our growth goals. Although a significant portion of our historical growth has been attributable to opening new restaurants, due to a perceived saturation of the market with casual dining restaurants, we have changed our strategy such that we did not 10 open any Company-owned restaurants in fiscal 2010 and only plan to open up to a few Ruby Tuesday concept restaurants in fiscal 2011. As part of our strategy to find ways to get more sales and profits out of existing assets, and in part due to the placement of certain of our Ruby Tuesday concept restaurants in hypercompetitive markets, our plans for fiscal 2011 include a test as to whether we can successfully grow sales and profits by converting certain existing Ruby Tuesday restaurants into other concepts. Three such choices currently available to us are Jim ‘N Nicks, a restaurant concept specializing in the sale of barbeque and related food items largely prepared “from scratch”, Truffles, an upscale café offering a diverse menu, and Wok Hay, a full service Asian restaurant. We are also exploring the possibilities of selected franchise acquisitions. Though believed to be a smaller risk than not achieving growth through increased same-restaurant sales, there are risks associated with restaurant openings and conversions, including, but not limited to, selection of sites that will support a profitable level of sales and generate returns on investment that exceed our cost of capital, the acceptance of our concepts in new markets, and the recruitment of qualified operating personnel. Once opened, we anticipate new restaurants will take four to six months to reach planned operational profitability due to the associated start-up costs. We can provide no assurance that any restaurant we or our franchisees open will be profitable or obtain operating results similar to those of our or their existing restaurants nor can we provide assurance that our remodeling efforts will produce incremental sales sufficient to offset the costs of the remodels. We may not be successful at operating profitable restaurants. The success of our brand is dependent upon operating profitable restaurants. The profitability of our restaurants is dependent on several factors, including the following: · the hiring, training, and retention of excellent restaurant managers and staff; · the ability to timely and effectively meet customer demands and maintain our strong customer base; · the ability to manage costs and prudently allocate capital resources; · the ability to create and implement an effective marketing/advertising strategy; · the ability to leverage sales following the completion of our re-imaging initiative; and · the ability to provide menu items with strong customer preference at attractive prices. The profitability of our restaurants also depends on our ability to adapt the brand in such a way that consumers see us as fresh and relevant. In addition, the results of our currently high performing restaurants may not be indicative of their long-term performance, as factors affecting their success may change. Among others, one potential impact of declining profitability of our restaurants is increased asset impairment charges. This could be significant as property and equipment represented 89% of our total assets at June 1, 2010. The inability of our franchises to operate profitable restaurants may negatively impact our continued financial success. We operate franchise programs with domestic franchise partnerships and traditional domestic and international franchisees. In addition to the income (or offsetting the losses) we record under the equity method of accounting from our investment in certain of these franchises, we also collect royalties, marketing, and purchasing fees, and in some cases support service fees, as well as interest and other fees from the franchisees. At times of economic downturn, we have occasionally chosen to temporarily lower these fees. Further, as part of the franchise partnership program, we serve as guarantor for three credit facilities, two of which are no longer active. The ability of these franchise groups to continually generate profits impacts our overall profitability and our brand image. Growth within the existing franchise base is dependent upon many of the same factors that apply to our Company-owned restaurants, and sometimes the challenges of opening profitable restaurants prove to be more difficult for our franchisees. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us. In addition, our continued growth is also partially dependent upon our ability to find and retain qualified franchisees in new markets, which may include markets in which the Ruby Tuesday brand may be less well known. Furthermore, the loss of any of our franchisees due to financial concerns and/or operational inefficiencies could impact our profitability and brand. 11 Our franchisees are obligated in many ways to operate their restaurants according to the specific guidelines set forth by us. We provide training opportunities to our franchise operators to fully integrate them into our operating strategy. However, since we do not have control over these restaurants, we cannot give assurance that there will not be differences in product quality or that there will be adherence to all Company guidelines at these franchise restaurants. In order to mitigate these risks, we do require that our franchisees focus on the quality of their operations, and we periodically visit their restaurants to ensure compliance with Company standards. Concurrent with these risks, should the financial stability of our franchisees deteriorate and we opt for brand-protective or other reasons to increase our level of support, we could be required to consolidate certain of them under the provisions of guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. We have concluded based on our most recent analyses prepared using financial information obtained from the franchise entities that we are not required as of June 1, 2010 to consolidate any of them. However, as the U.S. economy remains volatile, we anticipate that we will receive increased requests for financial support from certain of our franchisees, particularly the franchise partnerships. Should we opt to provide that support, the likelihood we would then be required to consolidate the entities making the requests (most likely those in the weakest financial condition) increases and, our financial performance likely would be negatively impacted. Alternatively, should we opt to not provide requested support, our franchisees’ financial struggles could accelerate and possibly, in a worst case, lead certain of them to bankruptcy, at which point we would likely be required to make payments according to the terms of any loans for which we had previously provided a guaranty in addition to payments on any leases subleased to franchisees for which we remain primarily liable. Food safety and food-borne and pandemic illness concerns could adversely affect consumer confidence in our restaurants. We face food safety issues that are common to the food industry. We work to provide a clean, safe environment for both our guests and employees. Otherwise, we risk losing guests and/or employees due to unfavorable publicity and/or a lack of confidence in our ability to provide a safe dining and/or work experience. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis, or salmonella, are also a concern for our industry. We can and do attempt to purchase food from reputable suppliers/distributors and have certain procedures in place to ensure safety and quality standards, but we can make no assurances regarding whether these supplies may contain contaminated goods. Further, concerns and/or unfavorable publicity over health issues and pandemic illness, such as the impact of the H1N1 influenza A virus or the Norovirus, could have adverse consequences for our industry. In addition, we cannot ensure the continued health of each of our employees. We provide health-related training for each of our staff and strive to keep ill employees away from other employees, guests, and food items. However, we may not be able to detect when our employees are sick until the time that their symptoms occur, which may be too late if they have prepared/served food for our guests. The occurrence of an outbreak of a food-borne illness, whether at one of our restaurants or one of our competitors, could result in temporary store closings or other negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. We assess our goodwill, trademarks and other long-lived assets as and when required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States to determine whether they are impaired. As discussed further in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, given our lowered stock price, declines in same-restaurant sales, and the overall economic conditions and challenging environment for the restaurant industry, we concluded during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 that our goodwill was impaired and recorded a charge of $19.0 million ($14.0 million, net of tax), representing the full value of goodwill. Additionally, during the third quarter of fiscal 2009 we implemented a plan to close 43 restaurants and announced our intention to close an additional 30 restaurants over the next several years. Based upon our reviews in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, we recorded impairments of $3.2 million, $41.1 million, and $4.3 million, respectively. Excluding that relating to goodwill, the majority of these charges were for restaurant impairments. 12 If market conditions at these restaurants, or system-wide levels, deteriorate, or if operating results decline unexpectedly, we may be required to record additional impairment charges. Additional impairment charges would reduce our reported earnings for the periods in which they are recorded. We may be unable to remain competitive because we are a leveraged company with restrictive financial covenants, and any potential inability to meet financial covenants contained in any of our indebtedness or guarantees could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. Although we have repaid $204.1 million of our long-term debt during fiscal 2010, we owed $289.3 million in debt and capital lease obligations at June 1, 2010, and guaranteed a further $51.7 million in debt. The indebtedness requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operating activities to principal and interest payments, which could prevent or limit our ability to proceed with operational improvement initiatives. The two most significant loans we have are our revolving credit facility ($203.8 million outstanding at June 1, 2010) (the “Credit Facility”) and our Series B senior notes ($48.4 million outstanding at June 1, 2010) (the “Private Placement”). The Credit Facility and Series B senior notes mature in fiscal 2012 and 2013, respectively. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to repay or refinance the Credit Facility and/or Series B senior notes or our other borrowings when due on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The most significant portion of our guarantees is attributable to a $48 million credit facility which assists franchise partnerships with working capital needs (the “Franchise Facility”). This guaranty can be partial or full for a particular franchise partnership depending upon the financial strength of the particular franchise partnership. As of June 1, 2010, amounts outstanding under the Franchise Facility relating to all of the franchise partnerships that were borrowers thereunder were fully guaranteed by us. Under the guaranty, if the Franchise Facility were to be unwound, we could be required to repay the lenders for all then-outstanding borrowings, not just the amounts which would be owed should individual franchise partnerships default. Actions of the franchise partnerships that are outside of our control, such as franchise partnerships defaulting under the Franchise Facility, could cause the Franchise Facility to be unwound, which would mean that loan commitments under the Franchise Facility can no longer be established, extended or renewed. Additionally, if we fail to pay any amount due under the Franchise Facility, breach any representations or warranties, fail to meet any covenants, file for bankruptcy, fail to pay any debt when due or if a judgment is awarded against us in excess of $10 million and enforcement proceedings have commenced upon such judgment or a stay of enforcement of such judgment has not been in effect for a period of 30 consecutive days, then the lenders under the Franchise Facility could terminate the loan commitment and demand that we purchase all outstanding loans and loan commitments and assume the obligations. Further, in such situation, if 51% of the participating lenders under the Franchise Facility request in writing, they can declare all loans due and payable, which could have a material adverse effect on us. At June 1, 2010, the total amount outstanding under the Franchise Facility was $47.3 million. While we were successful in negotiating amendments to the Credit Facility, the Private Placement, and the Franchise Facility when needed during fiscal 2008, if we were to violate any of our financial or other covenants in the future and either agreements cannot be reached with our lenders or agreements are reached but we do not meet the revised covenants, our lenders could exercise their rights under the indebtedness and guaranty, including requiring immediate repayment of all borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, if any agreements were reached with our lenders, they might require us to pay higher interest rates. Economic, demographic and other changes, seasonal fluctuations, natural disasters, and terrorism could adversely impact guest traffic and profitability in our restaurants. Our business can be negatively impacted by many factors, including those which affect the restaurant only at the local level as well as others which attract national or international attention. Risks that could cause us to suffer losses include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: · economic factors (including economic slowdowns or other inflation-related issues); · demographic changes, particularly with regard to dining and discretionary spending habits, in the areas in which our restaurants are located; · changes in consumer preferences; 13 · changes in federal or state income tax laws; · seasonal fluctuations due to the days of the week on which holidays occur, which may impact spending patterns; · natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, blizzards, floods, or other severe weather; · effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto; and · increased insurance and/or self-insurance costs. Each of the above items could potentially negatively impact our guest traffic and/or our profitability. The potential for increased commodity, energy, and other costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We continually purchase basic commodities such as beef, chicken, cheese and other items for use in many of the products we sell. Although we attempt to maintain control of commodity costs by engaging in volume commitments with third parties for many of our food-related supplies, we cannot assure that the costs of these commodities will not fluctuate, as we often have no control over such items. In addition, we rely on third-party distribution companies to frequently deliver perishable food and supplies to our restaurants. We cannot make assurances regarding the continued supply of our inventory since we do not have control over the businesses of our suppliers. Should our inventories lack in supply, our business could suffer, as we may be unable to meet customer demands. These disruptions may also force us to purchase food supplies from suppliers at higher costs. The result of this is that our operating costs may increase without the desire and/or ability to pass the price increases to our customers. We must purchase energy-related products such as electricity, oil and natural gas for use in each of our restaurants. Our suppliers must purchase gasoline in order to transport food and supplies to us. Our guests purchase energy to heat and cool their homes and fuel their automobiles. When energy prices, such as those for gasoline, heating and cooling increase, we incur greater costs to operate our restaurants. Likewise our guests have lower disposable income and thus may reduce the frequency in which they dine out and/or feel compelled to choose more inexpensive restaurants when eating outside the home. The costs of these energy-related items will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, current political/international relations and weather conditions. Because we cannot control these types of factors, there is a risk that prices of energy/utility items will increase beyond our current projections and adversely affect our operations. We face continually increasing competition in the restaurant industry for guests, staff, locations, supplies, and new products. Our business is subject to intense competition with respect to prices, services, locations, qualified management personnel and quality of food. We compete with other food service operations, with locally-owned restaurants, and with other national and regional restaurant chains that offer the same or similar types of services and products. Some of our competitors may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Changes in consumer tastes; national, regional, or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns and the types, numbers and locations of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business. There is active competition for management personnel and for attractive commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor, equipment, fixture and benefit costs, and difficulty in attracting qualified management and hourly employees may adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our restaurants in particular. Litigation could negatively impact our results of operations as well as our future business. We are subject to litigation and other customer complaints concerning our food safety, service, and/or other operational factors. Guests may file formal litigation complaints that we are required to defend, whether or not we believe them to be true. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if it develops into a costly situation and distracts our management. Employees may also, from time to time, subject us to litigation regarding injury, discrimination, wage and hour, and other employment issues. Suppliers, landlords and distributors, particularly those with which we currently maintain purchase commitments/contracts, could 14 also potentially allege non-compliance with their contracts should they consider our actions to be contrary to our commitments. Additionally, we are subject to the risk of litigation by our shareholders as a result of factors including, but not limited to, matters of executive compensation or performance of our stock price. In certain states we are subject to “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Some dram shop litigation against restaurant companies has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages. As disclosed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in such a case, Dan Maddy v. Ruby Tuesday, Inc., at the current time. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, but we cannot guarantee that this insurance will be adequate in the event we are found liable in the Maddy case or any other dram shop case. The cost of compliance with various government regulations may negatively affect our business. We are subject to various forms of governmental regulations. We are required to follow various international, federal, state, and local laws common to the food industry, including regulations relating to food and workplace safety, sanitation, the sale of alcoholic beverages, environmental issues, minimum wage, overtime, health care, increasing complexity in immigration laws and regulations, and other labor issues. Further changes in these types of laws, including additional state or federal government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could harm our operating results. Also, failure to obtain or maintain the necessary licenses and permits needed to operate our restaurants could result in an inability to open new restaurants or force us to close existing restaurants. Recent health care legislation enacted by the Federal Government mandates menu labeling of certain nutritional aspects of restaurant menu items such as caloric, sugar, sodium, and fat content. Altering our recipes in response to such legislation could increase our costs and/or change the flavor profile of our menu offerings which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, minimum employee health care coverage mandated by state or federal legislation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and to state and foreign laws that govern the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales or fines or require us to rescind offers to franchisees, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating costs. Further, any future legislation regulating franchise laws and relationships may negatively affect our operations. Approximately 10% of our revenue is attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, the licenses are renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. As a publicly traded corporation, we are subject to various rules and regulations as mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. Failure to timely comply with these guidelines could result in penalties and/or adverse reactions by our shareholders. We are dependent on key personnel. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain certain key executive and other employees. These personnel serve to maintain a corporate vision for our Company, execute our business strategy, and maintain consistency in the operating standards of our restaurants. The loss of our key personnel or a significant 15 shortage of high quality restaurant team members could potentially impact our future growth decisions and our future profitability. Samuel E. Beall, III, our chief executive officer and founder, is currently retirement-eligible. While we are constantly focused on succession plans at all levels, in the event his employment terminates or he becomes incapacitated, we can make no assurance regarding the impact his loss could have on our business and financial results. Changes in financial accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Changes in financial accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the new rules are required to be implemented. Many existing accounting standards require management to make subjective assumptions, such as those required for stock compensation, tax matters, consolidation accounting, franchise acquisitions, litigation, and asset impairment calculations. Changes in accounting standards or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. We could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect our customers’ credit card information or our employees’ personal data. We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business, and any material failure, interruption of service, or compromised data security could adversely affect our operations. While we expend significant resources to ensure that our information technology operates securely and effectively, any security breaches could result in disruptions to operations or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Additionally, if our customers’ credit card or other personal information or our employees’ personal data are compromised our operations could be adversely affected, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subjected to litigation or the imposition of penalties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 