Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of those risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be unsuccessful in our television marketing efforts, which may negatively impact our continued financial and operational success. Our marketing strategy for the last several fiscal years has focused mainly on print promotions, digital media, and local marketing programs, with minimal spend on television. In fiscal 2012 we began testing television marketing in our markets with anywhere from 20% to 100% of our restaurants covered by television advertising leveraging a mixture of network and national cable at varying media weights. Based on favorable trends exhibited by our test markets in fiscal 2012, at the start of fiscal 2013 we deployed a television marketing program which will cover the entire system of restaurants for a portion of each quarter, with the remaining portion of the quarter to be supplemented by higher-end direct mail and other promotions. We believe that having television advertising expense levels more in line with our peers in tandem with a more balanced approach on our promotional strategies will position us for improvements in same-restaurant sales in the future through driving repeat and new trial of our brand, in addition to enhancing our brand visibility. Additionally, in order to fund the incremental television advertising efforts at no dilution to the overall profitability or cash flow of the company, we engaged a leading enterprise improvement consulting firm in fiscal 2012 to assist us in identifying savings opportunities in a number of key areas including procurement, occupancy, and maintenance costs. These savings have been identified and implemented, and plans are for the majority of them to be reinvested into our television marketing programs. While we believe that we have a good comprehensive marketing program in place to grow our same-restaurant sales in addition to a way to pay for this increased television spending through our cost savings initiatives, we can make no assurances regarding whether or not we will be successful in these efforts. Although we believe a long-term strategy focused on a more balanced approach to television spending and promotional spending is the right approach, we are entering the television marketing space and competing against industry peers who have a longer and more established track record of promoting their brands on television, in addition to larger overall marketing budgets, thus potentially putting us at a competitive disadvantage. If our competitors should increase their spending levels of advertising or promotions in reaction to our increased television marketing efforts or due to their increased need to drive trial of their brands in this continued slow economic environment, our advertising and promotional activities could potentially become less effective than those of our competitors and we could experience significant declines in sales, profitability, and overall brand relevance. We may be unsuccessful in our strategies to grow revenue through new unit openings of our Lime Fresh fast casual brand or through converting existing Ruby Tuesday restaurants to our Marlin & Ray’s value-oriented seafood concept, since neither concept has proven its long-term viability or growth potential. Although we did not open any Company-owned Ruby Tuesday concept restaurants during the past three fiscal years, we do have a strategic plan to grow revenue through new concept unit growth in the future. As part of our strategy to reach our growth goals, in fiscal 2012 we acquired Lime Fresh which represented seven company-owned restaurants and four franchised restaurants. Our growth plans include the opening of new Lime Fresh restaurants, and we tentatively plan to add 12 to 16 Lime Fresh locations in fiscal 2013. Additionally, as part of our strategy to get more sales and cash flow out of our existing assets, in particular in our hypercompetitive markets, our plans for fiscal 2013 include continuing to test whether we can successfully grow sales and cash flows by converting certain existing Ruby Tuesday restaurants into our internally-developed seafood concept, Marlin & Ray’s. Our growth plans include converting five to seven Company-owned Ruby Tuesday restaurants to Marlin & Ray’s in fiscal 2013, in addition to opening one newly-constructed Marlin & Ray’s restaurant. While we believe the Lime Fresh fast casual brand and Marlin & Ray’s value-oriented seafood conversion brand both have significant potential given their low capital requirements and strong EBITDA margin potential, there are no 11 assurances that we will be able to successfully and profitably grow either of these concepts. There is an enhanced level of risk and uncertainty related to the operation and expansion of both of these newer brands as they are less-established than our anchor Ruby Tuesday brand. Though believed to be a smaller risk than not achieving growth through increased same-restaurant sales, there are risks associated with restaurant openings and conversions, including but not limited to the following: the identification and availability of suitable and econonomically-viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, the selection of sites that will support a profitable level of sales and generate returns on investment that exceed our cost of capital, the acceptance of our concepts in new markets, the ability to obtain all required governmental permits in a timely manner, and our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified management and operating personnel. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower-than-anticipated sales, earnings, and returns on investment in future periods. We made substantial investments in the development and expansion of both of these brands, including the acquisition of Lime Fresh in fiscal 2012, and additional investments may be required in order for us to refine and expand the concepts in fiscal 2013 and beyond. We can provide no assurance that these investments will be successful or that additional new restaurant growth or restaurant conversions will be accepted in the markets targeted for either concept. Once opened, we anticipate new restaurants will take four to six months to reach planned operational profitability due to the associated start-up costs. Both of these concepts are in the early stages of lifecycle development and both brands will continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties that accompany any emerging restaurant brand or format, in particular ones being developed and deployed in this current difficult economic environment. We may not be successful at operating profitable restaurants. The success of our Ruby Tuesday brand and, to a lesser extent, the success of our conversion and growth brands, is dependent upon operating profitable restaurants. The profitability of our restaurants is dependent on several factors, including the following: · the ability to timely and effectively meet customer demands and maintain our strong customer base; · the hiring, training, and retention of excellent restaurant managers and staff; · the ability to manage costs and prudently allocate capital resources; · the ability to achieve projected cost savings in a number of key areas, including procurement, occupancy, and maintenance costs; · the ability to create and implement an effective marketing/advertising strategy; · the ability to leverage sales following the completion of our conversions or the opening of new restaurants; and · the ability to provide menu items with strong customer preference at attractive prices. As previously mentioned, during fiscal 2011, we acquired 109 restaurants from certain of our franchisees. In addition, on April 11, 2012, we closed on our acquisition of Lime Fresh. Assumptions were made at the times of acquisition as to how we might best increase the revenues generated by these restaurants and, as a result of a realization of operational and financial synergies, our own cash flow. Unfortunately, there can be no assurance that the franchise restaurant or Lime Fresh acquisitions will result in the realization of the full anticipated benefits. For example, we may experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand these businesses and may not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities if general industry and business conditions deteriorate. Because much of our acquired franchise debt contains significant prepayment penalties, we may further find it difficult to replace the acquired franchise debt with similar loans with more favorable terms. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors. If these factors limit our ability to achieve the full anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, our expectations of future results of operations, including the synergies expected to result from the acquisitions, may not be met. If such difficulties are encountered or if such synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects are not realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 The profitability of our restaurants also depends on our ability to adapt our brand in such a way that consumers see us as fresh and relevant. In addition, the current performance of our restaurants may not be indicative of their long-term performance, as factors affecting their success may change. We can provide no assurance that any restaurant we open will be profitable or obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants nor can we provide assurance that our conversion efforts will produce incremental sales sufficient to offset the costs of the conversions. General economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. Our business is dependent to a significant extent on national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly those that affect our guests that frequently patronize our restaurants. In particular, where our customers’ disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by job losses, credit constraints and higher housing, taxes, energy, interest or other costs) or where the perceived wealth of customers has decreased (because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), our business could experience lower sales and customer traffic as potential customers choose lower-cost alternatives or choose alternatives to dining out. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction could negatively impact our financial performance, as reduced revenues may result in downward pressure on margins. These factors could reduce our Company-owned restaurants’ gross sales and profitability. These factors could also reduce gross sales of franchised restaurants, resulting in lower royalty payments from franchisees, and reduce profitability of franchise restaurants, potentially impacting the ability of franchisees to make royalty payments as they become due. Reduction in cash flows from either Company-owned or franchised restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. The potential for increases in key food products, energy, and other costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We continually purchase food products such as beef, chicken, seafood, cheese and other items for use in many of the products we sell. Although we attempt to maintain control of food costs by engaging in volume commitments with third parties for many of our food-related supplies, we cannot assure that the costs of these products will not fluctuate, as we often have no control over such items. In addition, we rely on third-party distribution companies to frequently deliver perishable food and supplies to our restaurants. We cannot make assurances regarding the continued supply of our inventory since we do not have control over the businesses of our suppliers. Should our inventories lack in supply, our business could suffer, as we may be unable to meet customer demands. These disruptions may also force us to purchase food supplies from suppliers at higher costs. The result of this is that our operating costs may increase without the desire and/or ability to pass the price increases to our customers. We must purchase energy-related products such as electricity, oil and natural gas for use in each of our restaurants. Our suppliers must purchase gasoline in order to transport food and supplies to us. Our guests purchase energy to heat and cool their homes and fuel their automobiles. When energy prices, such as those for gasoline, heating and cooling increase, we incur greater costs to operate our restaurants. Likewise our guests have lower disposable income and thus may reduce the frequency in which they dine out and/or feel compelled to choose more inexpensive restaurants when eating outside the home. The costs of these energy-related items will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, current political/international relations and weather conditions. Because we cannot control these types of factors, there is a risk that prices of energy items will increase beyond our current projections and adversely affect our operations. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. We assess our goodwill, trademarks and other long-lived assets as and when required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States to determine whether they are impaired. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. Certain of our long-lived assets, including amounts included within the Property and equipment, net, Goodwill, and Other assets, net captions of our Consolidated Balance Sheets, were recorded at estimated fair value on the dates of acquisition. Should future cash flows not support those estimated values, impairment charges will occur. 13 As discussed further in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 we decided to close 25 to 27 underperforming Company-owned Ruby Tuesday restaurants, 23 of which were closed in our fourth quarter and one since. Accordingly, during fiscal 2012 we recorded property impairment charges of $13.6 million, which included $9.7 million related to impairments associated with the decision to close the 25 to 27 restaurants. In early August 2011, the closing price of our common stock fell below our net book value per share and, with few exceptions, has remained there since. As discussed further in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, given our lowered stock price, declines in same-restaurant sales, and the overall economic conditions and challenging environment for the restaurant industry, we concluded during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 that our goodwill associated with the Ruby Tuesday concept was impaired and recorded a non-cash charge of $16.9 million ($12.0 million, net of tax). If market conditions deteriorate at either the restaurant store level or system-wide, or if operating results decline further, we may be required to record impairment charges. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. The amount of debt we carry, while believed by us to be prudent based upon our financial strategy, is significant. As of June 5, 2012, we owed $326.7 million of outstanding indebtedness, including $80.1 million of mortgage indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have any or all of the following consequences: · it may limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements; · it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; · we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy; · a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes; and · there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, the indenture governing our notes and our revolving credit facility contain financial and restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. If we were to violate any of our financial or other covenants in the future and either agreements cannot be reached with our creditors or agreements are reached but we do not comply with the revised covenants, our creditors could exercise their rights under the indebtedness, including requiring immediate repayment of all borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, if any agreements were reached with our creditors, they might require us to pay incremental fees and/or higher interest rates. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The indenture governing our notes and the agreement governing our revolving credit facility contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions to stockholders; · make certain investments; · create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; · merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and 14 · sell or transfer certain assets. Additionally, the agreement governing our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture and the revolving credit facility. We may also be unable to take advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our indebtedness. Food safety and food-borne and pandemic illness concerns could adversely affect consumer confidence in our restaurants. We face food safety issues that are common to the food industry. We work to provide a clean, safe environment for both our guests and employees. Otherwise, we risk endangering the health and safety of our guests and employees or losing guests and/or employees due to unfavorable publicity and/or a lack of confidence in our ability to provide a safe dining and/or work experience. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis, or salmonella, are also a concern for our industry. We attempt to purchase food from reputable suppliers/distributors and have certain procedures in place to ensure safety and quality standards, but we can make no assurances regarding whether these supplies may contain contaminated goods. In addition, we cannot ensure the continued health of each of our employees. We provide health-related training for each of our staff and strive to keep ill employees away from other employees, guests, and food items. However, we may not be able to detect when our employees are sick until the time that their symptoms occur, which may be too late if they have prepared/served food for our guests. The occurrence of an outbreak of a food-borne illness, whether at one of our restaurants or one of our competitors, could result in temporary store closings or other negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect the integrity of confidential data. We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business, and any material failure, interruption of service, or compromised data security could adversely affect our operations. While we expend significant resources to ensure that our information technology operates securely and effectively, any security breaches could result in disruptions to operations or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Additionally, if our customers’ credit card or other personal information or our employees’ personal data are compromised our operations could be adversely affected, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subjected to litigation or the imposition of penalties. Our inability or failure to execute on a comprehensive business continuity plan following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facility could materially adversely impact our business and our financial performance. Our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at our data center located at our Restaurant Support Services Center and two other buildings in Maryville, Tennessee. In addition, our data center’s systems are replicated daily at a disaster recovery site located in another state. We have procedures in place for business continuity to address most critical events, including back up and off-site locations for storage and recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully execute our disaster recovery procedures, we may experience delays in recovery and losses of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and exposure to administrative and other legal claims. The cost of compliance with various government regulations may negatively affect our business. We are subject to various forms of governmental regulations. We are required to follow various international, federal, state, and local laws common to the food industry, including regulations relating to food and workplace safety, sanitation, the sale of alcoholic beverages, environmental issues, minimum wage, overtime, health care, increasing 15 complexity in immigration laws and regulations, and other labor issues. Further changes in these types of laws, including additional state or federal government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could harm our operating results. Also, failure to obtain or maintain the necessary licenses and permits needed to operate our restaurants could result in an inability to open new restaurants or force us to close existing restaurants. The federal healthcare reform legislation that became law in March 2010 (known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (“PPACA”)) mandates menu labeling of certain nutritional aspects of restaurant menu items such as caloric, sugar, sodium, and fat content. Altering our recipes in response to such legislation could increase our costs and/or change the flavor profile of our menu offerings which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, if our customers perceive our menu items to contain unhealthy caloric, sugar, sodium, or fat content, our results of operations could be further adversely affected. Additionally, minimum employee health care coverage mandated by state or federal legislation, such as the PPACA, could significantly increase our employee health benefit costs or result in us altering the benefits we provide to our employees. While we are assessing the potential impact the PPACA will have on our business, certain of the mandates in the legislation are not yet effective. If our employee health benefit costs increase, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to offset these costs through an increase in our menu prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and to state and foreign laws that govern the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales or fines or require us to rescind offers to franchisees, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating costs. Further, any future legislation regulating franchise laws and relationships may negatively affect our operations. Approximately 11% of our revenue for fiscal 2012 is attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are required to comply with the alcohol-licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, the licenses are renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. As a publicly traded corporation, we are subject to various rules and regulations as mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. Failure to timely comply with these guidelines could result in penalties and/or adverse reactions by our shareholders. Economic, demographic and other changes, seasonal fluctuations, natural disasters, and terrorism could adversely impact guest traffic and profitability in our restaurants. Our business can be negatively impacted by many factors, including those which affect the restaurant only at the local level as well as others which attract national or international attention. Risks that could cause us to suffer losses include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: · economic factors (including economic slowdowns or other inflation-related issues); · demographic changes, particularly with regard to dining and discretionary spending habits, in the areas in which our restaurants are located; · changes in consumer preferences; · changes in federal or state income tax laws; 16 · seasonal fluctuations due to the days of the week on which holidays occur, which may impact spending patterns; · natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, blizzards, floods, or other severe weather; · effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto; and · increased insurance and/or self-insurance costs. Each of the above items could potentially negatively impact our guest traffic and/or our profitability. We face continually increasing competition in the restaurant industry for guests, staff, locations, supplies, and new products. Our business is subject to intense competition with respect to prices, services, locations, qualified management personnel and quality of food. We compete with other food service operations, with locally-owned restaurants, and with other national and regional restaurant chains that offer the same or similar types of services and products. Some of our competitors may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Changes in consumer tastes; national, regional, or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns and the types, numbers and locations of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business. There is active competition for management personnel and for attractive commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor, equipment, fixture and benefit costs, and difficulty in attracting qualified management and hourly employees may adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our restaurants in particular. Litigation could negatively impact our results of operations as well as our future business. We are subject to litigation and other customer complaints concerning our food safety, service, and/or other operational factors. Guests may file formal litigation complaints that we are required to defend, whether or not we believe them to be true. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if it develops into a costly situation and distracts our management. Employees may also, from time to time, subject us to litigation regarding injury, discrimination, wage and hour, and other employment issues. Suppliers, landlords and distributors, particularly those with which we currently maintain purchase commitments/contracts, could also potentially allege non-compliance with their contracts should they consider our actions to be contrary to our commitments. Additionally, we are subject to the risk of litigation by our shareholders as a result of factors including, but not limited to, matters of executive compensation or performance of our stock price. In certain states we are subject to “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Some dram shop litigation against restaurant companies has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, but we cannot guarantee that this insurance will be adequate in the event we are found liable in a dram shop case. We are dependent on key personnel. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain certain key executive and other employees. These personnel serve to maintain a corporate vision for our Company, execute our business strategy, and maintain consistency in the operating standards of our restaurants. The loss of our key personnel or a significant shortage of high quality restaurant team members could potentially impact our future growth decisions and our future profitability. Samuel E. Beall, III, our chief executive officer and founder, has announced that he will be stepping down from management and the Board of Directors once the Company names a successor. While we are in the process of finding his successor, we can make no assurance regarding the impact his loss could have on our business and financial results. 17 Changes in financial accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Changes in financial accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the new rules are required to be implemented. Many existing accounting standards require management to make subjective assumptions, such as those required for stock compensation, tax matters, franchise acquisitions, litigation, and asset impairment calculations. Changes in accounting standards or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Identification of a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting could significantly affect our financial results. We are subject to the internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. While we routinely assess and test our internal controls over financial reporting, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will prevent or detect instances of financial misstatement or fraud, or that we will be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could impact our ability to report accurate and timely financial results which could adversely affect our financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 