ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in the Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.General global economic and business conditions could negatively affect our results.Our Architectural Glass, Architectural Services and Architectural Framing Systems segments are dependent on global economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the North American commercial construction industry. The commercial construction industry is impacted negatively by volatility in global financial markets, including, among other things, volatility in securities prices, availability of credit, unemployment rates, consumer confidence, interest rates and commodity prices. To the extent changes in these factors negatively impact the overall commercial construction industry, our revenue and profits could be significantly reduced. Our Architectural Glass segment's operation located in Brazil is subject to the economic, political and tax conditions prevalent in the region. The economic conditions in this region are subject to different growth expectations, market weaknesses and business practices than seen in the U.S. We cannot predict how changing economic conditions in this region will impact our financial results.Our LSO segment depends on the strength of the retail custom picture framing industry. This industry is highly dependent on consumer confidence and the conditions of the U.S. economy. If consumer confidence declines, whether as a result of an economic slowdown, uncertainty regarding the future or other factors, our use of these strategies may not be as successful in the future, resulting in a potential decrease in net sales and operating income.10Table of ContentsUnfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results and financial position.Our subsidiaries in Canada and Brazil report their results of operations and financial position in their relevant functional currencies, which are then translated into U.S. Dollars. This translated financial information is included in our consolidated financial statements. The strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in comparison to these functional currencies could have a negative impact on our results and financial position.New competitors or specific actions of our existing competitors could adversely impact our industry position and future results.All of our operating segments operate in competitive industries where the actions of our existing competitors or new competitors could result in a loss of customers or share of customers' demand. Changes in our competitors' products, prices or services could negatively impact our share of demand, net sales or margins.Our Architectural Glass and Architectural Framing Systems segments have seen an increase in imports of competitive products from lower-cost, international suppliers that, if this were to continue, could negatively impact our net sales and margins. Our LSO segment competes with several international specialty glass manufacturers that have traditionally not penetrated the U.S. custom picture framing industry. Although these LSO competitors have not been able to meet the specification level of our products, upgrades to our competitor's products could have a negative impact on net sales or margins.Our ability to effectively utilize our manufacturing capacity could adversely impact future results. Near-term performance depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to increase and appropriately utilize available production capacity. The failure to successfully maintain existing capacity, invest in additional physical capacity and recruit necessary manufacturing labor could adversely affect our operating results. Product quality issues could negatively impact demand for our products and future profitability.We manufacture and/or install a significant portion of our products based on the specific requirements of each customer. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, or products are installed using incompatible glazing materials or installed improperly, we may experience additional warranty and service expense; reduced or canceled orders; diminished pricing power; higher manufacturing or installation costs; or delays in the collection of accounts receivable. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages that could negatively impact our financial results.Project management and installation issues could negatively impact future results.The Architectural Services segment is typically awarded fixed-price contracts for installation services. Often, bids are required before all aspects of a construction project are known. An underestimate in the amount of labor required and/or cost of materials for a project; a change in the timing of the delivery of product; difficulties or errors in execution; use of incompatible glazing materials; or significant project delays, caused by us or other trades, could result in failure to achieve the expected results. Any such issues could result in losses on individual contracts that could impact our operating results.Our future profitability and cash flow are dependent on realizing expected government incentives.We have made commitments to expand certain manufacturing facilities and make investments in new manufacturing capabilities. Contributing to the decision to make such investments was the availability of federal, state and local incentives including tax credits, tax increment financing and grants. If the Company is not able to realize the benefits of planned incentive packages, future operating results could be negatively impacted.A shift in consumer preferences could negatively impact the demand for our products.Any change in customer preference, architectural trends or building codes that reduces window-to-wall ratios in non-residential construction would negatively impact net sales and operating income in our Architectural Glass, Architectural Services and Architectural Framing Systems segments. The LSO segment depends on U.S. consumers framing art and other decorative items. Any shift in customer preference away from framed art to other forms of decorative media could negatively impact future net sales and operating income in the LSO segment.The loss of a significant customer in the LSO segment could adversely affect our results.The LSO segment is highly dependent on a relatively small number of customers for its sales. We expect to continue deriving a significant portion of our net sales from a small number of customers. Accordingly, loss of a significant customer or a significant reduction in pricing, or a shift to a less favorable mix of value-added picture framing glass or acrylic products for one of those customers could materially reduce LSO net sales and operating results.11Table of ContentsOur results can be volatile and differ significantly from our expectations and the expectations of analysts.Our net sales and operating results may differ from Company-provided guidance and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in future periods. Our annual net sales and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, fluctuating customer demand, delay or timing of shipments, construction delays or cancellations due to lack of financing for construction projects, changes in product and project, and market acceptance of new products. Manufacturing or operational difficulties that may arise due to quality control, or unplanned operational downtime may also adversely impact our annual net sales and operating results. In addition, competition, including new entrants into our markets, the introduction of new products by competitors, adoption of competitive technologies by our customers, or competitive pressures on prices of our products and services, could adversely impact our annual net sales and operating results. Finally, our annual net sales and operating results may vary depending on raw material pricing and the potential for disruption of supply, or changes in legislation that could have an adverse impact on our labor or other costs. Our failure to meet net sales and operating result expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We retain significant risk through self-insurance programs. We obtain third-party insurance for potential losses from general liability, employment practices, workers' compensation and automobile liability risk. However, a high amount of risk is retained on a self-insured basis through a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary. Therefore, a material product liability event, such as a material rework event, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Difficulties with our information technology systems and security could adversely affect our results.We have many information technology systems that are important to the operation of our businesses. These systems are used to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems and maintaining existing systems. Such difficulties could lead to significant additional expenses and/or disruption in business operations that could adversely affect our results. Additionally, information technology security threats are increasing in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Should such an attack succeed, it could lead to the compromise of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes, disruption in the availability of financial data, or misrepresentation of information via digital media. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation, and could result in litigation, regulatory action, potential liability, and increased costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection matters.We use hazardous chemicals in the production of our products and are thus subjected to changes in environmental legislation.We use hazardous chemicals in producing our products. One of our facilities has certain historical environmental conditions that we believe require remediation. Our inability to remediate the historical environmental conditions at the facility at or below the amounts reserved, therefore, could have a material adverse impact on future financial results. Additionally, we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products, compliance with which is expensive. Our failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or increased costs. Our financial results could also be adversely impacted by rising energy and material costs associated with environmental regulations. A loss of key personnel could negatively impact near-term results.Our success depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive management and other key personnel. If, for any reason, one or more senior executives or key personnel were not to remain active in our Company, our financial results could be adversely affected.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone12Table of Contents