ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in the Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. 9 Table of Contents Operational Risks Architectural Products and Services (Architectural) The Architectural segment designs, engineers, fabricates, installs, maintains and renovates the walls of glass and windows comprising the outside skin of commercial and institutional buildings. This segment has tended to follow the cyclical nature of the North American commercial construction industry and has traditionally outperformed its respective markets. There can be no assurance the trends experienced by the segment will continue. The Architectural segments markets are very competitive. The markets that this segment serves are very competitive, price and lead-time sensitive and are impacted by changes in the North American commercial construction industry, including unforeseen delays in project timing and work flow. It competes with several large integrated glass manufacturers, numerous specialty, architectural glass and window fabricators, and major contractors and subcontractors. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial or other resources than the Company. Product capabilities, quality, pricing, warranty, service and product lead-times are the primary competitive factors in this market. Changes in our competitor’s products, prices or services could negatively impact our ability to increase revenues, maintain our margins and increase our market share. Economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the North American commercial construction industry could have a major impact on the profitability of this segment. Given that there has traditionally been a lag between the general world-wide economy and the commercial construction industry and an additional approximate nine-month lag as it relates to our products and services, economic conditions may adversely impact the markets we serve. The Architectural segment results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance. We manufacture or install products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivables, higher manufacturing or installation costs, additional warranty and service expense, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages. The Architectural results could be adversely impacted by capacity utilization and facility ramp-ups. The Architectural segment’s near-term growth depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to fully utilize its capacity at its production facilities, especially as we begin to increase our capacity for our glass coating business with the construction of the glass fabrication facility in St. George, Utah, which is expected to become operational during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The failure to have sufficient capacity or to utilize capacity fully when needed, or to successfully integrate and manage additional capacity in the future, could adversely affect our relationships with customers, cause customers to buy similar products from our competitors if we are unable to meet their needs, causing us to operate at less profitable levels. Large-Scale Optical Technologies (LSO) The LSO segment develops and produces applications that enhance the visual performance of products for picture framing, display and imaging industries. The revenue and profitability of this segment have been inconsistent from year to year, with considerable focus put on developing the high-end mix of products sold to our customers. There can be no assurance that the revenue and profitability patterns experienced by the segment will not change in the near future or that the current trend to value-added products will continue. The LSO segment is highly dependent on United States consumer confidence and the U.S. economy. Our business in this segment depends, in part, on sales to the retail picture-framing market. These markets are highly dependent on consumer confidence and the conditions of the U.S. economy. We have been able to partially offset economic slowdowns in the recent past with new products, wider distribution and an increase in the mix of higher value-added picture framing products. If consumer confidence declines as a result of an economic slowdown or uncertainty in the future, our use of these strategies may not be as successful in the future, resulting in a decrease in revenues and operating income. The LSO segment is highly dependent on a relatively small number of customers for our sales. We continue to expect to derive a significant portion of our net sales from this small number of customers. Accordingly, loss of a significant customer or a significant shift in mix for one of those customers could materially reduce LSO revenues and operating results in any one year. 10 Table of Contents Automotive Replacement Glass and Services (Auto Glass) This segment fabricates automotive aftermarket replacement glass and OEM and aftermarket recreational vehicle and bus windows. The Auto Glass segment’s successful transition to new markets is uncertain. From fiscal 2001 through the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company’s windshield manufacturing facility sold nearly all of its capacity to PPG based on certain supply agreements. These agreements between the Company and PPG terminated in fiscal 2006, and PPG announced its intentions to reduce its purchases from our business unit. Although the Company has identified opportunities to replace this lost demand, there are no assurances that our autoglass manufacturing company will be able to sell products at the same level or at acceptable prices as it did with PPG. The Auto Glass segment may continue to experience changes in market dynamics impacting results. This market’s pricing structure has changed significantly in recent years due to several aspects. The primary factors are that insurance companies are seeking volume pricing at discounted rates from historical levels and that the market has experienced overcapacity in recent years with the influx of foreign-produced windshields. Additionally, the market has been impacted by the influx of repair services. Consequently, revenues have declined dramatically and margins have narrowed at the retail, wholesale and manufacturing levels. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase market share or improve or maintain its margins, whether through improved pricing conditions or cost savings. The Company’s U.S. automotive replacement glass distribution joint venture continues to experience difficult market conditions. During fiscal 2001, the Company and PPG combined their U.S. automotive glass replacement distribution businesses into a newly formed entity, PPG Auto Glass, of which the Company maintains a 34 percent ownership interest. Over the past three fiscal years, the autoglass market has experienced significant reductions in prices as a result of a high level of imports. The joint venture has lost market share and has had to reduce prices dramatically, while costs have not declined proportionately. The joint venture outlined new strategies to gain back market share and reduce costs and was able to execute against those strategies in fiscal 2006, which resulted in significantly better earnings. However, there are no assurances PPG Auto Glass will be able to maintain its market share or be able to continue to improve or maintain margins. Financial Risks Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts, company-provided guidance or investors in future periods. Our annual revenue and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: fluctuating customer demand, delay or timing of shipments, construction delays, changes in product mix or market acceptance of new products; manufacturing or operational difficulties that may arise due to quality control, capacity utilization of our production equipment or staffing requirements; and competition, including the introduction of new products by competitors, adoption of competitive technologies by our customers and competitive pressures on prices of our products and services. Our failure to meet revenue and operating result expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Self-Insurance and Product Liability Risk We retain a high level of uninsured risk; a material claim could impact our financial results. We obtain substantial amounts of commercial insurance for potential losses for general liability, employment practice, workers’ compensation and automobile liability risk. However, an amount of risk is retained on a self-insured basis through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary. Due to changes in the cost and availability of insurance in fiscal 2003, we accepted a material increase in our risk retention from our third-party product liability and general liability coverages. We maintained this coverage for fiscal 2005 and 2006, but at high deductible levels. Therefore, a material product liability event, such as a material rework event, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Environmental Regulation Risks We are subject to potential environmental, remediation and compliance risks that could adversely affect our earnings. We use hazardous chemicals in producing products at two facilities (one in our Architectural segment and one in our LSO segment). As a result, we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products, compliance with which is expensive. Our failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or increased costs. 11 Table of Contents Discontinued Curtainwall Operations The risks and uncertainties associated with discontinued operations could adversely impact the Company. During fiscal 1998, the Company made the strategic decision to close or exit its European and Asian international curtainwall operations in order to focus more selectively on higher-margin domestic curtainwall business. During fiscal 1999, the Company decided to sell its domestic large-scale curtainwall operation. The Company maintains risks associated with closing the domestic and international operations from performance bonds it established with its customers and remaining warranty coverages that exist on completed projects. In addition, the Company faces related risks and uncertainties, including the inability to effectively manage restructured business units and the inability to effectively manage costs or difficulties related to the operation of the businesses or execution of restructuring or exit activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 