ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in the Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Operational Risks Architectural Products and Services (Architectural) The Architectural segment designs, engineers, fabricates, installs, maintains and renovates the walls of glass and windows comprising the outside skin of commercial and institutional buildings. This segment has tended to lag the North American commercial construction industry cycle by approximately nine months and has traditionally outperformed its respective markets. There can be no assurance the trends experienced by the segment will continue. The Architectural segments markets are very competitive which could result in a loss of customers and negatively impact revenues and earnings. The markets that the Architectural segment serves are very competitive, price and lead-time sensitive and are impacted by changes in the North American commercial construction industry, including unforeseen delays in project timing and work flow. The segment competes with several large integrated glass manufacturers, numerous specialty, architectural glass and window fabricators, and major contractors and subcontractors. Many of our competitors have greater financial or other resources than the Company. Product capabilities, quality, pricing, warranty, service and product lead-times are the primary competitive factors in this market. Changes in our competitor’s products, prices or services could negatively impact our market share, revenues and margins. 9 Economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the North American commercial construction industry could have a major adverse impact on the profitability of this segment. There has traditionally been a lag between the general world-wide economy and the commercial construction industry, and an additional approximate nine-month lag as it relates to our products and services. However, economic conditions may change drastically as a result of significant events that may adversely impact the markets we serve resulting in lower revenues and earnings. The Architectural segment results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance reliability problems. We manufacture or install products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivables, higher manufacturing or installation costs, additional warranty and service expense, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages that could negatively impact our financial results. The Architectural results could be adversely impacted by capacity utilization. The Architectural segment’s near-term growth depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to fully utilize its capacity at its production facilities, especially as we begin to increase our capacity for our glass coating business with the construction of the glass fabrication facility in St. George, Utah, which became operational during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The failure to have sufficient capacity or to utilize fully when needed, or to successfully integrate and manage additional capacity in the future, could adversely affect our relationships with customers. Customers could choose to buy similar products from our competitors if we are unable to meet their needs which could, therefore, have an adverse impact on our operating results. The Architectural results could be adversely impacted by facility construction and ramp-ups. The Architectural segment’s financial results will depend on its ability to complete construction and ramp up its glass fabrication facility in St. George, Utah, which became operational during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, and the conversion of our autoglass segment facility to architectural glass fabrication. The timing and estimated expenditures could be materially different than we have projected, impacting our financial results and cash flows in fiscal 2008, and impacting the Company’s estimated returns on these investments. Large-Scale Optical Technologies (LSO) The LSO segment develops and produces applications that enhance the visual performance of products for picture framing, display and imaging industries. The revenue and profitability of this segment have been inconsistent from year to year, with considerable focus put on developing the high-end mix of products sold to our customers. Since fiscal 2004, the segment has been transitioning away from consumer electronics and focusing its efforts to value-added picture framing products. There can be no assurance that the revenue and profitability patterns experienced by the segment will not change in the near future or that the current trend to value-added products will continue. The LSO segment is highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and economy. Our business in this segment depends, in part, on sales to the retail picture-framing market. These markets are highly dependent on consumer confidence and the conditions of the U.S. economy. We have been able to partially offset the impact of economic slowdowns in the recent past with new products, wider distribution and an increase in the mix of higher value-added picture framing products. If consumer confidence declines as a result of an economic slowdown or uncertainty in the future, our use of these strategies may not be as successful in the future, resulting in a decrease in revenues and operating income. The LSO segment is highly dependent on a relatively small number of customers for our sales. We continue to expect to derive a significant portion of our net sales from a small number of customers. Accordingly, loss of a significant customer or a significant shift to a less favorable mix of value-added picture framing glass products for one of those customers could materially reduce LSO revenues and operating results in any one year. The LSO segment is highly dependent on changing market conditions which might impact product mix. We continue to expect to derive a significant portion of our net sales and profitability from the ability to drive consumers up the value-added chain of picture framing glass product offerings. Accordingly, changes in market conditions that slow or reverse recent trends in accomplishing this goal could materially reduce LSO revenues and operating results in any one year. The LSO segment results could be adversely impacted by capacity utilization. The LSO segment’s near-term growth depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to fully utilize its capacity at its production facilities, especially as we begin to increase 10 the sales volume of our highest value-added picture framing glass products. The failure to have sufficient capacity or to utilize our capacity fully when needed, or to successfully integrate and manage additional capacity in the future, could adversely affect our relationships with customers and cause customers to seek similar products from our competitors if we are unable to meet their needs, thus adversely impacting operating results. The LSO segment’s results could be adversely impacted by its ability to sell or exit its pre-framed art and wall décor product line. We made the decision to exit the pre-framed art and wall décor product line during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. The segment’s inability to complete the sale at favorable terms or exit the pre-framed art and wall décor product lines in an efficient and timely manner could have an adverse impact on the results for the Company and segment. Other Operational Risks The Auto Glass segment’s successful exit and sale is uncertain. During fiscal 2007, we decided to discontinue manufacturing automotive replacement windshields. In the fourth quarter, we also decided to exit and sell our recreational vehicle and bus glass business, the only remaining business operating in the segment. If the Company is not able to sell or exit the recreational vehicle and bus glass business in an efficient and timely manner on favorable terms to the Company, it could have an adverse impact on the results of the Company. The Company’s U.S. automotive replacement glass distribution joint venture continues to experience difficult market conditions. During fiscal 2001, the Company and PPG combined their U.S. automotive glass replacement distribution businesses into a newly formed entity, PPG Auto Glass, of which the Company maintains a 34 percent ownership interest. The automotive replacement glass market continues to experience significant reductions in prices and excess capacity as a result of a high level of imports. The joint venture has had to reduce prices dramatically, while costs have not declined proportionately. The joint venture outlined new strategies to gain back market share and reduce costs, and was able to execute against those strategies in fiscal years 2006 and 2007, which resulted in significantly better earnings. However, there are no assurances PPG Auto Glass will be able to maintain its market share or be able to maintain revenues or margins. Financial Risks Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts, company-provided guidance or investors in future periods. Our annual revenue and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: fluctuating customer demand, delay or timing of shipments, construction delays, changes in product mix or market acceptance of new products; manufacturing or operational difficulties that may arise due to quality control, capacity utilization of our production equipment or staffing requirements; and competition, including new entrants into our markets, the introduction of new products by competitors, adoption of competitive technologies by our customers and competitive pressures on prices of our products and services. Our failure to meet revenue and operating result expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Self-Insurance and Product Liability Risk We retain a high level of uninsured risk; a material claim could impact our financial results. We obtain substantial amounts of commercial insurance for potential losses for general liability, employment practice, workers’ compensation and automobile liability risk. However, an amount of risk is retained on a self-insured basis through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary. Due to changes in the cost and availability of insurance in fiscal 2003, we accepted a material increase in our risk retention from our third-party product liability and general liability coverages. We maintained this coverage for fiscal 2008, but we continue to have high deductible levels. Therefore, a material product liability event, such as a material rework event, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Environmental Regulation Risks We are subject to potential environmental, remediation and compliance risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We use hazardous chemicals in producing products at two facilities (one in our Architectural segment and one in our LSO segment). As a result, we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products, compliance with which is expensive. Our failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or increased costs. 11 Discontinued Curtainwall Operations The risks and uncertainties associated with discontinued operations could adversely impact the Company. During fiscal 1998, we made the strategic decision to close or exit our European and Asian international curtainwall operations in order to focus more selectively on higher-margin domestic curtainwall business. During fiscal 1999, we decided to sell our domestic large-scale curtainwall operation. We maintain risks associated with closing the domestic and international operations from performance bonds established with our customers and remaining warranty coverages that exist on completed projects. In addition, we face related risks and uncertainties, including the inability to effectively manage restructured business units and the inability to effectively manage costs or difficulties related to the operation of the businesses or execution of restructuring or exit activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 