ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in the Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially impair our business operations. Operational Risks Architectural Segment The Architectural segment designs, engineers, fabricates, installs, maintains and renovates the walls of glass, windows, storefront and entrances comprising the outside skin of commercial and institutional buildings. This segment has tended to lag the North American commercial construction industry cycle by approximately nine months and has traditionally outperformed its respective markets. There can be no assurance the trends experienced by the segment will continue. The Architectural segment’s markets are very competitive and actions of competitors or new market entrants could result in a loss of customers that would negatively impact revenues and earnings. The markets that the Architectural segment serves are product attribute, price and lead-time sensitive. The segment competes with several large, integrated glass manufacturers, numerous specialty, architectural glass and window fabricators, and major contractors and subcontractors. Many of our competitors have greater financial or other resources than the Company. Product capabilities, quality, pricing, warranty, service and product lead-times are the primary competitive factors in this market. Changes in our competitor’s products, prices or services could negatively impact our market share, revenues and margins. Economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the North American commercial construction industry could have an adverse impact on the profitability of this segment. There has traditionally been a lag between the general domestic economy and the commercial construction industry, and an additional approximate nine-month lag as it relates to our products and services. Our Architectural segment businesses are impacted by changes in the North American commercial construction industry, including unforeseen delays in project timing and work flow. These and other economic conditions could impact the overall commercial construction industry and may adversely impact the markets we serve, resulting in lower revenues and earnings. The Architectural segment results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance reliability problems. We manufacture and/or install products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivable, higher manufacturing or installation costs, additional warranty and service expense, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages that could negatively impact our financial results. 9 Table of Contents The Architectural results could be adversely impacted by capacity utilization and changes in technology impacting capacity utilization. The Architectural segment’s near-term growth depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to fully utilize capacity at its production facilities. The failure to have sufficient capacity or to fully utilize existing capacity when needed, or to successfully integrate and manage additional capacity in the future, could adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. Additionally, advances in product or process technologies on the part of existing or prospective competitors could have a significant impact on our ability to fully utilize our capacity and, therefore, have an adverse impact on our revenue growth and operating results. The Architectural results could be adversely impacted by installation issues. The Company’s installation and renovation business typically is awarded as a fixed price contract. Often, bids are required before all aspects of a construction project are known. An underestimate in the amount of labor required, a change in the timing of the delivery of product, difficulties in execution, or significant delays could result in failure to achieve the expected results. Any such issues could result in losses on individual contracts that could impact our operating results. Large-Scale Optical Technologies (LSO) The LSO segment develops and produces applications that enhance the visual performance of products for picture framing and commercial optics. The revenue and profitability of this segment have been inconsistent from year to year, with considerable focus put on developing the high-end mix of products sold to our customers. Since fiscal 2004, the segment transitioned away from consumer electronics and pre-framed art, and focusing its efforts to value-added picture framing products. There can be no assurance that the revenue and profitability patterns experienced by the segment will not change in the near future or that the current trend to value-added products will continue. The LSO segment is highly dependent on a relatively small number of customers for our sales. We continue to expect to derive a significant portion of our net sales from a small number of customers. Accordingly, loss of a significant customer or a significant shift to a less favorable mix of value-added picture framing glass products for one of those customers could materially reduce LSO revenues and operating results in any one year. The LSO segment is highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and economy. Our business in this segment depends on the strength of the retail picture-framing market. This market is highly dependent on consumer confidence and the conditions of the U.S. economy. We have been able to partially offset the impact of economic slowdowns in the recent past with new products, wider distribution and an increase in the mix of higher value-added picture framing products. If consumer confidence further declines, whether as a result of an economic slowdown, uncertainty regarding the future or other factors, our use of these strategies may not be as successful in the future, resulting in a potentially significant decrease in revenues and operating income. The LSO segment results could be adversely impacted by capacity utilization. The LSO segment’s near-term growth depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to utilize its production capacity, especially as we increase the sales volume of our highest value-added picture framing glass products. The failure to successfully integrate and manage additional capacity or to utilize our capacity fully when needed could adversely affect our relationships with customers and cause customers to seek similar products from our competitors if we are unable to meet their needs, thus adversely impacting operating results. Other Operational Risks The Company’s results may be adversely impacted by implementation of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. During fiscal 2008, the Company began a company-wide implementation of an ERP system to upgrade its information system technologies. The multi-year initiative will enhance internal processes, improve access to information and improve the control environment. The complexities of an ERP implementation and large-scale process changes that will be required could result in costs that exceed the project budget, business interruptions and reduced financial performance, adversely impacting operating results. The performance of the Company’s automotive replacement glass distribution joint venture is uncertain. During fiscal 2001, the Company and PPG combined their U.S. automotive glass replacement distribution businesses to form PPG Auto Glass, of which the Company maintains a 34 percent ownership interest. The markets served and the overall business environment in the autoglass replacement industry are extremely competitive with the influx of imported products. Additionally, we are subject to provisions in the joint venture agreement that restrict our ability to react quickly to changing economic and environmental factors. The results of the joint venture in this changing industry could have an adverse impact on the results of the Company. 10 Table of Contents Financial Risks Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts, company-provided guidance or investors in future periods. Our annual revenue and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: fluctuating customer demand, delay or timing of shipments, construction delays, changes in product and project mix or market acceptance of new products; manufacturing or operational difficulties that may arise due to quality control, capacity utilization of our production equipment or staffing requirements; and competition, including new entrants into our markets, the introduction of new products by competitors, adoption of competitive technologies by our customers and competitive pressures on prices of our products and services. Our failure to meet revenue and operating result expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Self-Insurance and Product Liability Risk We retain a high level of uninsured risk; a material claim could impact our financial results. We obtain substantial amounts of commercial insurance for potential losses for general liability, employment practice, workers’ compensation and automobile liability risk. However, a high amount of risk is retained on a self-insured basis through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary. Therefore, a material product liability event, such as a material rework event, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Environmental Regulation Risks We are subject to potential environmental, remediation and compliance risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We use hazardous chemicals in producing products at two facilities (one in our Architectural segment and one in our LSO segment). One facility in our Architectural segment has certain historical environmental conditions which we believe require remediation. As a result, we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products, compliance with which is expensive. Our failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or increased costs. Additionally, our ability to remediate the historical environmental conditions on the recently acquired Tubelite property at the amounts estimated as part of the purchase price allocation could have a material impact on future financial results. Discontinued Curtainwall Operations The risks and uncertainties associated with discontinued operations could adversely impact the Company. During fiscal 1998, we made the strategic decision to close or exit our European and Asian international curtainwall operations in order to focus more selectively on higher-margin domestic curtainwall business. During fiscal 1999, we decided to sell our domestic large-scale curtainwall operation. We maintain risks associated with closing the domestic and international operations from performance bonds established with our customers and remaining warranty coverages that exist on completed projects. In addition, we face related risks and uncertainties, including the inability to effectively manage restructured business units and the inability to effectively manage costs or difficulties related to the operation of the businesses or execution of restructuring or exit activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 11 Table of Contents 