Item 1A: Risk Factors We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. The demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of the industries in which we participate. A market decline in any one of these industries could have an adverse effect on our business. In 2004 and 2005, the portions of the telecommunications industry in which we participate have returned to double digit growth. However, our business was very negatively impacted by the economic slowdown and the corresponding reduction in capital spending by the telecommunications industry from 2001 to 2003. The rate at which the portions of the telecommunications industry in which we participate continue to grow is critical to our ability to improve our overall financial performance. Our customers are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers are located throughout the world and more than half of our net sales are made to customers outside of the U.S. In addition, we have many manufacturing, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S., the majority of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. and more than half of our employees are employed outside the U.S. As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (1) tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes; (2) regulations related to customs and import/export matters; (3) longer payment cycles; (4) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner; (5) currency fluctuations, particularly in the euro, Chinese renminbi and Brazilian real; (6) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (7) cultural and language differences; (8) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (9) difficulties protecting IP in foreign countries; (10) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (11) natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis and typhoons; (12) public health issues or outbreaks; and (13) the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. Many of our products that are manufactured outside of the U.S. are manufactured in Asia. In particular, we have sizeable operations in China, including manufacturing operations, and 8% of our net sales are made to customers in China. The legal system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of Chinese law. Further, if manufacturing in the region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers’ expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely affected. Occasionally, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our distributors or end-user customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer-imposed penalties on Motorola for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product’s safety or regulatory compliance, then such a “defective” product may need to be recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it can cause the Company to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss Table of Contents 20 of future orders, and the damage to the Company’s goodwill or brand/reputation. In addition, the Company may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the Company receives from the contracts. Recalls involving regulatory agencies can also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls can result in third-party litigation, including class action litigation by persons alleging common harm resulting from the purchase of the products. We operate in highly-competitive markets and our financial results will be affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The markets for our products are highly competitive with respect to, among other factors: pricing, product and service quality, and the time required to introduce new products and services. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions makes budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce demand for our products. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are uncertain. The U.S. involvement in Iraq and other global conflicts, including in the Middle East, as well as public health issues, have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted the global economy. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the world economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth in various parts of the world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies will have a significant impact on our overall performance. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts and public health issues has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by our significant investments in new products and technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. The research and development of new, technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted and are not commercially viable. In addition, products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment. If our products are not competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products, such as: seamless mobility products, advanced digital wireless handsets; CDMA2000 1X, UMTS and other advanced technologies for wireless networks; products for transmission of telephony and high-speed data over Table of Contents 21 hybrid fiber coaxial cable systems; integrated digital radios; and integrated public safety systems. These risks include: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of industry standards; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technology; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets. Our success, in part, will be affected by the ability of our wireless businesses to successfully compete in the ever-evolving markets in which we participate. We face intense competition in these markets from both established companies and new entrants. Product life cycles can be short and new products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not develop as expected, our business may be adversely impacted. We currently partner with industry leaders to meet customer product and service requirements and to develop innovative advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share the cost of developing next-generation technologies. Other partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our customers. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our business could be adversely impacted. Our business will be harmed if we are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, or if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. Because our products are comprised of complex technology, we are involved in litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, claims against us alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Also, defending these claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property rights as proprietary and attempt to protect them with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. Many of our components and products are manufactured by third parties and if third-party manufacturers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for many of the components used in our products and we rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products. If such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also have third-party arrangements for the design or manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. There is no guarantee that design wins will become actual orders and sales. A “design win” occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with the customer’s product. There can be delays of several months or more between the design win and when a customer initiates actual orders. The design win may never become an actual order or sale. Table of Contents 22 Further, if the customer’s plans change, we may commit significant resources to design wins that do not result in actual orders. We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional production risk and have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We have been reducing costs and simplifying our product portfolios in all of our businesses. We have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations and reduced our employee population. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not limited to: (1) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (2) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete; (3) delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly-regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia; (4) decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, particularly sales employees; (5) our ability to retain or recruit key employees; (6) the appropriateness of the size of our manufacturing capacity, including capacity from third parties; and (7) the performance of other parties under contract manufacturing arrangements on which we rely for the manufacture of certain products, parts and components. An important cost-reduction action has been to reduce the number of our facilities, including manufacturing facilities. All of our businesses have exited certain facilities or consolidated facilities so that our products are manufactured in fewer facilities. While we have business continuity and risk management plans in place in case capacity is significantly reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the reduced number of alternative facilities could cause the period of any manufacturing disruptions to be longer. As a result, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. We may not continue to have access to the capital markets to obtain long-term and short-term financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded. From time to time we access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that we can continue to access the capital markets in 2006 on acceptable terms and conditions, our access and the availability of acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings, (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, and (iii) the current state of the economy, including the telecommunications industry. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to the Company. Our credit ratings have been upgraded by each of the 3 major credit rating agencies during the last year. However, if our rating by Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”) were to decline two levels from the current rating, we would no longer be considered investment grade by Moody’s. As a result, our financial flexibility would be reduced and our cost of borrowing would increase. Some of the factors that impact our credit ratings, including the overall economic health of the telecommunications industry, are outside of our control. There can be no assurances that our current credit ratings will continue. Our commercial paper is rated “A-2/ P-2/ F-2.” Given the smaller size of the market for commercial paper rated “A-2/ P-2/ F-2” and the number of large commercial paper issuers in this market, commercial paper or other short-term borrowings may be unavailable or of limited availability to participants in this market. Although we continue to issue commercial paper, there can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the commercial paper markets on terms acceptable to the Company. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility if we are not able to meet the conditions to borrowing in our facility. We view our existing three-year revolving domestic credit facility as a source of available liquidity. This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We have never borrowed under this facility. However, if we wish to borrow under this facility in the Table of Contents 23 future, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain circumstances. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, the Company could be required to increase its valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in an increase in its effective tax rate and an adverse impact on future operating results. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (3) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (4) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (5) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (6) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (7) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (8) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (9) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola may be dilutive to our earnings, especially when the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near-term earnings and have, in the past, foregone certain of these acquisitions. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional, sometimes costly, retention incentives. As a supplier to the automotive industry, we face certain risks due to the nature of the automotive business. As a supplier of automotive electronics and telematics communication products, our sales of these products and our profitability could be negatively impacted by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, market share or consumer financing and rebate programs of our automotive customers. In addition, demand for our automotive products is linked to consumer demand for automobiles, which may be adversely impacted by the continuing uncertain economic environment. The value of our investments in the securities of various companies fluctuates and it may be difficult for us to realize the value of these investments. We hold a portfolio of investments in various companies. Since the majority of these securities represent investments in technology companies, the fair market values of these securities are subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the realizable value of these securities is subject to market and other conditions. We also have invested in numerous privately-held companies, many of which can still be considered in startup or developmental stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose all or substantially all of our investments in these companies, and in some cases have. Table of Contents 24 It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of highly-skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive. Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly-skilled personnel needed to compete and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly-skilled personnel. The unfavorable outcome of litigation pending against or future litigation could materially impact the Company. Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. We are subject to a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of global environmental, health and safety laws. Compliance with existing or future environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future costs, liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to hazardous substances. In the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or action regardless of fault. Motorola continues to incur disposal cost and has ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to U.S. environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Motorola. Over the last several years, the European Union (the “EU”) countries have enacted environmental laws regulating electronic products. Our products are impacted by laws that mandate the recycling of waste in electronic products sold in the EU and that will limit or prohibit the use of certain substances in electronic products beginning July 1, 2006. Other countries outside of Europe are expected to adopt similar laws. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional expenses to comply with these laws. We may provide financing and financial guarantees to our customers, some of which may be for significant amounts. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide long-term customer financing to a customer in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as well as working capital. In some circumstances, these loans can be very large. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may also provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success, particularly in our infrastructure businesses, may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers’ creditworthiness. We also provide revolving, short-term financing to certain customers and distributors that purchase our equipment. Our success may be dependent, in part, on our ability to provide this financing. Our financial results could be negatively impacted if our customers or distributors fail to repay this revolving, short-term debt and/or our sales to such customers or distributors could be reduced in the event of real or perceived issues about the credit quality of the customer or distributor. When we lend our customers money in connection with the sale of our equipment, we are at risk of not being repaid. While we have generally been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, a portion of these financings are supported directly by us. There can be higher risks of default associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, customers in developing countries, or customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the industry (such as 3G wireless operators). Should customers fail to meet their obligations on new or existing loans, losses could be incurred and such losses could negatively impact our financial results. Table of Contents 25 Our large system contracts for infrastructure equipment and the resulting reliance on large customers may negatively impact our business. We are exposed to risks due to large system contracts for infrastructure equipment and the resulting reliance on large customers. These include: (1) the technological risks of such contracts, especially when the contracts involve new technology, and (2) financial risks under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated. Political developments can impact the nature and timing of these large contracts. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance we are forced to retain the risk. The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also self-insures for some risks and obligations. Generally, costs and availability of insurance has improved recently since the disruption to the market after the events of September 11, 2001. However, there are still certain types or levels of insurance that remain unavailable. Natural disasters (hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes and floods) and certain risks arising from securities claims and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact our financial performance. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of the wireless communications industry or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries throughout the world and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal communications industry may be affected if adequate frequencies are not allocated or, alternatively, if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth has been and may continue to be affected by the cost of new licenses required to use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs. The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include Wireless Local Area Network systems such as WiFi, and Wide Area Network systems such as WiMax. Other countries have also deregulated portions of the available spectrum to allow these and other technologies, which can be offered without spectrum license costs. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers. Changes in government policies and laws or economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our operations, including in emerging markets in Asia and Latin America and in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities and war, including the Middle East. In addition, there are currently few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to, or commerce on, the Internet. We could be adversely affected by any such regulation in any country where we operate. The adoption of such measures could decrease demand for our products and at the same time increase the cost of selling such products. Consolidations in both the cable and telecommunication industries may adversely impact our business. The cable and telecommunication industries have experienced consolidation, and this trend is expected to continue according to industry estimates. Industry consolidation could result in delays of purchases by the merged companies to equipment suppliers such as Motorola and our competitors. Because of continuing consolidation within the cable industry worldwide, a small number of operators own a majority of cable television systems and account for a significant portion of the capital spending made by cable television system operators. Net sales to the Connected Home Solutions segment’s largest customer, Comcast, which merged with AT&T Broadband in 2002, represented approximately 31% of the Connected Home Solutions segment’s total net sales in 2005. Table of Contents 26 Sprint Nextel is our largest customer, representing 12% of the Company’s net sales in 2005. On August 12, 2005, Sprint Corporation and Nextel Communications, Inc. completed their merger transaction that was announced in December 2004. The combined company, Sprint Nextel, is the segment’s largest customer and Motorola has been its sole supplier of iDEN® handsets and core iDEN network infrastructure equipment for over ten years. Fewer significant customers will increase our reliance on large customers and may negatively impact our bargaining position and profit margins. The loss of, or a lesser role with, a significant customer due to industry consolidation may negatively impact our business. Regulatory changes impacting our cable products may adversely impact our business. Currently, reception of digital television programming from the cable broadband network requires a set-top box with certain technology. This security technology has limited the availability of set-top boxes to those manufactured by a few cable network manufacturers, including Motorola. The FCC enacted regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set-top boxes to increase competition and encourage the sale of set-top boxes in the retail market. Traditionally, cable service providers sold or leased the set-top box to their customer. As the retail market develops for set-top boxes and televisions capable of accepting the security modules, sales of our set-top boxes may be negatively impacted. The FCC has mandated that digital tuners to enable access to cable networks be incorporated into most television sets by 2007. Such televisions can access certain cable programming without a digital set-top box. As a result, future sales of set-top boxes may be negatively impacted. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies’ securities markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, capital spending plans of our customers, and the level of perceived growth in the industries in which we participate. We rely on third-party distributors and retailers to sell certain of our products. In addition to our own distribution force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors and retailers. Certain of our distributors market products that compete with the Company’s products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our distributors to effectively promote our products could affect the Company’s ability to bring its products to market. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors and retailers could also subject the Company to losses. The level of returns on pension and retirement plan assets could affect our earnings in future periods. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under ERISA and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the ERISA funding calculation, we could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases. Table of Contents 27 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and changes to the New York Stock Exchange rules, has required us to expend significant resources and incur additional expenses and will continue to do so. We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we will continue to invest necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities. The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 