Item 1A: Risk Factors We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. We operate in highly-competitive markets and our financial results will be affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The markets for our products are highly competitive with respect to, among other factors: pricing, product features, product and service quality, and the time required to introduce new products and services. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. The research and development of new, technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable. In addition, our products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment. If our products are not competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products, such as: advanced wireless handsets; WiMAX; 4G technologies for wireless broadband networks; products for transmission of telephony and high-speed data over hybrid fiber coaxial cable systems; integrated digital radios; and integrated public safety systems. These risks include: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of, approval and compliance with industry standards; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technology; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets. Our success, in part, will be affected by our ability to successfully compete in the ever-evolving markets in which we participate. We face intense competition in these markets from both established companies and new entrants. Product life cycles can be short and new products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our evaluation of structural and strategic realignment alternatives for our businesses may have an adverse effect on business operations and our assets. In January 2008, we announced that we are evaluating alternatives for the structural and strategic realignment of our businesses. This may include the separation of the Mobile Devices business from our other businesses. We have not determined all structural and strategic alternatives that may be available to us, whether we will elect to pursue any such strategic alternatives, or what impact any particular strategic alternative will have on our business operations or stock price if pursued. There are various uncertainties and risks relating to our exploration of structural and strategic alternatives that could have an adverse effect on our business operations or assets, including: (i) exploration of structural and strategic alternatives may distract management and disrupt operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; (ii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in increased difficulties in recruiting and retaining employees, particularly highly qualified employees; (iii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and partners and may result in the loss of business opportunities; (iv) the process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and expensive and may result in the loss of business opportunities; and (v) we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us. Table of Contents 19 We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost-reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional production risk and have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We have been reducing costs and simplifying our product portfolios in all of our businesses. We have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations, increased manufacturing with third parties and reduced our employee population. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not limited to: (i) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (ii) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete; (iii) delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly-regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia; (iv) decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees; (v) our ability to retain or recruit key employees; (vi) the adequacy of our manufacturing capacity, including capacity provided by third parties; and (vii) the performance of other parties under contract manufacturing arrangements on which we rely for the manufacture of certain products, parts and components. All of our businesses have consolidated or exited certain facilities and our products are now manufactured in fewer facilities than in the past. While we have business continuity and risk management plans in place in case capacity is significantly reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the reduced number of alternative facilities could cause the duration of any manufacturing disruption to be longer. As a result, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. The demand for our products depends on the continued growth of the industries in which we participate. A market decline in any one of these industries could have an adverse effect on our business. The rate at which the portions of the telecommunications industry in which we participate continue to grow is critical to our ability to improve our overall financial performance and we could be negatively impacted by a slowdown. Our business was very negatively impacted by the economic slowdown and the corresponding reduction in capital spending by the telecommunications industry from 2001 to 2003. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and approximately half of our net sales are made to customers outside the U.S. In addition, we have many manufacturing, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than half of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (i) tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in U.S. and non-U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards & consumer protection; (iii) longer payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner; (v) currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro, Chinese renminbi and Brazilian real; (vi) foreign exchange regulations, which may limit the Company’s ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting IP in foreign countries; (xi) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural disasters; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks; (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that adversely impact benefits being received by the Company; and (xv) the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. Many of our products that are manufactured outside the U.S. are manufactured in Asia. In particular, we have sizeable operations in China, including manufacturing operations, and 7% of our net sales are to customers in China. The legal system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of Chinese law. Further, if manufacturing in the region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. Table of Contents 20 We also are increasing our presence and/or selling more of our products in emerging markets such as India and Russia. We face challenges in emerging markets, including creating demand for our products and the negative impact of changes in the laws, or the interpretation of the laws, in those countries. Changes in our development activities, operations or sales in non-U.S. markets could result in lost benefits and increase our cost of doing business. The Company has entered into various agreements with non-U.S. governments, agencies, or similar organizations under which the Company receives certain benefits relating to its development activities, operations and/or sales in the jurisdiction. If the Company’s circumstances change or development activities, sales or operations are not at levels originally anticipated, the Company may be at risk of losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers’ expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely affected. Occasionally, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, distributors or end-users, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer-imposed penalties on Motorola for failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product’s safety or regulatory compliance, then such a “defective” product may need to be recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it can cause the Company to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders, and the damage to the Company’s goodwill or brand/reputation. In addition, the Company may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the Company receives from the contracts. Recalls involving regulatory agencies can also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls can result in third-party litigation, including class action litigation by persons alleging common harm resulting from the purchase of the products. If the volume of our sales decrease or do not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs that may make our products less competitive. We have negotiated favorable pricing terms with many of our suppliers, some of which have volume-based pricing. In the case of volume-based pricing arrangements, we may experience higher than anticipated costs if current volume-based purchase projections are not met. Some contracts have minimum purchase commitments and we may incur large financial penalties if these commitments are not met. We also may have unused production capacity if our current volume projections are not met, increasing our cost of production. In the future, as we establish new pricing terms, our volume demand could adversely impact future pricing from suppliers. All of these outcomes may result in our products being more costly to manufacture and less competitive. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions makes budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce demand for our products. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are uncertain. The U.S. involvement in Iraq and other global conflicts, including in the Middle East, as well as public health issues, have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted the global economy. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the world economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth in various parts of the world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult. We have sizable manufacturing operations and engineering resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in the region. We also sell our products and services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products and services could be adversely impacted by hostilities. Table of Contents 21 The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies will have a significant impact on our overall performance. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts and public health issues has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not develop as expected, our business may be adversely impacted. We currently partner with industry leaders to meet customer product and service requirements and to develop innovative advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share the cost of developing next-generation technologies. Other partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our customers. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on third-party distributors, representatives and retailers to sell certain of our products. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. Certain of our distributors or representatives may also market other products that compete with our products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect our ability to bring its products to market. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and/or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, (ii) if the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) if we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, or (iv) if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. Because our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a supplier’s indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by Motorola and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier may choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non-infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, Motorola may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may adversely impact Motorola’s sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the supplier’s products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks Motorola products from importation into the U.S. Table of Contents 22 In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them. Because our customers often derive much larger revenue streams by reselling or leasing our products than we generate from the same products, these indemnity claims by our customers have the potential to expose us to damages that are much higher than we would be exposed to if we were sued directly. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property rights as proprietary and attempt to protect them with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in our longer-standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Our future operating results may be negatively impacted if we are not successful in licensing our intellectual property. As part of the business strategy of some of our business segments, primarily our Mobile Devices business, we generate revenue through the licensing of intellectual property rights. The licensed rights include those that are essential to telecommunications standards, such as the GSM standard. Previously agreed-upon terms of some of our long-standing license agreements and the aging of our essential patent portfolio have reduced our royalty revenue over the past several years and are likely to continue to reduce that revenue. Uncertainty in the legal environment makes it difficult to assure that we will be able to enter into new license agreements that will be sufficient to offset that reduction in our revenue. Many of our components and products are designed or manufactured by third parties and if third-party manufacturers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for many of the components used in our products and we rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products. If we are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also have third-party arrangements for the design or manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If we are not able to engage such parties with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. There is no guarantee that design wins will become actual orders and sales. A “design win” occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with the customer’s product. There can be delays of several months or more between the design win and when a customer initiates actual orders. The design win may never become an actual order or sale. Further, if the customer’s plans change, we may commit significant resources to design wins that do not result in actual orders. If design wins do not result in actual sales, our business could be adversely affected. We may not continue to have access to the capital markets to obtain long-term and short-term financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded. From time to time we access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that we can continue to access the capital markets in 2008 on acceptable terms and conditions, our access and the availability of acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings, which have been lowered in 2007 and 2008; (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, which has Table of Contents 23 been negatively impacted by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage situation; and (iii) the current state of the economy, including the telecommunications industry. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. Our debt ratings are considered “investment grade.” If our credit ratings were to decline two levels from the current Fitch and S&P ratings, the Company’s long-term debt would no longer be considered investment grade and our financial flexibility would be reduced and our cost of borrowing would increase. Some of the factors that impact our credit ratings, including the overall economic health of the telecommunications industry and the U.S. economy, are outside of our control. There can be no assurances that our current credit ratings will continue. Our commercial paper is rated “A-2/P-2/F-2.” Our A-2 and F-2 ratings include a “watch negative.” Although we currently have access to the commercial paper markets, there can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the commercial paper markets on terms acceptable to us. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility if we are not able to meet the conditions to borrowing in our facility. We view our existing five-year revolving domestic credit facility as a source of available liquidity. This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We have never borrowed under this facility or previous domestic revolving credit facilities. However, if we wish to borrow under this facility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (iii) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (iv) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (v) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (vii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (viii) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola may be dilutive to our earnings, especially when the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near-term earnings and have, in the past, foregone certain of these acquisitions. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity- based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees. Our future operating results may be negatively impacted if we do not execute a successful silicon and software strategy for our Mobile Devices business. As part of our ongoing effort to improve the product portfolio of our Mobile Devices business, we are in the process of transitioning our silicon and software platforms to lower our cost to produce devices and to enable richer consumer experiences. Failure to execute this transition in a timely and effective manner may cause us to be competitively disadvantaged in many areas, including but not limited to, cost, time to market and the ability to ramp-up production in a timely fashion with acceptable quality and improved/additional features. Table of Contents 24 The value of our investments in the securities of various companies fluctuates and it may be difficult for us to realize the value of these investments. We hold a portfolio of investments in various companies. Since the majority of these securities represent investments in technology companies, the fair market values of these securities are subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the realizable value of these securities is subject to market and other conditions. We also have invested in numerous privately-held companies, many of which can still be considered in startup or developmental stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose all or substantially all of the value of our investments in these companies, and in some cases have. The Sigma Fund, an investment fund owned by the Company, holds U.S. Dollar-denominated debt obligations which include corporate bonds and asset- and mortgage-backed securities. The fair value of these holdings may experience temporary or other-than-temporary declines due to the widening credit spreads in several debt market segments and impairment if the underlying debtor should default on its obligations. If we are unable to purchase sufficient credit insurance, our business may be negatively impacted. We purchase a large amount of credit insurance to mitigate some of our credit risks. Our ability to sell certain of our receivables could be negatively impacted if we are not able to continue to purchase credit insurance in certain countries and in sufficient quantities. In addition, our success in certain countries may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient credit insurance. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of highly-skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive. Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly-skilled personnel needed to compete and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly-skilled personnel. In particular, we may have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly-skilled personnel during periods of poor operating performance. The unfavorable outcome of litigation pending or future litigation could materially impact the Company. Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of global laws. Compliance with existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to hazardous substances. In the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or action regardless of fault. Motorola continues to incur disposal costs and has ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to U.S. environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Motorola. Over the last several years, laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; and reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products have expanded significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, sound levels of music playing devices, and other aspects are also proliferating. These laws impact our products and make it more expensive to manufacture and sell product. It may also be difficult to comply with the laws in a timely way and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, thereby impacting our sales and profitability. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain hazardous constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Table of Contents 25 We may provide financing and financial guarantees to our customers, some of which may be for significant amounts. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide long-term customer financing to a customer in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services. In some circumstances, these loans, leases and extended payment terms can be very large. We also provide revolving, short-term financing to certain customers and distributors that purchase our equipment. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may also provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success, particularly in our infrastructure businesses, may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers’ creditworthiness. While we have generally been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, a portion of these financings are supported directly by us. There can be higher risks of default associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, customers in developing countries, or customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the industry (such as 3G wireless operators). Should customers fail to meet their obligations on new or existing loans, losses could be incurred and such losses could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, our sales to such customers or distributors could be reduced in the event of real or perceived issues about the credit quality of the customer or distributor. We are exposed to risks under large multi-year system contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large multi-year system contracts with large customers. This exposes us to risks, including: (i) the technological risks of such contracts, especially when the contracts involve new technology, and (ii) financial risks under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated. Political developments also can impact the nature and timing of these large contracts. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance we are forced to retain the risk. The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also self-insures for some risks and obligations. The insurance market was disrupted after the events of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 hurricanes. While the cost and availability of most insurance has stabilized, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain unavailable. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact our financial performance. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of the wireless communications industry or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal communications industry may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for wireless communication users, especially in urban areas, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth has been and may continue to be affected by the cost of new licenses required to use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs. The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies, which can be offered without spectrum license costs. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers. Changes in government policies and laws or economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities and war, including the Middle East. Table of Contents 26 In addition, the laws and regulations that apply directly to access to, or commerce on, the Internet are still evolving. We could be adversely affected by any such regulation in any country where we operate. The adoption of such measures could decrease demand for our products and at the same time increase the cost of selling such products. Consolidations in both the cable and telecommunication industries may adversely impact our business. The cable and telecommunication industries have experienced consolidation and this trend is expected to continue according to industry estimates. Industry consolidation could result in delays of purchases or in the selection of new suppliers by the merged companies. This could adversely effect equipment suppliers like Motorola and our competitors. Due to continuing consolidation within the cable and telecommunications industries worldwide, a small number of operators own a majority of cable television systems and account for a significant portion of the capital spending made by cable telecommunications systems operators. Recent FCC regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set-tops could negatively impact our sales of set-tops. Historically, reception of digital television programming from a cable broadband network has required a set-top with security technology. As a result, sourcing of these set-tops was traditionally limited to a few cable network manufacturers, including Motorola. FCC regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set-tops that are aimed to increase competition and encourage the sale of set-tops in the retail market became effective for most customers on July 1, 2007. Traditionally, cable service providers sold or leased the set-top to their customer. As the retail market develops for set-tops and televisions capable of accepting the security modules, sales of our set-tops may be negatively impacted. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks some of which are within Motorola and some are outsourced. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies’ securities markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, capital spending plans of our customers, and the level of perceived growth in the industries in which we participate. The level of returns on pension and retirement plan assets could affect our earnings in future periods. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations we could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases. The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS could impact our financial results. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to Table of Contents 27 determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. We face risks related to ongoing patent-related disputes between Qualcomm and Broadcom. Motorola is a purchaser of CDMA EV-DO baseband processor chips and chipsets from Qualcomm Incorporated (“Qualcomm”), and we recently announced an intention to design certain of Qualcomm’s W-CDMA chipsets into certain of our 3G handsets. Qualcomm and Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”) are engaged in several patent-related legal actions. In certain of these actions, Broadcom is seeking orders to ban the importation into the U.S. of Qualcomm’s infringing EV-DO and W-CDMA baseband processor chipsets and certain “downstream” products that contain them (including Motorola handsets) and/or limit Qualcomm’s ability to provide certain services and products in the U.S. relating to such infringing chipsets. A final outcome adverse to Qualcomm in any of the patent-related legal actions could have a material adverse impact on Motorola’s performance by making it difficult, more expensive or impossible for Motorola to make and/or import products destined for the U.S. market that use certain infringing Qualcomm chipsets. While we continue to work with Qualcomm and others on contingency plans relating to these cases, there is no guarantee that such plans will prove successful or avoid further legal challenge. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 