Item 1A. Risk Factors The following summarizes, in no particular order, certain risks which could harm the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. No such list can be comprehensive or predict in detail exactly which of the challenges listed below could occur. All statements other than statements of historic fact in each of the Company’s public announcements and filings with the SEC are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. securities laws and should be read in the light of these risk factors. The Company may experience difficulty obtaining materials or components for its products. The Company purchases significant components of its products from third party suppliers. Some of these suppliers compete with the Company on some level. Other materials and components may be provided by a limited number of suppliers or by sole sources and could only be replaced with difficulty or significant added cost. The Company may experience difficulties obtaining the services of skilled employees. The Company relies on knowledgeable, experienced and skilled technical personnel, particularly engineers, account executives, and service personnel, to design, assemble and sell its products. The sales process is iterative and consultative in key product lines of the Company’s business. The Company also requires capable senior executives to lead the business and may be unable to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of such people. The Company may not achieve its growth plans for the expansion of the business. The Company’s long-term success depends on its ability to expand the business through (a) new product development, (b) mergers and acquisitions or (c) geographic expansion. New product development requires that the Company maintain its ability to enhance and improve existing products, to continue to bring innovative products to market in a timely fashion and to adapt products to the needs and standards of current and potential customers. The Company’s products and services may become less competitive or eclipsed by technologies to which the Company does not have access or which render its solutions obsolete. Mergers and acquisitions will be accompanied by risks which may include: • difficulties identifying suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable costs; • unavailability of capital to conduct acquisitions; • failure to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management from the ongoing business; • dilution of existing stockholders and earnings per share; • unanticipated, undisclosed or inaccurately assessed liabilities, legal risks and costs; and • difficulties retaining key vendors, customers or employees of the acquired business. Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the U.S. will increase the Company’s exposure to the risks of international operations discussed herein. Geographic expansion will be primarily outside of the United States, and hence will be disproportionately subject to the risks of international operations discussed herein. The Company’s is significantly international in scope, which poses multiple unique risks. Sales outside of the United States, including export sales from U.S. businesses, accounted for approximately two-thirds of the net sales in fiscal 2007. Accordingly, the Company’s business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries. These risks include: • exposure to the risk of currency value fluctuations, where payment for products is denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars; 7 Table of Contents • variability in the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated assets, earnings and cash flows; • difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; • higher danger of terrorist activity, war or civil unrest, relative to domestic operations; • imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult; • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where the Company operates, particularly in emerging markets. The business could be adversely affected by product liability and commercial litigation. The Company’s products may be asserted to cause or contribute to personal injury or property damage to its customers or their employees. Additionally, the Company is, from time to time, involved in various kinds of commercial disputes with customers, vendors and others. The ensuing claims may arise singularly, in groups of related claims, or in class actions involving multiple claimants. Such claims and litigation are frequently expensive and time-consuming to resolve, may result in substantial liability to the Company, and may be in excess of available sources of insurance or other forms of reimbursement. Government regulation could impose significant costs and other constraints. The Company’s manufacturing operations and past and present ownership and operations of real property are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws pertaining to the handling or discharge of hazardous materials into the environment. The Company expects to continue to incur costs to comply with these laws, and may incur penalties for any failure to do so. The Company may also be identified as a responsible party and be subject to liability relating to any investigation and clean-up of properties used for industrial purposes or the generation or disposal of hazardous substances. Some of the Company’s export sales require approval from the U.S. government. Changes in political relations between the U.S. and foreign countries and/or specific potential customers for which export licenses may be required, may cause a license application to be delayed or denied, or a previously issued license withdrawn, rendering the Company unable to complete a sale, or vulnerable to competitors who do not operate under such restrictions. The Company may fail to protect its intellectual property effectively, or may infringe upon the intellectual property of others. The Company relies on trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent laws and contractual protections to protect its proprietary technology and other proprietary rights. The Company’s competitors may attempt to copy its products or gain access to its trade secrets. Notwithstanding the precautions taken by the Company to protect its intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may illegally copy or otherwise obtain and use its proprietary technology without the Company’s consent. Any litigation concerning infringement could result in substantial cost and diversions of the Company’s resources, either of which could adversely affect the business. In some cases, there may be no effective legal recourse against duplication of products or services by competitors. Intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions may be limited or unavailable. Patents of third parties also have an important bearing on the Company’s ability to offer some of its products and services. The Company’s competitors may obtain patents related to the types of products and services the Company currently offers or plans to offer. Any infringement by the Company on intellectual property rights of others could result in litigation and adversely affect its ability to continue to provide, or could increase the cost of providing, products and services. The sales, delivery and acceptance cycle for many of the Company’s products is irregular and may not develop as anticipated. Many of the Company’s products have a long sales, delivery and acceptance cycle. Events may cause recognition of orders, backlog and results of operations to be aberrant over shorter periods of time. These factors include the timing of individual large fixed price orders, delays in product readiness, damage or delays in transit, problems in achieving promised results, and various customer-initiated delays. Any such delay may cause fluctuation in the Company’s reported periodic financial results. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s customers are in cyclical industries. The Company’s orders are subject to customers’ procurement cycles and ability to invest capital, especially in the cyclical automotive, aircraft and machine tool industries. Any event which adversely impacts those customers’ new product development activities may reduce their demand for the Company’s products. The Company’s business is subject to intense competition. The Company’s products are sold in competitive markets throughout the world. Competition is based on application knowledge, product features and design, brand recognition, reliability, technology, breadth of product offerings, price, customer relationships, and after-sale service. If the Company is not perceived as competitive in overall value measured by these criteria, its customers may choose solutions offered by its competitors or developed internally. Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect results. Significant changes in interest rates may affect the Company’s business in several contradictory ways, depending on the Company’s financial position.The Company may, in the future, use debt to finance the growth of the business through acquisitions or to finance working capital needs. Fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs. Increases in short-term interest rates will directly impact the amount of interest the Company’s is required to pay and reduce earnings accordingly. Conversely, lower interest rates will adversely impact the interest the Company earns on cash and short term investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 