Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important risk factors, among others, could affect the Company’s actual results in the future and could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results, or cash provided by operations: Possible significant volatility in backlog and/or quarterly operating results may result from the timing of individual large, fixed-price orders in connection with sales of Test segment systems. Order volumes and other operating considerations may be directly or indirectly impacted by economic conditions generally and/or in various geographic areas in which the Company operates. The Company derives significant revenue from the global ground vehicles and aerospace industries, and therefore is subject to economic cycles affecting these customers. Export controls based on U.S. initiatives and foreign policy, as well as import controls imposed by foreign governments, may cause delays in certain shipments or the rejection of orders by the Company. Such delays could create material fluctuations in quarterly operating results and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Local political conditions and/or currency restrictions may also affect foreign revenue. Delays in realization of orders in backlog may occur due to technical difficulties, export licensing approval, or the customer’s preparation of the installation site, any of which can affect the quarterly or annual period when backlog is recognized as revenue and could materially affect the results of any such period. The Company experiences competition on a worldwide basis. Customers may choose to purchase equipment from the Company or from its competitors. For certain of the Company’s products, customers may contract with testing laboratories or construct their own testing equipment from commercially available components. Factors that may influence a customer’s decision include price, service, and required level of technology. The Company operates internationally and thus is subject to foreign currency exchange rate changes, which can affect its results from operations and financial condition. With regard to the Company’s new product developments, there may be uncertainties concerning the expected results. In addition, the Company may not be aware of the introduction of new products or product enhancements by its competitors. The Company’s short-term investments and borrowings carry floating interest rate risk. The Company has minimal earnings and cash flow exposure due to market risks on its long-term debt obligations as a result of the primarily fixed-rate nature of its debt. The Company relies on various raw material, component, and sub-assembly suppliers in its production processes and as such, business interruptions affecting these suppliers may cause delays in the Company’s ability to convert its backlog of unfilled orders to revenue. 8 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 