ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements Certain statements in this Form 10-K contain or may contain forward‑looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied, by these forward‑looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and often contain words such as "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should," "could," "anticipate," "plan" or similar words. Forward‑looking statements are based on various assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward‑looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain normal trade terms with vendors, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to comply with the various covenant requirements contained in the Company's Revolving Credit Facility, the demand for apparel and other factors. The demand for apparel and sales volume can be affected by significant changes in economic conditions, including an economic downturn, employment levels in the Company's markets, consumer confidence, energy and gasoline prices, and other factors influencing discretionary consumer spending. Other factors affecting the demand for apparel and sales volume include unusual weather patterns, an increase in the level of competition in the Company's market areas, competitors' marketing strategies, changes in fashion trends, changes in the average cost of merchandise purchased for resale, availability of merchandise on normal payment terms and the failure to achieve the expected results of the Company's merchandising and marketing plans as well as its store opening plans. The occurrence of any of these factors could have a material and adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity. Most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond the Company's control. Readers should carefully review this Form 10-K in its entirety, including but not limited to the Company's financial statements and the accompanying notes, and the risks and uncertainties described in this Item 1A. Readers should consider the risks and uncertainties described in any forward-looking statement contained in this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are made as of the date of this Form 10-K. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. 10 Table of contents Described below are certain risk factors that management believes are applicable to the Company's business and the industry in which it operates. There may also be additional risks that are presently not material or are unknown. An economic downturn or decline in consumer confidence could negatively impact the Company's business and financial condition. The Company's results of operations are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions that impact consumer discretionary spending, such as employment levels, taxes, energy and gasoline prices and other factors influencing consumer confidence. The Company has extensive operations in the South Central, Southeastern and Mid Atlantic states. In addition, many stores are located in small towns and rural environments that are substantially dependent upon the local economy. If there is an economic downturn or decline in consumer confidence, particularly in the South Central, Southeastern and Mid Atlantic states and any state (such as Texas or Louisiana) from which the Company derives a significant portion of its net sales, the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows will be negatively impacted and such impact could be material. There can be no assurance that the Company's liquidity will not be affected by changes in economic conditions. Recent economic conditions have not had, nor does the Company anticipate that current economic conditions will have, a significant impact on its liquidity. Due to the Company's significant operating cash flow and availability under its Revolving Credit Facility, the Company continues to believe that it has the ability to meet its financing needs for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that the Company's liquidity will not be materially and adversely affected by changes in economic conditions. The Company faces the risk of significant competition in the retail apparel industry which could result in the loss of customers and adversely affect revenues. The retail apparel business is highly competitive. Although competition varies widely from market to market, the Company faces the risk of increased competition, particularly in its more highly populated markets from national, regional and local department and specialty stores. Some of its competitors are considerably larger than the Company and have substantially greater resources. Although the Company offers a unique product mix and brands that are not available at certain other retailers, including regional and national department stores, there is no assurance that the Company's existing or new competitors will not carry similar branded merchandise in the future. This could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to traditional store-based retailers, the Company also faces competition from the Internet business, which could materially affect its revenues and profitability. The Company's failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences in a timely manner could adversely affect its operations. The Company's success depends, in part, upon its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. The Company attempts to stay abreast of emerging lifestyles and consumer preferences affecting its merchandise. However, any sustained failure on the Company's part to identify and respond to such trends could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. The Company is highly dependent upon cash flows and net earnings generated during the fourth quarter, which includes the holiday season. The Company's business is seasonal and sales are traditionally lower during the first three quarters of the fiscal year (February through October) and higher during the last quarter of the fiscal year (November through January). The fourth quarter usually accounts for slightly more than 30% of the Company's annual sales, with the other quarters accounting for approximately 22% to 24% each. Working capital requirements fluctuate during the year as well and generally reach their highest levels during the third and fourth quarters. Unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could negatively impact the Company's financial condition. The Company's business depends, in part, on normal weather patterns across the Company's markets. The Company is susceptible to unseasonable or extreme weather conditions, including natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tornadoes in its markets. Any such unusual or prolonged weather patterns in the Company's markets, especially in states such as Texas and Louisiana, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could have a material and adverse impact on its business, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the Company's business, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected if the businesses of our key vendors and their merchandise manufacturers, shippers, carriers and other merchandise transportation service providers, especially those outside the United States, are disrupted due to severe weather, such as, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes or floods, whether due to climate change or otherwise. 11 Table of contents War, acts of terrorism, Mexican border violence, public health issues and natural disasters may create uncertainty and could result in reduced revenues. The Company cannot predict, with any degree of certainty, what effect, if any, war, acts of terrorism, Mexican border violence, public health issues and natural disasters, if any, will have on the Company, its operations, the other risk factors discussed herein and the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this Form 10-K. However, the consequences of these events could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. Government laws and regulations could adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. The Company, like other businesses, is subject to various federal, state and local government laws and regulations including, but not limited to, tax laws. These may change periodically in response to economic or political conditions. The Company cannot predict whether existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or as reinterpreted in the future, or future laws and regulations, could materially and adversely affect the results of its operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company's failure in the pursuit or execution of new acquisitions or strategic expansion could adversely affect its business. The success of the Company's expansion strategy depends upon many factors, including its ability to obtain suitable sites for new stores at acceptable costs, to hire, train and retain qualified personnel and to integrate new stores into existing information systems and operations. The Company cannot guarantee that it will reach its targets for opening new stores or that such stores, including those opened through acquisition, will operate profitably when opened. Failure to effectively implement its expansion strategy could have a material and adverse effect on its business, financial condition and cash flows. The Company's failure to obtain merchandise product on normal trade terms and/or its inability to pass on any price increases related to its merchandise could adversely impact its business, financial condition and cash flows. The Company is highly dependent on obtaining merchandise product on normal trade terms. Failure to meet its performance objectives could cause key vendors and factors to become more restrictive in granting trade credit. The tightening of credit, such as a reduction in the Company's lines of credit or payment terms from the vendor or factor community, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. The Company is also highly dependent on obtaining merchandise at competitive and predictable prices. In the event the Company experiences rising prices related to its merchandise, whether due to cost of materials, inflation, transportation costs, or otherwise, and it is unable pass on those rising prices to its customers, its business, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected. A catastrophic event adversely affecting any of the Company's buying, distribution or other corporate facilities could result in reduced revenues and loss of customers. The Company's buying, distribution and other corporate operations are in highly centralized locations. The Company's operations could be materially and adversely affected if a catastrophic event (such as, but not limited to, fire, hurricanes, tornadoes or floods) impacts the use of these facilities. While the Company has developed contingency plans that would be implemented in the event of a catastrophic event, there are no assurances that the Company would be successful in obtaining alternative servicing facilities in a timely manner in the event of such a catastrophe. A disruption of the Company's information technology systems could have a material adverse impact on its business and financial condition. The Company is heavily dependent on its information technology systems for day to day business operations. In addition, as part of the Company's normal course of business, it collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential customer information. Today's information technology risks are largely external and their consequences could affect the entire Company. Potential risks include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) an intrusion by a hacker, (ii) the introduction of malware (virus, Trojan, spyware), (iii) hardware failure, (iv) outages due to software defects and (v) human error. Although the Company runs anti-virus and anti-spyware software and takes other steps to ensure that its information technology systems will not be disabled or otherwise disrupted, there are no assurances that disruptions will not occur. The consequences of a disruption, depending on the severity, could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business and financial condition and could expose the Company to civil, regulatory and industry actions and possible judgments, fees and fines. A security breach that results in unauthorized disclosure of the Company, employee or customer information could adversely impact the Company's business, reputation and financial condition. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the Company. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other 12 Table of contents unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee or company information could severely damage the Company's reputation, expose it to the risks of legal proceedings, disrupt its operations and otherwise adversely affect the Company's business and financial condition. While the Company has taken significant steps to protect confidential information, there is no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments will prevent the compromise of customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. If any such compromise of the Company's information security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The Company's failure to successfully operate its eCommerce website or fulfill customer expectations could adversely impact the Company's business and sales. The Company's eCommerce platform provides another channel to generate sales. The Company believes that the website will drive incremental sales, provide existing customers the on-line shopping experience and also provide the opportunity to introduce the Company to a new customer base. If the Company does not successfully meet the challenges of operating a website or fulfilling customer expectations, the Company's business and sales could be adversely affected. Covenants in the Company's Revolving Credit Facility agreement may impose operating restrictions, impede or adversely affect the Company's ability to pay dividends or repurchase common shares and raise capital through the sale of stock and other securities. The Company's Revolving Credit Facility agreement contains covenants which, among other things, restrict (i) the amount of additional debt or capital lease obligations, (ii) the payment of dividends and repurchase of common stock under certain circumstances and (iii) related party transactions. In addition, any material or adverse developments affecting the Company's business could significantly limit its ability to meet its obligations as they become due or to comply with the various covenant requirements contained in the Company's Revolving Credit Facility agreement. The inability or unwillingness of one or more lenders to fund their commitment under the Company's Revolving Credit Facility could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and financial condition. The Company's Revolving Credit Facility, which matures on June 30, 2016, is a $250.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility that includes an uncommitted accordion feature to increase the size of the facility to $350.0 million. The Revolving Credit Facility is used by the Company to provide financing for working capital, capital expenditures, interest payments and other general corporate purposes, as well as to support its outstanding letters of credit requirements. The lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility are as follows: Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Regions Bank (collectively, the "Lenders"). Notwithstanding that the Company may be in full compliance with all covenants contained in the Revolving Credit Facility, the inability or unwillingness of one or more of those lenders to fund their commitment under the Company's Revolving Credit Facility could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and financial condition unless the Lenders or another lender covered any shortfall. If the Company's trademarks are successfully challenged, the outcome of those disputes could require the Company to abandon one or more of its trademarks. The Company regards its trademarks and their protection as important to its success. However, the Company cannot be sure that any trademark held by it will give it a competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Although the Company intends to vigorously protect its trademarks, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity and prevent infringement of trademarks can be substantial and the outcome of those disputes could require the Company to abandon one or more of its trademarks. Risks associated with the Company's carriers, shippers and other providers of merchandise transportation services could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. The Company's vendors rely on shippers, carriers and other merchandise transportation service providers (collectively "Transportation Providers") to deliver merchandise from their manufacturers, both in the United States and abroad, to the vendors' distribution centers in the United States. Transportation Providers are also responsible for transporting merchandise from their vendors' distribution centers to the Company's distribution centers. The Company also relies on Transportation Providers to transport merchandise from its distribution centers to its stores and to its customers in the case of eCommerce sales. However, if work slowdowns, stoppages, weather or other disruptions affect the transportation of merchandise between the vendors and their manufacturers, especially those manufacturers outside the United States, between the vendors and the Company, or between the Company and its eCommerce customers, the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 13 Table of contents Risks associated with the Company's vendors from whom its products are sourced could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. The Company's merchandise is sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors. All of the Company's vendors must comply with applicable laws, including the Company's required standards of conduct. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, the ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms and the financial viability of its vendors are beyond the Company's control and could adversely impact its performance. The Company's failure to attract, develop and retain qualified employees could deteriorate the results of its operations. The Company's performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large and growing number of employees. The Company believes that its competitive advantage is providing well-trained and motivated sales associates in order to provide customers exceptional customer service. The Company's success depends in part upon its ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified associates, including store, service and administrative personnel. The Company's failure to successfully implement Steele's could adversely impact the Company's business and financial condition. In November 2011, the Company launched Steele's, its off-price concept for small town America. As of February 2, 2013, the Company had opened 34 Steele's stores in 7 states. While the Company's research indicates that there is significant growth potential in the under-served small market off-price niche and while the Company believes that its solid balance sheet and strong cash flows provide it with the financial flexibility to accelerate its growth with the launch of Steele's, there can be no assurance that Steele's will be successful. The Company's failure to successfully implement Steele's could adversely impact the Company's business and financial condition. The South Hill Consolidation could adversely impact the Company's business and financial condition and may not produce the operating efficiencies and cost savings expected. On February 11, 2013, the Company announced its plans to consolidate its South Hill operations into its Houston corporate headquarters. While the Company expects that the South Hill Consolidation will increase productivity, create synergies, strengthen collaboration, enhance the Company's purchasing power, accelerate sales growth and result in annual cost savings, it may not produce the operating efficiencies and cost savings expected and actual results achieved may differ materially from the Company's assumptions and forecasts. The South Hill Consolidation and the Company's failure to effectively integrate its buying activities and optimize its merchandising, marketing and eCommerce activities could adversely impact the Company's business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 