ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements Certain statements in this Form 10-K contain or may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements were based on various factors and were derived utilizing numerous assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain normal trade terms with vendors, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to comply with the various covenant requirements contained in the Company's Revolving Credit Facility, the demand for apparel and other factors. The demand for apparel and sales volume can be affected by significant changes in economic conditions, including an economic downturn, employment levels in the Company’s markets, consumer confidence, energy and gasoline prices, and other factors influencing discretionary consumer spending. Other factors affecting the demand for apparel and sales volume include unusual weather patterns, an increase in the level of competition in the Company's market areas, competitors' marketing strategies, changes in fashion trends, changes in the average cost of merchandise purchased for resale, availability of product on normal payment terms and the failure to achieve the expected results of the Company's merchandising and marketing plans as well as its store opening plans. The occurrence of any of the above could have a material and adverse impact on the Company's operating results. Most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond the Company's control. Readers should consider the areas of risk described in connection with any forward-looking statements that may be made in this Form 10-K. Readers should carefully review the Form 10-K in its entirety, including but not limited to the Company's financial statements and the notes thereto and the risks described in this Item 1A. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. For any forward-looking statements contained in any document, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 10 Table of Contents The Company faces the risk of a highly competitive retail apparel industry, which may result in the loss of customers, increased spending on marketing and advertising and reduced revenues. The retail apparel business is highly competitive. Although competition varies widely from market to market, the Company faces the risk of increased competition, particularly in its more highly populated markets from national, regional and local department and specialty stores. Some of the Company's competitors are considerably larger than the Company and have substantially greater financial and other resources. Although the Company offers brands that are not available at certain other retailers, including regional and national department stores, there can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not carry similar branded merchandise in the future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. An economic downturn, decline in consumer confidence or unusual weather patterns could negatively impact the Company's business and financial condition. A substantial portion of the Company's operations is located in the South Central and Mid-Atlantic states. In addition, many of the Company's stores are situated in small towns and rural environments that are substantially dependent upon the local economy. The retail apparel business is dependent upon the level of consumer spending, which may be adversely affected by an economic downturn, or a decline in consumer confidence, employment levels in the Company’s markets, energy and gasoline prices and other factors influencing discretionary consumer spending. An economic downturn or decline in consumer confidence, particularly in the South Central and Mid-Atlantic states and any state (such as Texas or Louisiana) from which the Company derives a significant portion of its net sales, could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows, including affecting demand for the Company's products. The Company's success depends, in part, upon its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. Although the Company attempts to stay abreast of emerging lifestyles and consumer preferences affecting its merchandise, any sustained failure by the Company to identify and respond to such trends could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. The Company's business is seasonal and sales traditionally are lower during the first three quarters of the fiscal year (February through October) and higher during the last quarter of the fiscal year (November through January). The fourth quarter usually accounts for slightly more than 30% of the Company's annual sales, with the other quarters accounting for approximately 22% to 24% each. Working capital requirements fluctuate during the year as well and generally reach their highest levels during the third and fourth quarters. The Company's business depends, in part, on normal weather patterns across its markets. Any unusual weather patterns in the Company's markets can have a material and adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. War, acts of terrorism, public health issues and natural disasters may create uncertainty and may result in reduced revenues. The Company cannot predict, with any degree of certainty, what effect, if any, war, acts of terrorism, public health issues and natural disasters, if any, will have on the Company, its operations, the other risk factors discussed herein and the forward-looking statements made by the Company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, the consequences of these events could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. Government laws and regulations could adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and cash flows. The Company, like other businesses, is subject to various federal, state and local government laws and regulations including, but not limited to, tax laws, which may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. The Company cannot predict whether existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or as reinterpreted in the future, or future laws and regulations, could materially and adversely affect the results of its operations, financial condition and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents The Company cannot guarantee that it will reach its targets for opening new stores or that the new stores, including those opened through acquisition, will operate profitably when opened. The success of the Company's expansion strategy depends upon many factors, including the ability of the Company to obtain suitable sites for new stores at acceptable costs, to hire, train and retain qualified personnel and to integrate new stores into existing information systems and operations. The Company cannot guarantee that it will reach its targets for opening new stores or that such stores, including those opened through acquisition, will operate profitably when opened. If the Company fails to effectively implement its expansion strategy, it could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. If the Company is not able to obtain merchandise product on normal trade terms, its business, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. The Company is highly dependent on obtaining merchandise product on normal trade terms. If the Company does not meet its performance objectives, the Company's key vendors and factors may become more restrictive in granting trade credit by either reducing the Company's credit lines or shortening payment terms. The tightening of credit from the vendor or factor community could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and cash flows. A catastrophic event affecting any of the Company's buying, distribution or other corporate operations could adversely impact the use of those facilities and could result in reduced revenues and loss of customers. The Company's buying, distribution and other corporate operations are in highly centralized locations. The Company's operations could be materially and adversely affected if a catastrophic event (such as, but not limited to, fire, hurricanes or floods) impacts the use of these facilities. There can be no assurances that the Company would be successful in obtaining alternative servicing facilities in a timely manner if such a catastrophic event should occur. A disruption of the Company’s information technology systems could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. The Company is heavily dependent on its information technology systems for day to day business operations. In addition, as part of the Company's normal course of business, it collects processes and retains sensitive and confidential customer information. Today’s information technology risks are largely external and their consequences affect the entire Company. Potential risks include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) an intrusion by a hacker, (ii) the introduction of malware (virus, Trojan, spyware), (iii) hardware failure, (iv) outages due to software defects, and (v) human error. Although the Company runs anti-virus and anti-spyware software and take other steps to ensure that its information technology systems will not be disabled or otherwise disrupted, there can be no assurances that disruptions will not occur. The consequences of a disruption, depending on the severity, could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business and financial condition and could expose the Company to civil, regulatory and industry actions and possible judgments, fees and fines. In addition, any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information could severely damage the Company’s reputation, expose it to the risks of legal proceedings, disrupt its operations and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business and financial condition. Covenants in the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility agreement may impose operating restrictions, impede or adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends or repurchase common shares and raise capital through the sale of stock and other securities. The Company’s Revolving Credit Facility agreement contains covenants which, among other things, restrict (i) the amount of additional debt or capital lease obligations, (ii) the amount of capital expenditures, payment of dividends and repurchase of common stock under certain circumstances and (iii) related party transactions. In addition, any material or adverse developments affecting the business of the Company could significantly limit its ability to meet its obligations as they become due or to comply with the various covenant requirements contained in the Company's Revolving Credit Facility agreement. If the Company's trademarks are successfully challenged, the outcome of those disputes could require the Company to abandon one or more of its trademarks. The Company regards its trademarks and their protection as important to its success. However, the Company cannot be sure that any trademark held by it will give it a competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Although the Company intends to vigorously protect its trademarks, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity and prevent infringement of trademarks can be substantial and the outcome of those disputes could require the Company to abandon one or more of its trademarks. 12 Table of Contents A work slowdown, stoppage or other disruption by employees of carriers, shippers and other providers of merchandise transportation services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. The Company’s vendors rely on shippers, carriers and other providers of merchandise transportation services (collectively “Transportation Providers”) to deliver merchandise from their manufacturers, both in the United States and abroad, to the vendors’ distribution centers in the United States. The Company’s vendors and the Company also rely on Transportation Providers to transport merchandise from the vendors’ distribution centers to the Company’s distribution centers. The Company also relies on Transportation Providers to transport merchandise from its distribution centers to its stores. However, if work slowdowns, stoppages or other disruptions affect the transportation of merchandise between the vendors and their manufacturers, especially those manufacturers outside the United States, or between the vendors and the Company, the Company’s business, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Any devaluation of the Mexican peso, or imposition of restrictions on the access of citizens of Mexico to the Company’s stores, could adversely impact the Company’s business and financial condition. Approximately 4% of the Company’s stores are located in cities that either border Mexico or that the Company considers to be in close proximity to Mexico. The Company estimates that approximately 8% of its 2006 sales were derived from these stores. While purchases in these stores are made in United States dollars, a devaluation of the Mexican peso could negatively affect the exchange rate between the peso and the dollar, which would result in reduced purchasing power on the part of the Company’s customers who are citizens of Mexico. In that event, revenues attributable to these stores could be reduced. In addition, due to global uncertainties, including threats or acts of terrorism, it is possible that tighter restrictions may be imposed by the Federal government on the ability of citizens of Mexico to cross the border into the United States. In that case, revenues attributable to the Company’s stores regularly frequented by citizens of Mexico could be reduced. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 