risk factors discussed below in this Report. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as to the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects on our Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 3 PART I Item 1. Business. GENERAL The InterGroup Corporation (“InterGroup” or the “Company” and may also be referred to as “we” “us” or “our” in this report) is a Delaware corporation formed in 1985, as the successor to Mutual Real Estate Investment Trust ("M-REIT"), a New York real estate investment trust created in 1965. The Company has been a publicly-held company since M-REIT's first public offering of shares in 1966. The Company was organized to buy, develop, operate, rehabilitate and dispose of real property of various types and descriptions, and to engage in such other business and investment activities as would benefit the Company and its shareholders. The Company was founded upon, and remains committed to, social responsibility. Such social responsibility was originally defined as providing decent and affordable housing to people without regard to race. In 1985, after examining the impact of federal, state and local equal housing laws, the Company determined to broaden its definition of social responsibility. The Company changed its form from a REIT to a corporation so that it could pursue a variety of investments beyond real estate and broaden its social impact to engage in any opportunity which would offer the potential to increase shareholder value within the Company's underlying commitment to social responsibility. As of June 30, 2012, the Company owned approximately 79.9% of the common shares of Santa Fe Financial Corporation (“Santa Fe”), a public company (OTCBB: SFEF). Santa Fe’s revenue is primarily generated through its 68.8% owned subsidiary, Portsmouth Square, Inc. (“Portsmouth”), a public company (OTCBB: PRSI). InterGroup also directly owns approximately 12.5% of Portsmouth. Portsmouth’s principal business is conducted through its general and limited partnership interest in the Justice Investors limited partnership (“Justice” or the “Partnership”). The Portsmouth has a 50.0% limited partnership interest in Justice and serves as the Managing General Partner. The other general partner is Evon Corporation (“Evon”). Justice owns a 543 room hotel property located at 750 Kearny Street, San Francisco, California 94108, known as the “Hilton San Francisco Financial District” (the “Hotel”) and related facilities, including a five level underground parking garage. The financial statements of Justice are consolidated with those of the Company. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Most significant partnership decisions require the active participation and approval of both general partners. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, voting rights of the partners are determined according to the partners’ entitlement to share in the net profit and loss of the partnership. The Company is not entitled to any additional voting rights by virtue of its position as a general partner. The partnership agreement provides that no portion of the partnership real property can be sold without the written consent of the general partners and the limited partners entitled to more than 72% of the net profit. The partnership agreement also provides that amendments to the agreement may be made only upon the consent of the general partners and at least seventy 75% of the interests of the limited partners and the consent of at least 75% of the interests of the limited partners will also be required to remove a general partner. As of June 30, 2012, there were 113 limited partners in Justice, including Portsmouth and Evon. Historically, the Partnership’s most significant source of income was a lease between Justice and Holiday Inn for the Hotel portion of the property. That lease was amended in 1995, and ultimately assumed by Felcor Lodging Trust, Inc. (“Felcor”) in 1998. The lease of the Hotel to Felcor was terminated effective June 30, 2004. With the termination of the Hotel lease, Justice assumed the role of an owner/operator with the assistance of a third party management company. Effective July 1, 2004, the Hotel was operated as a Holiday Inn Select brand hotel pursuant to a short-term franchise agreement until it was temporarily closed for major renovations on May 31, 2005. The Hotel was reopened on January 12, 2006 to operate as a full service Hilton hotel, pursuant to a Franchise License Agreement with Hilton Hotels Corporation. Justice also has a Management Agreement with Prism Hospitality L.P. (“Prism”) to perform the day-to-day management functions of the Hotel. 4 Until September 30, 2008, the Partnership also derived income from the lease of the parking garage to Evon. As discussed below, effective October 1, 2008, Justice entered into an installment sale agreement with Evon to purchase the remaining term of the garage lease and related garage assets at which time the garage became a part of the Partnership’s operations. Justice also leases a portion of the lobby level of the Hotel to a day spa operator. Portsmouth also receives management fees as the Managing General Partner of Justice for its services in overseeing and managing the Partnership’s assets and limited partnership distributions as may be declared by Justice. In addition to the operations of the Hotel, the Company also generates income from the ownership, management and, when appropriate, sale of real estate. Properties include seventeen apartment complexes, two commercial real estate properties and two single-family houses. The properties are located throughout the United States, but are concentrated in Texas and Southern California. The Company also has investments in unimproved real property. All of the Company’s residential rental properties in California are managed by professional third party property management companies and the rental properties outside of California are managed by the Company. The commercial real estate in California is also managed by the Company. The Company acquires its investments in real estate and other investments utilizing cash, securities or debt, subject to approval or guidelines of the Board of Directors and its Real Estate Investment Committee. The Company may also look for new real estate investment opportunities in hotels, apartments, office buildings and development properties. The acquisition of any new real estate investments will depend on the Company’s ability to find suitable investment opportunities and the availability of sufficient financing to acquire such investments. To help fund any such acquisition, the Company may borrow funds to leverage its investment capital. The amount of any such debt will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the availability of financing and the sufficiency of the acquisition property’s projected cash flows to support the operations and debt service. The Company also derives income from the investment of its cash and investment securities assets. The Company has invested in income-producing instruments, equity and debt securities and will consider other investments if such investments offer growth or profit potential. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s marketable securities and other investments. RECENT BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS Garage Installment Sale Agreement and Parking Facilities Management Agreement Effective October 1, 2008, Justice and Evon entered into an Installment Sale Agreement whereby the Partnership purchased all of Evon’s right title and interest in the remaining term of its lease of the parking garage, which was to expire on November 30, 2010, and other related assets. The partnership also agreed to assume Evon’s contract with Ace Parking Management, Inc. (“Ace Parking”) for the management of the garage and any other liabilities related to the operation of the garage commencing October 1, 2008. The purchase price for the garage lease and related assets was approximately $755,000, payable in one down payment of approximately $28,000 and 26 equal monthly installments of approximately $29,000, which included interest at the rate of 2.4% per annum. The Note was fully paid as of November 2010. On October 31, 2010, Justice Investors and Ace Parking entered into an amendment of the Parking Agreement to extend the term for a period of sixty two (62) months, commencing on November 1, 2010 and terminating December 31, 2015, subject to either party’s right to terminate the agreement without cause on ninety (90) days written notice. The monthly management fee of $2,000 and the accounting fee of $250 remain the same, but the amendment modified how the Excess Profit Fee to be paid to Ace would be calculated. The amendment provides that, if net operating income (“NOI”) from the garage operations exceeds $1,800,000 but is less than $2,000,000, Ace will be entitled to an Excess Profit Fee of one percent (1%) of the total annual NOI. If the annual NOI is $2,000,000 or higher, Ace will be entitled to an Excess Profit Fee equal to two percent (2%) of the total annual NOI. The prior Excess Profit Fee entitled Ace to receive three percent of NOI in excess of $150,000. 5 Amendments to Justice Investors Limited Partnership Agreement On December 1, 2008, Portsmouth and Evon, as the two general partners of Justice, entered into a 2008 Amendment to the Limited Partnership Agreement (the “Amendment”) that provides for a change in the respective roles of the general partners. Pursuant to the Amendment, Portsmouth assumed the role of Managing General Partner and Evon continued on as the Co-General Partner of Justice. The Amendment was ratified by approximately 98% of the limited partnership interests. The Amendment also provides that future amendments to the Limited Partnership Agreement may be made only upon the consent of the general partners and at least seventy five percent (75%) of the interests of the limited partners. Consent of at least 75% of the interests of the limited partners will also be required to remove a general partner pursuant to the Amendment. Effective November 30, 2010, the general and limited partners of Justice Investors entered into an Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, which was approved and ratified by more than 98% of the limited partnership interests of Justice. The Partnership Agreement was amended and restated in its entirety to comply with the new provisions of the California Corporations Code known as the “Uniform Limited Partnership Act of 2008”. The amendment did not result in any material modifications of the rights or obligations of the general and limited partners. New General Partner Compensation Agreement Concurrent with the December 2008 Amendment to the Limited Partnership Agreement, a new General Partner Compensation Agreement (the “Compensation Agreement”) was entered into on December 1, 2008, among Justice, Portsmouth and Evon to terminate and supersede all prior compensation agreement for the general partners. Pursuant to the Compensation Agreement, the general partners of Justice are entitled to receive an amount equal to 1.5% of the gross annual revenues of the Partnership (as defined), less $75,000 to be used as a contribution toward the cost of Justice engaging an asset manager. In no event shall the annual compensation be less than a minimum base of approximately $285,000, with eighty percent (80%) of that amount being allocated to Portsmouth for its services as managing general partner and twenty percent (20%) allocated to Evon as the co-general partner. Compensation earned by the general partners in each calendar year in excess of the minimum base, will be payable in equal fifty percent (50%) shares to Portsmouth and Evon. During the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, the general partners were paid approximately $562,000 and $468,000 respectively, under the applicable compensation agreements. Of those amounts, approximately $366,000 and $323,000 was paid to Portsmouth for fiscal 2012 and 2011. Comstock Mining, Inc. Debt Restructuring On October 20, 2010, as part of a debt restructuring of one of its investments, the Company exchanged approximately $13,231,000 in notes, convertible notes and debt instruments that it held in Comstock Mining, Inc. (“Comstock” – now NYSE MKT: LODE) for 13,231 shares ($1,000 stated value) of newly created 7 1/2% Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock (the “A-1 Preferred”) of Comstock. Prior to the exchange, those notes and convertible debt instruments had a carrying value of $1,809,000, net of impairment adjustments. The Company accounted for the transaction as an exchange of its debt securities and recorded the new instruments (A-1 Preferred) received based on their fair value. The Company estimated the fair value of the A-1 Preferred at $1,000 per share, which was the stated value of the instrument, for a total of $13,231,000. The fair value of the A-1 Preferred had a similar value to the Series B preferred stock financing (stated value of $1,000 per share) by which Comstock concurrently raised $35.7 million in new capital from other investors in October 2010. The Company recorded an unrealized gain of $11,422,000 related to the preferred stock received in exchange for debt as part of the debt restructuring. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Sales, Purchases and Refinancings of Properties In January 2012, the Company sold its 24-unit apartment complex located in Los Angeles, California for $4,370,000. The Company realized a gain on the sale of real estate of approximately $1,710,000 and received net proceeds of $4,111,000 from the sale after selling costs. The Company paid off the related mortgage note payable balance of $1,504,000. In December 2011, the Company refinanced its $926,000 mortgage note payable on its 12-unit apartment building located in Los Angeles, California for a new 10-year mortgage in the amount of $2,095,000. The interest rate on the new loan is fixed at 4.25% per annum for the first 5 years and variable for the remaining 5 years, with monthly principal and interest payments based on a 30-year amortization schedule. The note matures in January 2022. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $1,122,000 from the refinancing. In January 2011, the Company sold its 132-unit apartment complex located in San Antonio, Texas for $5,500,000 and recognized a gain on the sale of real estate of $3,290,000. The Company received net proceeds of $2,030,000 after selling costs and the pay-off of the related outstanding mortgage note payable of $3,215,000. The proceeds were placed with a third party accommodator for the purpose of executing a Section 1031 tax-deferred exchange for another property. In April 2011, the Company purchased a 9-unit beachside apartment complex located in Marina Del Rey, California for $4,000,000 to effectuate that exchange. As part of the purchase, the Company obtained a mortgage note payable in the amount of $1,487,000. The interest rate on the loan is fixed at 5.60% per annum, with monthly principal and interest payments based on a 30-year amortization schedule. The note matures in May 2021. HILTON HOTELS FRANCHISE LICENSE AGREEMENT On December 10, 2004, the Partnership entered into a Franchise License Agreement with Hilton Hotels Corporation (the “Franchise Agreement”) for the right to operate the Hotel as a Hilton brand hotel. The term of the Franchise Agreement is for 15 years commencing on the opening date of the Hotel, January 12, 2006, with an option to extend that Agreement for another five years, subject to certain conditions. Pursuant to the Franchise Agreement, the Partnership paid monthly royalty fees for the first two years of three percent (3%) of the Hotel’s gross room revenue, as defined, for the preceding calendar month; the third year was at four percent (4%) of the Hotel’s gross room revenue; and the fourth year until the end of the term will be five percent (5%) of the Hotel’s gross room revenue. Justice also pays a monthly program fee of four percent (4%) of the Hotel’s gross room revenue. The amount of the monthly program fee is subject to change; however, the increase cannot exceed one percent (1%) of the Hotel gross room revenue in any calendar year, and the cumulative increases in the monthly fees will not exceed five percent (5%) of gross room revenue. The Partnership also pays a monthly information technology recapture charge of 0.75% of the Hotel’s gross revenue. Due to the difficult economic environment, Hilton agreed to reduce its information technology fees to 0.65% for the 2010 calendar year. Prior to operating the Hotel as a Hilton hotel, the Partnership was required to make substantial renovations to the Hotel to meet Hilton standards in accordance with a product improvement plan (“PIP”) agreed upon by Hilton and the Partnership, as well as comply with other brand standards. That project included a complete renovation and upgrade of all of the Hotel’s guestrooms, meeting rooms, common areas and restaurant and bar. As of January 12, 2006, the Hotel renovation work was substantially completed, at which time Justice obtained approval from Hilton to open the Hotel as the “Hilton San Francisco Financial District”. The Hotel opened with a limited number of rooms available to rent, which increased as the Hotel transitioned into full operations by the end of February 2006. The total cost of the construction-renovation project of the Hotel was approximately $37,030,000, which includes approximately $630,000 in interest costs incurred during the construction phase that were capitalized. To meet those substantial financial commitments, and the costs of operations during the renovation period and for the first five months when the Hotel ramped up its operations, the Partnership has relied on additional borrowings to meet its obligations. As discussed in 