Risk Factors The following factors could materially affect Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. The industries that Applied serves are volatile and unpredictable. As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries, Applied is subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict and which vary by reportable segment. These industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers’ products, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect Applied’s orders, net sales, operating expenses and net income. To meet rapidly changing demand in each of the industries it serves, Applied must effectively manage its resources and production capacity for each of its segments and across multiple segments. During periods of decreasing demand for Applied’s products, Applied must be able to appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. During periods of increasing demand, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer 13 Table of Contents demand; effectively manage its supply chain; and attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If Applied is not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in its business environment, Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weakening global economy. The recent severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets, and weakening global economy are contributing to slowdowns in the industries in which Applied operates, which slowdowns are expected to worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. The markets for semiconductors and flat panel displays in particular depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause certain Applied customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing equipment or service orders, which may affect Applied’s ability to convert backlog to sales and reduce net sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, resulting in lower sales for Applied. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense for Applied. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could affect their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for Applied’s products. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for Applied to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by deteriorating financial market conditions and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment. If Applied is not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates. The global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries, including: • increasing capital requirements for building and operating new fabrication plants and the resulting effect on customers’ ability to raise the necessary capital; • the varying growth rates of the semiconductor, display and solar equipment industries; • the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing and the resulting impact on new technology adoption rates; • the importance of reducing the total cost of system ownership, due in part to the increasing significance of lower-cost consumer electronics as a driver for semiconductor and LCD demand; • fluctuating levels of business information technology spending; • the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and productivity and the effect on demand for systems as a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability; • demand for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment; • price and performance trends for semiconductor devices, LCDs and solar PVs, and the corresponding effect on demand for such products; • the increasing importance of spare parts availability to maximize system uptime; • the increasing role for and complexity of software; and • the increasing focus on energy usage, the environment and sustainability. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry. The largest portion of Applied’s revenues historically has come from sales of manufacturing equipment to the global semiconductor industry, and this business historically has also been the most profitable. Changes in the semiconductor industry may lead to a decrease in the percentage of Applied’s revenue attributable to its semiconductor equipment business as a percentage of overall revenue, which in turn can negatively impact the Company’s net income. In addition to the general industry changes described in the preceding risk factor, the semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that industry, including: • the increasing cost of semiconductor R&D due to many factors, including decreasing linewidths, the increasing number of materials, device structures, applications and process steps, and the increasing cost, complexity and integration of manufacturing process development and chip design; • the growing types and varieties of semiconductors and expanding number of applications across multiple substrate sizes, resulting in divergent technical demands; • differing rates of market growth for, and capital investments by, various semiconductor device makers, such as memory (including NAND flash and DRAM), logic and foundry; • the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor manufacturers to move volume manufacturing from one technology node to the next smaller technology node, and the resulting impact on the technology transition rate and the rate of investment in capital equipment; • the effect of the decreasing number of new chip designs on the rate of capital equipment investment; • technology changes in related markets, such as lithography; • the increasing fragmentation of certain markets for semiconductors and the resulting effect on the number of individual markets that have the ability to financially justify the cost of a new fabrication plant; • the cost, technical complexity and timing of a proposed transition from 300 mm to 450 mm wafers; and • increasing costs, complexity and competitiveness in the semiconductor industry that has resulted in the decreasing profitability of many manufacturers, causing them to enter into collaboration, cooperation or cost-sharing arrangements with other manufacturers, to outsource some or all manufacturing activities, or to focus on particular markets or applications. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the flat panel display industry. The global flat panel display industry historically has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of LCD manufacturers and the concentrated nature of LCD end-use applications. Recently, industry growth has depended to a considerable extent on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs. In addition to the general industry changes described above in the third risk factor, the display industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that industry. These include technical and financial difficulties associated with transitioning to larger substrate sizes for LCDs, as well as the effect of a slowing rate of transition to larger substrate sizes on capital intensity and product differentiation. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the display industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. An increasing portion of Applied’s business is in the emerging solar market, which Applied entered in 2006 and which, in addition to the general industry changes described above in the third risk factor, is characterized by ongoing changes particular to the solar industry, including: • changes in demand for solar PV products arising from, among other things, the cost and performance of solar PV technology compared to other energy sources; • the adequacy of or changes in government energy policies, including the availability and amount of government incentives for solar power; • the extent of investment or participation in solar by utilities or other companies that generate, transmit or distribute power to end users; • evolving industry standards; • difficulties associated with establishing a standard form factor for thin film solar modules; • regulatory requirements and customers’ ability to timely satisfy these requirements; • a requirement of certification by third parties in certain circumstances; • customers’ and end-users’ access to affordable financial capital; and • the move to increasingly greater factory output of solar PVs, including output on a level sufficient to annually generate electricity on a gigawatt scale. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to competition and rapid technological changes. As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its future success depends on many factors, including the effective commercialization and customer acceptance of its nanomanufacturing technology equipment, service and related products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing markets, expanding into related markets, cultivating new markets and exceeding industry growth rates, while constantly improving its operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in more varied competitive environments have grown increasingly complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may involve higher costs and reduced profits. Applied’s success is subject to many risks, including but not limited to its ability to timely, cost-effectively and successfully: • develop new products, improve and/or develop new applications for existing products, and adapt similar products for use by customers in different applications and/or markets with varying technical requirements; • appropriately price and achieve market acceptance of products; • differentiate its products from those of competitors and any disruptive technologies, meet performance specifications, and drive efficiencies and cost reductions; • maintain operating flexibility to enable different responses to different markets, customers and applications; • appropriately allocate resources, including R&D funding, among Applied’s products and between the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products; • accurately forecast demand and meet production schedules for its products; • improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; • adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain; • qualify products for volume manufacturing with its customers; 16 Table of Contents • implement changes in its design engineering methodology, including those that enable reduction of material costs and cycle time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, greater effectiveness of product life cycle management, and reduced energy usage and environmental impact; and • successfully accomplish the simultaneous start-up of multiple integrated thin film solar production lines. If Applied does not successfully manage these challenges, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The entry into new markets and industries entails additional challenges. As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand into related or new markets and industries, either with its existing nanomanufacturing technology products or with new products developed internally or obtained through acquisitions. The entry into different markets involves additional challenges, including those arising from: • Applied’s ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks; • the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations in production planning, execution, supply chain management and logistics; • the adoption of new business models, such as the supply of an integrated production line consisting of a suite of Applied and non-Applied equipment to manufacture solar PVs; • the need to develop adequate new business processes and systems; • Applied’s ability to rapidly expand its operations to meet increased demand and the associated effect on Applied’s working capital; • new materials, processes and technologies; • the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise in these new areas; • new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some with limited operating histories, uncertain and/or limited funding, evolving business models and/or locations in regions where Applied does not have existing operations; • different customer service requirements; • new and/or different competitors with potentially more financial or other resources and industry experience; • entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business and employment practices; • third parties’ intellectual property rights; and • the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry standards and practices. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from its entry into new markets and industries, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. In fiscal 2008, approximately 81 percent of Applied’s net sales were to customers in regions outside the United States, with a majority of business from customers in Asia. Certain of Applied’s R&D and/or manufacturing facilities, as well as suppliers to Applied, are also located outside the United States, including in China. The global nature of Applied’s business and operations presents challenges, including but not limited to those arising from: • varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; • variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or international laws and regulations (including tax and import and export restrictions), as well as the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations; • global trade issues, including those related to the interpretation and application of import and export licenses; • variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; 17 Table of Contents • positions taken by U.S. governmental agencies regarding possible national commercial and/or security issues posed by international business operations; • fluctuating raw material and energy costs; • variations in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses; • fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative position of the U.S. dollar; • the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; • political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war in locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales; • cultural differences; • customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors; • shipping costs and/or delays; • uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries; and • uncertainties with respect to growth rates for the manufacture and sales of semiconductors, LCDs and solar cells in the developing economies of certain countries. Many of these challenges are present in China, which is experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and competitors to Applied, and which Applied believes presents a large potential market for its products and opportunity for growth over the long term. In addition, Applied must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and make appropriate changes. These challenges may materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applied’s semiconductor and flat panel display customer bases historically have been, and are becoming even more, highly concentrated. In addition, certain customers have entered into strategic alliances or industry consortia that have increased the influence of key industry participants in technology decisions made by their partners. In the solar area, while the number of solar PV manufacturing customers is increasing as the number of market entrants grows, the size of contracts with particular customers is expected to rise substantially as the industry moves to greater solar module factory output capacity, including capacity sufficient to annually generate electricity on a gigawatt scale. In this environment, contracts or orders from a relatively limited number of semiconductor, display and solar manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applied’s business. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders, or they delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace the business. As Applied’s products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. Major customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain customers have undergone significant ownership and/or management changes, and outsourced manufacturing activities, have engaged in collaboration or cooperation arrangements with other customers or have consolidated with other customers, which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic investments. Applied has made, and in the future intends to make, acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets for Applied. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all; 18 Table of Contents • inability to realize anticipated benefits; • failure to commercialize purchased technologies; • inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from Applied’s existing markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions; • exposure to operational risks, rules and regulations to the extent such activities are located in countries where Applied has not historically conducted business; • challenges associated with managing larger, more diverse and more widespread operations; • inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; • ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s internal controls; • impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company or its product offerings; • unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; • inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs; and • ineffective integration of operations, systems, technologies, products or employees of the acquired companies. Applied also makes strategic investments in other companies, including companies formed as joint ventures, which may decline in value and/or not meet desired objectives. The success of these investments depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures, requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Applied’s business depends on its ability to supply equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers located in countries other than the United States, including China. Applied may experience significant interruptions of its manufacturing operations, delays in its ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of: • the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; • volatility in the availability and cost of materials; • difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export approvals; • information technology or infrastructure failures; • natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms); or • other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations. In addition, Applied’s need to rapidly increase its business and manufacturing capacity to meet unanticipated increases in demand may exacerbate any interruptions in Applied’s manufacturing operations and supply chain and the associated effect on Applied’s working capital. Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. The volatility of demand for capital equipment increases capital, technical and other risks for companies in the supply chain. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The failure to successfully implement and conduct off-shoring and outsourcing activities and other operational initiatives could adversely affect results of operations. To better align its costs with market conditions, increase its presence in growing markets, enhance productivity, and improve efficiencies, Applied conducts engineering, software development and other operations in regions outside the United States, particularly India and China, and outsources certain functions to third parties, including companies in the United States, India, China and other countries. Outsourced functions include certain engineering, manufacturing, customer support, software development, information technology support, finance and administrative activities. The expanding role of third party providers has required changes to Applied’s existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies, assure quality and continuity of supply, and protect Applied’s intellectual property. In addition, Applied has implemented several key operational initiatives intended to improve manufacturing efficiency, including integrate-to-order, module-final-test and merge-in-transit programs. Applied also is implementing a multi-year, company-wide program to transform certain business processes, which includes transitioning to a single enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system to perform various functions. The conversion to this new ERP system will include certain risks, including difficulties with data integrity and business interruption. If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its off-shoring and outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if Applied’s third party providers do not perform as anticipated, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing a new ERP system or enhancing business processes, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs (including energy and transportation), manufacturing interruptions or delays, inefficiencies in the structure and/or operation of its supply chain, loss of its intellectual property rights, quality issues, increased product time-to-market and/or inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success. Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership, competitors’ hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of Applied’s compensation programs, including its equity-based programs. Applied periodically evaluates its overall compensation program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to enhance its competitiveness. If Applied does not successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, Applied may be unable to capitalize on its opportunities and its operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results of operations. As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the: (1) applicable tax laws; (2) composition of pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of Applied’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, Applied is subject to regular examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts, product 20 Table of Contents performance, product liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, divert management’s attention and resources, and/or inhibit Applied’s ability to sell its products. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. Applied previously entered into a mutual covenant-not-to-sue arrangement with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of patent infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no assurance that the intended results of this arrangement will be achieved or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated with such a covenant. In addition, Applied’s success depends in significant part on the protection of its intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. Applied’s intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or if Applied does not adequately protect or assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws and practices of other countries, including China, India, Taiwan and Korea, permit the protection and enforcement of Applied’s rights to varying extents, which may not be sufficient to protect Applied’s rights. If Applied is not able to obtain or enforce intellectual property rights, resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend its intellectual property position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its global business operations, including but not limited to: regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of materials used in its products or in producing its products; the operation of its facilities; and the use of its real property. The failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in: (1) significant remediation liabilities; (2) the imposition of fines; (3) the suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of its products; (4) limitations on the operation of its facilities or ability to use its real property; and/or (5) a decrease in the value of its real property, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. If Applied is found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Applied must include in its Annual Report on Form 10-K a report of management on the effectiveness of Applied’s internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance with this requirement is complex, costly and time-consuming. If Applied fails to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or Applied’s management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal control, Applied could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the public’s perception of Applied may decline. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 