Risk Factors The following factors could materially affect Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. The industries that Applied serves are volatile and difficult to predict. As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries, Applied is subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict and which vary by reportable segment. These industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity and advanced technology requirements and spending, which depend in part on customers’ capacity utilization, production volumes, end-use demand, and inventory levels relative to demand, as well as the rate of technology transitions and customers’ access to affordable capital. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect Applied’s orders, net sales, operating expenses and net income. To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity for each of its segments as well as across multiple segments. During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs. During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied does not accurately forecast and timely and appropriately adapt to changes in its business environment, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks associated with the difficult financial markets and uncertain global economy. The tightening of the credit markets, disruption in the financial markets, and global economic recession that began in 2008 contributed to significant slowdowns in the industries in which Applied operates. Although economic and market conditions have improved, continuing difficulties in the financial markets and uncertainty regarding the global economic recovery are posing challenges. The markets for semiconductors and flat panel displays in particular depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause certain Applied customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for equipment or services, which may reduce net sales, reduce backlog, and affect Applied’s ability to convert backlog to sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital, uncertain market conditions, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, leading to customers’ reduced research and development funding and/or capital expenditures and, in turn, lower sales and/or additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for Applied’s products or added costs. In addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively. Uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for Applied to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect its business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, and/or modify its business model, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. In addition, Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio and return on pension assets could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. If Applied does not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain 15 Table of Contents macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates. The global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries, including: • increasing capital requirements for building and operating new fabrication plants and customers’ ability to raise the necessary capital, particularly in a difficult financial market; • differences in growth rates among the semiconductor, display and solar industries; • the increasing importance of establishing, improving and maintaining strong relationships with customers; • abrupt and unforeseen shifts in the nature and amount of customer and end-user demand; • the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing, which may slow the adoption rate for new manufacturing technology; • the need to reduce the total cost of manufacturing system ownership, due in part to greater demand for lower-cost consumer electronics as compared to business information technology spending; • the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and productivity and the effect on demand for fabrication systems as a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability; • the increasing importance of, and difficulties in, developing products with sufficient differentiation to influence customers’ purchasing decisions; • requirements for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment; • price and performance trends for semiconductor devices, LCDs and solar PVs, and the corresponding effect on demand for such products; • the increasing importance of the availability of spare parts to maximize the time that customers’ systems are available for production; • the increasing role for and complexity of software in Applied products; and • the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes in the semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry. The greatest portion of Applied’s consolidated net sales and profitability historically has been derived from sales of manufacturing equipment by the Silicon Systems Group to the global semiconductor industry. In addition, a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales of service products to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that industry in addition to the general industry changes described in the preceding risk factor, including: • the increasing cost of research and development due to many factors, including: decreasing linewidths on a chip; the use of new materials such as cobalt and yttrium; new and more complex device structures; more applications and process steps; increasing chip design costs; and the increasing cost and complexity of integrated manufacturing processes; • the growing number of types and varieties of semiconductors and number of applications across multiple substrate sizes; 16 Table of Contents • differing market growth rates and capital requirements for different applications, such as NAND Flash, DRAM, logic and foundry, and the resulting effect on customers’ spending patterns and on Applied’s ability to compete in these market segments; • the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor manufacturers to move more technically advanced capability and smaller linewidths to volume manufacturing, and the resulting impact on the rates of technology transition and investment in capital equipment; • semiconductor manufacturers’ increasing adoption of more productive 300mm systems in relation to 200mm system capacity, and the resulting effect on demand for manufacturing equipment and services; • the decreasing rate of capital expenditures as a percentage of semiconductor manufacturers’ revenue; • shorter cycle times between customers’ order placement and product shipment, which may lead to inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease gross margin; • technology developments in related markets, such as lithography, to which Applied may need to adapt; • competitive factors that make it difficult to enhance market position; • the importance of growing market positions in larger market segments, such as etch and inspection; • the increasing concentration of wafer starts in one country, Korea, where Applied’s service penetration and service-revenue-per-wafer-start have been lower than in other regions; • the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new fabrication plant, while others require less technologically advanced products; and • the cost, technical complexity and timing of a proposed transition from 300mm to 450mm wafers. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the flat panel display industry. The global flat panel display industry historically has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of LCD manufacturers and the concentrated nature of LCD end-use applications. Recently, industry growth has depended to a considerable extent on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs. In addition to the general industry changes described above in the third risk factor, the display industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that industry, including: • the planned expansion of manufacturing facilities in China by Chinese display manufacturers as well as manufacturers from other countries, and the ability of non-Chinese manufacturers to obtain government approvals; • technical and financial difficulties associated with transitioning to larger substrate sizes for LCDs; • the effect of a slowing rate of transition to larger substrate sizes on capital intensity and product differentiation; • technical difficulties and costs associated with developing new technologies for use in LCD manufacturing, such as LEDs for backlighting; • new energy efficiency standards for large-screen LCD TVs; and • uncertainty with respect to future LCD technology end-use applications and growth drivers. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the display industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. Applied anticipates that an increasing portion of its business will be in the emerging solar market, which, in addition to the general industry changes described above in the third risk factor, is characterized by ongoing changes specific to the solar industry, including: • the need to continually decrease the cost-per-watt of electricity produced by solar PV products by, among other things, reducing operating costs and increasing throughputs for solar PV manufacturing, and improving the conversion efficiency of solar PVs; • the impact on demand for solar PV products arising from the cost of electricity generated by solar PVs compared to the cost of electricity from the existing grid or other energy sources; • the varying energy policies of governments around the world and their effect in influencing the rate of growth of the solar PV market, including the availability and amount of government incentives for solar power such as tax credits, feed-in tariffs, rebates, renewable portfolio standards that require electricity providers to sell a targeted amount of energy from renewable sources, and goals for solar installations on government facilities; • the cost of polysilicon and other materials; • changes in the nature and amount of end demand for solar PVs that may adversely impact the sales growth rates and profitability of Applied’s products; • varying levels of infrastructure investment for “smart grid” technologies to modernize and enhance the transmission, distribution and use of electricity, which link distributed solar PV sources to population centers, increase transmission capability, and optimize power usage; • access to affordable financing and capital by customers and end-users; and • the growing number of solar PV manufacturers and increasing global production capacity for solar PVs, primarily in China as a result of increased solar subsidies and lower manufacturing costs, which may lead to oversupply. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to competition and rapid technological changes. As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its future success depends on many factors, including the effective commercialization and customer acceptance of its equipment, services and related products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing markets, expanding into related markets, cultivating new markets and exceeding industry growth rates, while constantly improving its operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in more varied competitive environments have grown increasingly complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may entail higher costs and reduced profits. Applied’s performance may be adversely affected if it does not timely, cost-effectively and successfully: • develop new products, improve and/or develop new applications for existing products, and adapt similar products for use by customers in different applications and/or markets with varying technical requirements; • appropriately price and achieve market acceptance of products; • differentiate its products from those of competitors and any disruptive technologies, meet performance specifications, and drive efficiencies and cost reductions; • maintain operating flexibility to enable different responses to different markets, customers and applications; 18 Table of Contents • allocate resources, including people and R&D funding, among Applied’s products and between the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, as most appropriate and effective for future growth; • reduce the cost of, and improve the productivity of capital invested in, R&D activities; • accurately forecast demand, work with suppliers and meet production schedules for its products; • improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; • adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain; • qualify products for volume manufacturing with its customers; and • implement changes in its design engineering methodology, including those that enable reduction of material costs and cycle time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, greater effectiveness of product life cycle management, and reduced energy usage and environmental impact. If Applied does not successfully manage these challenges, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Operating in multiple industries, and the entry into new markets and industries, entail additional challenges. As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand into related or new markets and industries, either with its existing products or with new products developed internally or obtained through acquisitions. The entry into different markets involves additional challenges, including those arising from: • the need to devote additional resources to develop new products for, and operate in, new markets; • differing rates of profitability and growth among multiple businesses; • Applied’s ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks; • the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations in production planning, execution, supply chain management and logistics; • the adoption of new business models; • the need to undertake activities to grow demand for end-products; • the need to develop adequate new business processes and systems; • Applied’s ability to rapidly expand its operations to meet increased demand and the associated effect on working capital; • new materials, processes and technologies; • the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise in these new areas; • new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some with limited operating histories, uncertain and/or limited funding, evolving business models and/or locations in regions where Applied does not have existing operations; • different customer service requirements; • new or different competitors with potentially more financial or other resources, industry experience and/or established customer relationships; • entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business, employment and safety practices; • third parties’ intellectual property rights; and • the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry standards and practices. 19 Table of Contents In addition, Applied has begun applying for and receiving funding from United States and other government agencies for certain strategic development programs to increase its R&D resources and address new market opportunities. As a condition to this government funding, Applied may be subject to certain record-keeping, audit, intellectual property rights-sharing and/or other obligations. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from its diversification and entry into new markets and industries, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. In fiscal 2010, approximately 88 percent of Applied’s net sales were to customers in regions outside the United States. Certain of Applied’s R&D and manufacturing facilities, as well as suppliers to Applied, are also located outside the United States, including in Singapore, Taiwan, China, Korea, Israel, Italy and Switzerland. Applied is also expanding its business and operations in new countries. The global nature of Applied’s business and operations presents challenges, including but not limited to those arising from: • varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; • political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors; • variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or international laws and regulations (including intellectual property, labor, tax, and import /export laws), as well as the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations; • global trade issues, including those related to the interpretation and application of import and export licenses; • positions taken by governmental agencies regarding possible national commercial and/or security issues posed by international business operations; • fluctuating raw material, commodity and energy costs; • challenges associated with managing more geographically diverse operations and projects ; • varying customs, practices and expectations of workers in different regions; • variations in the ability to develop relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments; • fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and the euro; • the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; • political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war in locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales; • cultural and language differences; • shipping costs and/or delays; • the need to continually improve the Company’s operating cost structure; • difficulties and uncertainties associated with the entry into new countries; • uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries; and • uncertainties with respect to growth rates for the manufacture and sales of semiconductors, LCDs and solar PVs in the developing economies of certain countries. Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, which are experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and competitors to Applied. Applied further believes that China and Korea present large potential markets 20 Table of Contents for its products and opportunity for growth over the long term, although at lower projected levels of profitability and margins for certain products than historically have been achieved in other regions. In addition, Applied must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must have effective change management processes and procedures to address changes in its business and operations. These challenges may materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applied’s semiconductor and flat panel display customer bases historically have been, and are becoming even more, highly concentrated as a result of economic and industry conditions. For example, in fiscal 2010, four semiconductor manufacturers accounted for 51 percent of Silicon Systems Group net sales, and five LCD manufacturers accounted for 71 percent of Display net sales.Certain customers have experienced significant ownership or management changes, consolidated with other manufacturers, outsourced manufacturing activities, or engaged in collaboration or cooperation arrangements with other manufacturers. In addition, customers have entered into strategic alliances or industry consortia that have increased the influence of key industry participants in technology decisions made by their partners. Also, certain semiconductor and display customers are making an increasingly greater percentage of their respective industry’s capital equipment investments. In this environment, contracts or orders from a relatively limited number of semiconductor and display manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applied’s business, which may result in added complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace the business. As Applied’s products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. Major customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to Applied. These factors could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to meet customer demand and lead to higher costs, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Applied’s business depends on its timely supply of equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers and timely performance by contract manufacturers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers located in countries other than the United States, including China and Korea. Cyclical industry conditions and the volatility of demand for manufacturing equipment increase capital, technical, operational and other risks for companies throughout Applied’s supply chain. Further, the adverse conditions in the credit and financial markets and industry slowdowns in recent periods have caused, and may continue to cause, some suppliers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other companies, or file for bankruptcy protection and possibly cease operations, potentially affecting Applied’s ability to obtain quality parts on a timely basis. Applied may experience significant interruptions of its manufacturing operations, delays in its ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of: • the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver sufficient quantities of quality parts on a cost-effective basis; • volatility in the availability and cost of materials; • difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export approvals; • information technology or infrastructure failures; 21 Table of Contents • natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms); or • other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war) that could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations. In addition, Applied’s need to rapidly increase its business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand or expedited shipment schedules may exacerbate any interruptions in Applied’s manufacturing operations and supply chain and the associated effect on Applied’s working capital. Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If Applied purchases inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or if customers reduce or delay orders, Applied may incur excess inventory charges. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic investments. Applied has made, and in the future intends to make, acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets for Applied. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all; • inability to realize anticipated benefits; • failure to commercialize purchased technologies; • inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from Applied’s existing markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions and customer relationships; • failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees from the acquired business; • exposure to new operational risks, rules, regulations, worker expectations, customs and practices to the extent acquired businesses are located in countries where Applied has not historically conducted business; • challenges associated with managing new, more diverse and more widespread operations, projects and people; • inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; • inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and/or environmental, health & safety, human resource, or other policies or practices; • impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill as a result of changing business conditions, technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the segment; • the risk of litigation or disputes with customers, suppliers, partners or stockholders of an acquisition target arising from a proposed or completed transaction; • unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; • inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs; and • ineffective integration of operations, systems, technologies, products or employees of an acquired business. Applied also makes strategic investments in other companies, including companies formed as joint ventures, which may decline in value and/or not meet desired objectives. The success of these investments depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures, requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners. The risks to Applied’s strategic investment portfolio may be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of the 22 Table of Contents investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks associated with acquisitions and strategic investments, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success. Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership, competitors’ hiring practices, cost reduction activities (including workforce reductions), and the effectiveness of Applied’s compensation and benefit programs, including its share-based programs. Applied periodically evaluates its overall compensation program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to enhance its competitiveness. If Applied does not successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, Applied may be unable to capitalize on its opportunities and its operating results may be materially and adversely affected. The failure to successfully implement and conduct outsourcing activities and other operational initiatives could adversely affect results of operations. To better align its costs with market conditions, locate closer to customers, enhance productivity, and improve efficiencies, Applied conducts engineering, software development, manufacturing, sourcing and other operations in regions outside the United States, including India, China, and Korea. Applied is implementing a more distributed manufacturing model, which includes transitioning certain manufacturing and supply chain activities from the United States and Europe to Singapore, Taiwan and other countries in Asia and completing assembly of some systems at the customer site. In addition, Applied outsources certain functions to third parties, including companies in the United States, India, China, Korea and other countries. Outsourced functions include contract manufacturing, engineering, customer support, software development, information technology support, finance and administrative activities. The expanding role of third party providers has required changes to Applied’s existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers, as well as redistributing responsibilities as warranted, in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies, assure quality and continuity of supply, and protect Applied’s intellectual property. If Applied does not accurately forecast the amount, timing and mix of demand for products, or if contract manufacturers or other outsource providers fail to perform in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, Applied’s ability to meet customer requirements could suffer, particularly during a market upturn. In addition, Applied is implementing a comprehensive program to better align its global organizations and processes, including initiatives to enhance the Asia supply chain, integrate its sales teams into the business units, and improve back office and information technology infrastructure for more efficient transaction processing. Applied also is implementing a multi-year, company-wide program to transform certain business processes, including the transition to a single enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system to perform various functions. The implementation of additional functionality to the ERP system entails certain risks, including difficulties with changes in business processes that could disrupt Applied’s operations, such as its ability to track orders and timely ship products, project inventory requirements, manage its supply chain and aggregate financial and operational data. The implementation of new initiatives may not achieve the anticipated benefits and may divert management’s attention from other operational activities, negatively affect employee morale, or have other unintended consequences. If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its outsourcing and relocation strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if Applied’s third party providers do not perform as anticipated, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs (including energy and transportation), manufacturing interruptions or delays, inefficiencies in the structure and/or operation of its supply chain, loss of its intellectual property rights, quality issues, increased product 23 Table of Contents time-to-market, and/or inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied may incur impairment charges to goodwill or long-lived assets. Applied has a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions. Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The review compares the fair value for each of Applied’s reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in the Company’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities. Applied’s valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating performance. Applied may be required to record a charge to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product liability, unfair competition, misappropriation of trade secrets, employment, workplace safety, and other matters. Applied also on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against such customers by third parties. In February 2010, the Seoul Prosecutor’s Office for the Eastern District in Korea indicted certain employees of Applied Materials Korea (AMK), including the former head of AMK who at the time of indictment was a vice president of Applied Materials, Inc., along with employees of several other companies, alleging the improper receipt and use of the confidential information of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (Samsung), a major customer. Hearings on these matters are ongoing in the Seoul Eastern District Court.. Applied and Samsung entered into a settlement agreement effective as of November 1, 2010, which resolves potential civil claims related to this matter and which is separate from and does not affect the criminal proceedings. Legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, and associated internal investigations, may (1) be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct; (2) divert management’s attention and other Applied resources; (3) inhibit Applied’s ability to sell its products; (4) result in adverse judgments for damages, injunctive relief, penalties and fines; and/or (5) negatively affect Applied’s business. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations. If Applied is not able to favorably resolve or settle legal proceedings or claims, or in the event of any adverse findings against Applied or any of its employees, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and Applied may suffer harm to its reputation. Applied’s success depends in significant part on the protection of its intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. Applied’s intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or if Applied does not adequately protect or assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws and practices of other countries, including China, India, Taiwan and Korea, permit the protection and enforcement of Applied’s rights to varying extents, which may not be sufficient to protect Applied’s rights. Applied previously entered into an arrangement with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of patent infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no assurance that the intended results of this arrangement will be achieved or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated with the arrangement. If Applied is not able to favorably resolve or settle claims, obtain or enforce 24 Table of Contents intellectual property rights, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend its intellectual property position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and Applied may suffer harm to its reputation. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in tax rates or tax assets and liabilities could affect results of operations. As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the: (1) applicable tax laws; (2) amount and composition of pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of Applied’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. To better align with the increasingly international nature of its business, Applied is transitioning certain manufacturing, supply chain, and other operations into Asia, bringing these activities closer to customers. These changes are expected to result in a reduction of future operating costs. In Singapore, Applied is pursuing available tax incentives that provide that certain income earned in Singapore would be subject to tax holidays or reduced income tax rates. To obtain these tax benefits, Applied must meet requirements relating to various activities. Applied is engaged in discussions with tax authorities in Singapore and the United States concerning these incentives. Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these initiatives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met, the incentives are substantially modified, or if Applied incurs net losses for which it cannot claim a deduction. In addition, Applied is subject to regular examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and from time to time initiates amendments to previously filed tax returns. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations and amendments to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, which requires estimates and judgments. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the tax authorities will agree with such estimates. Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that Applied will be successful or that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s financial condition and results of operations. Applied is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its global business operations, including but not limited to: regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of materials used in its products or in producing its products; the operation of its facilities; and the use of its real property. The failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations, such as those related to climate change, could result in: (1) significant remediation liabilities; (2) the imposition of fines; (3) the suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of its products; (4) limitations on the operation of its facilities or ability to use its real property; and/or (5) a decrease in the value of its real property, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. For example, as a public company with global operations, Applied is subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, and anti-corruption. Changes in laws, regulations and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. Efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue- 25 Table of Contents generating activities to compliance activities. If Applied is found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, Applied could be subject to legal or regulatory sanctions, the public’s perception of Applied could decline, and Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 