Item 1A: Risk Factors The following factors could materially affect Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. The industries that Applied serves are volatile and unpredictable. As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries, Applied is subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict and which may vary by reportable segment. The industries have historically been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers’ products, and inventory levels relative to demand. The effects on Applied of these changes in demand, including end-customer demand, are occurring more rapidly. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect Applied’s orders, net sales, gross margin, contributed profit and results of operations. Applied must effectively manage its resources and production capacity to meet rapidly changing demand. During periods of decreasing demand Applied’s products, Applied must be able to appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions, motivate and retain key employees, and effectively manage its supply chain. During periods of increasing demand, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals; and effectively manage its supply chain. If Applied is not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in industry cycles, Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries. The global industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes, including: (1) higher capital requirements for building and operating new semiconductor and LCD fabrication plants and the resulting effect on customers’ ability to raise the necessary capital; (2) differing rates of market growth for, and capital investments by, various semiconductor device makers, such as memory (including NAND Flash and DRAM), logic and foundry, as well as LCD and solar manufacturers; (3) industry growth rates; (4) the increasing cost and decreasing affordability of research and development due to many factors, including decreasing linewidths, the increasing number of materials, applications and process steps, and the greater complexity of process development and chip design; (5) the increasing difficulty for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing; (6) the importance of reducing the cost of system ownership, due in part to the increasing significance of consumer electronics as a driver for semiconductor and LCD demand and the related focus on lower prices; (7) varying levels of business information technology spending; (8) the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and productivity, and the effect on demand for systems as a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability; (9) the growing types and varieties of semiconductors and expanding number of applications across multiple substrate sizes, resulting in customers’ divergent technical demands; (10) demand for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment; (11) the challenge to semiconductor manufacturers of moving volume manufacturing from one technology node to the next smaller technology node, and the resulting impact on the technology transition rate and the rate of investment in capital equipment; (12) price trends for certain semiconductor devices and LCDs; (13) difficulties associated with transitioning to larger substrate sizes; and (14) the increasing importance of the availability of spare parts to assure maximum system uptime. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Applied must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to competition and rapid technological changes. As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its future success depends on many factors, including the effective development, commercialization and customer acceptance of its nanomanufacturing technology equipment, service and related products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new markets, while constantly improving its operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in more varied competitive environments have grown increasingly complex and expensive over time. Applied’s success is subject to many risks, including but not limited to its ability to timely, cost-effectively and successfully: (1) improve and/or develop new applications for existing products, adapt similar products for use by customers in different applications and/or markets with varying technical requirements, and develop new products; (2) appropriately price and achieve market acceptance of products; (3) maintain operating flexibility to enable different responses to different markets, customers and applications; (4) appropriately allocate resources, including RD&E funding, among Applied’s products and between the development of new products and the improvement of existing products; (5) accurately forecast demand and meet production schedules for its products; (6) achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; (7) increase market share in existing markets, expand its markets and exceed the industry growth rate; (8) adapt to technology changes in related markets, such as lithography; (9) adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain; (10) qualify products for volume manufacturing with its customers; (11) implement changes in its design engineering methodology, including those that enable significant decreases in material costs and cycle time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and greater effectiveness of product life cycle management; and (12) improve its manufacturing processes. Furthermore, new or improved products may involve higher costs and reduced margins. If Applied does not successfully manage these challenges, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The entry into new markets and industries entails additional challenges. As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand into related or new markets and industries, either with its existing nanomanufacturing technology products or with new products developed internally or obtained through acquisitions. These include the emerging solar market, which Applied entered in 2006 and which is subject to ongoing changes in demand for photovoltaic (PV) products arising from, among other things, fluctuations in the cost of electric power, availability of government incentives, changes in government energy policies, the performance and reliability of PV technology, and the success of other renewable energy sources. The entry into different markets involves additional challenges, including those arising from: (1) Applied’s ability to anticipate demand and capitalize on opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks; (2) new customers and suppliers, including some with limited operating histories, uncertain and/or limited funding, and/or locations in regions where Applied does not have existing operations; (3) the adoption of new business models, such as the supply of a suite of Applied and non-Applied equipment sufficient to manufacture solar cells; (4) difficulties in production planning and execution; (5) new materials, processes and technologies; (6) Applied’s ability to drive efficiencies and cost reductions; (7) the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise in these new areas; (8) different service requirements; and (9) intellectual property rights of others. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from entry into new markets and industries, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. In fiscal 2007, approximately 84 percent of Applied’s net sales were to customers in regions outside the United States. A rising percentage of Applied’s business is from customers in Asia. Certain of Applied’s RD&E and/or manufacturing facilities, as well as suppliers to Applied, are also located outside the United States, including in China. Managing Applied’s global operations presents challenges, including but not limited to, those arising from: (1) global uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries; (2) varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; (3) global trade issues; (4) variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights in different countries; (5) concerns of U.S. governmental agencies regarding possible 14 Table of Contents national commercial and/or security issues posed by the growing manufacturing business in Asia; (6) fluctuating raw material and energy costs; (7) variations in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses; (8) changes in laws and regulations of the United States (including export restrictions) and other countries, as well as their interpretation and application; (9) fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the weakening relative position of the U.S. dollar; (10) the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; (11) political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war in locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales; (12) cultural differences; (13) special customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors; (14) shipping costs and/or delays; and (15) adverse conditions in credit markets. Many of these challenges are present in China, which is experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and competitors to Applied, and which Applied believes presents a large potential market for its products and opportunity for growth over the long term. In addition, Applied must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and make appropriate changes. These challenges may materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base in the semiconductor and flat panel display industries. Applied’s semiconductor and flat panel display customer base historically has been, and is becoming even more, highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applied’s net sales. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders, or they delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace the business. As Applied’s products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. Major customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, have outsourced manufacturing activities, and/or have entered into strategic alliances or industry consortia that have increased the influence of key semiconductor manufacturers in technology decisions made by their partners, which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. These factors could have a material, adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic investments. Applied has made, and in the future intends to make, acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets for Applied. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: (1) diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; (2) inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all; (3) inability to realize anticipated benefits; (4) failure to commercialize purchased technologies; (5) inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from Applied’s existing markets; (6) exposure to operational risks, rules and regulations to the extent such activities are located in countries where Applied has not historically done business; (7) inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; (8) ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s internal controls; (9) impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company or its product offerings; (10) unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; (11) excess or underutilized facilities; and (12) ineffective integration of operations, technologies, products or employees of the acquired companies. Applied also makes strategic investments in other companies, including companies formed as joint ventures, which may decline in value and/or not meet desired objectives. The success of these investments depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures, requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Applied’s business depends on its ability to supply equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers in developing regions, including China. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations or the delivery of services as a result of: (1) the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; (2) volatility in the availability and cost of materials; (3) difficulties or delays in obtaining required export approvals; (4) information technology or infrastructure failures; (5) natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms); or (6) other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations. Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to successfully implement and conduct offshoring and outsourcing activities and other operational initiatives could adversely affect results of operations. To better align its costs with market conditions, increase its presence in growing markets, improve its tax structure, and enhance productivity and operational efficiency, Applied conducts engineering, software development and other operations in regions outside the United States, particularly India and China, and outsources certain functions to third parties, including companies in the United States, India, China and other countries. Outsourced functions include certain engineering, manufacturing, customer support, software development, information technology support and administrative activities. The expanding role of third party providers has required changes to Applied’s existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies, assure quality and protect Applied’s intellectual property. In addition, Applied has implemented several key, operational initiatives intended to improve manufacturing efficiency, including integrate-to-order, module-final-test and merge-in-transit programs. Applied also is implementing a multi-year, company-wide program to transform certain business processes, which includes transitioning to a single-vendor, enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system to perform various functions. If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its offshoring and outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if Applied’s third party providers do not perform as anticipated, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing a new ERP system or enhancing business processes, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, manufacturing interruptions or delays, loss of its intellectual property rights, quality issues, increased product time-to-market and/or inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success. Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership, competitors’ hiring practices, and the effectiveness of Applied’s compensation programs, including its equity-based programs. Applied regularly evaluates its overall compensation program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to enhance its competitiveness. If Applied does not successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, Applied’s ability to capitalize on its opportunities and its operating results may be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results of operations. As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the: (1) applicable tax laws; (2) composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of Applied’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, Applied is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend and also divert management’s attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. Applied previously entered into a mutual covenant-not-to-sue arrangement with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of patent infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no assurance that the intended results of this arrangement will be achieved or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated with such a covenant. In addition, Applied’s success depends in significant part on the protection of its intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. Applied’s intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or if Applied does not adequately assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws and practices of other countries, including China, Taiwan and Korea, permit the protection and enforcement of Applied’s rights to varying extents, which may not be sufficient to protect Applied’s rights. If Applied is not able to obtain or enforce intellectual property rights, resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its global business operations, including but not limited to: regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of materials used in its products; the operation of its facilities; and the use of its real property. The failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in: (1) significant remediation liabilities; (2) the imposition of fines; (3) the suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of its products; (4) limitations on the operation of its facilities or ability to use its real property; and/or (5) a decrease in the value of its real property, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. If Applied is found by a court or 17 Table of Contents regulatory agency not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Applied must include in its Annual Report on Form 10-K a report of management on the effectiveness of Applied’s internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance with this requirement is complex, costly and time-consuming. If: (1) Applied fails to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; (2) Applied’s management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal control; or (3) Applied’s independent registered public accounting firm does not timely deliver an unqualified opinion as to the effectiveness of Applied’s internal controls, Applied could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the public’s perception of Applied may decline. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 