Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely impact our business.General economic uncertainty and overall challenging end market conditions could impact our ability to grow our business and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our businesses and operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions. The level of demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions that exist in our served end markets. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from customers in cyclical industries (vehicles, industrial, oil & gas) that typically are adversely affected by downward economic cycles. As global economic uncertainty continues, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may delay or lengthen sales cycles. Unforeseen events may also require additional restructuring costs. Although we expect that the related cost savings and realization of efficiencies will offset the restructuring related costs over time, we may not achieve the net benefits. Like most industrial companies, our sensitivity to economic cycles may have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate recent and future acquisitions.A significant portion of our growth has come from strategic acquisitions of businesses. We plan to continue making acquisitions to enhance our global market position and broaden our product offerings. Our ability to successfully execute acquisitions will be impacted by a number of factors, including the availability of financing on terms acceptable to us, our ability to identify acquisition candidates that meet our valuation parameters and increased competition for acquisitions. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require additional financial resources and attention from management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Failure to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or successfully integrate the acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquired companies.We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquired companies. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the acquired business into the Company. Factors that could affect our ability to achieve these benefits include:•difficulties in integrating and managing personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by the acquired businesses;•the failure of acquired businesses to perform in accordance with our expectations;•failure to achieve anticipated synergies between our business units and the business units of acquired businesses;•the loss of customers of acquired businesses; or•the loss of key managers of acquired businesses.6Table of ContentsIf acquired businesses do not operate as we anticipate, it could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, acquired businesses may operate in niche markets in which we have little or no experience. In such instances, we will be highly dependent on existing managers and employees to manage those businesses, and the loss of any key managers or employees of the acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities.Certain of the acquisition agreements from past acquisitions require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited in amount and duration and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. These indemnification provisions may not fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position.Our goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial amount of our total assets.Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At August 31, 2014, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $1,108 million, or about 60% of our total assets. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and other identifiable intangible assets we have acquired. We assess annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly below current levels, we could be required to recognize a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Any significant goodwill or intangible asset impairment could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Refer to "Critical Accounting Policies" for further discussion on goodwill and intangible asset impairments. Divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business, and retained liabilities from businesses that we sell could adversely affect our financial results.As part of our portfolio management process, the Company reviews its operations for businesses which may no longer be aligned with its strategic initiatives and long-term objectives. During fiscal 2014, we divested our Electrical Segment and two product lines. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities and costs, disputes with buyers or potential impairment charges. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had previously anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we are also subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to a businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims or environmental matters. Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside our control could affect our future financial results.If we fail to develop new products or our customers do not accept the new products we develop, our business could be adversely affected.Our ability to develop new products based on innovation can affect our competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development, production or commercialization of new products or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future sales and adversely affect our competitive position. We continue to invest in the development and marketing of new products through our G + I process. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments, that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain competitive advantages or that we can recover major research and development expenses. If we fail to make innovations, launch products with quality problems or the market does not accept our new products, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected. A lack of successful new product developments may also cause customers to buy from a competitor or may cause us to have to reduce prices to compete.Our indebtedness could harm our operating flexibility and competitive position.We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant indebtedness in connection with acquisitions. We have, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt which requires interest and principal payments. Our level of debt and the 7Table of Contentslimitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage.Our ability to make scheduled principal and interest payments, refinance our indebtedness and satisfy our other debt and lease obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and credit market conditions, which could be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financings will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.Our failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements would adversely affect us.Our senior credit agreement and our other debt agreement contain financial and other restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our financial and operating flexibility as well as our ability to plan for and react to market conditions and to meet our capital needs. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay indebtedness before its due date, and we may not have the financial resources or be able to arrange alternative financing to do so. Borrowings under our senior credit facility are secured by most domestic personal property assets and are guaranteed by most of our domestic subsidiaries and by a pledge of the stock of most of our domestic subsidiaries and certain foreign subsidiaries. If borrowings under our senior credit facility were declared or became due and payable immediately as the result of an event of default and we were unable to repay or refinance those borrowings, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets and stock. Any event that requires us to repay any of our debt before it is due could require us to borrow additional amounts at unfavorable borrowing terms, cause a significant reduction in our liquidity and impair our ability to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. Moreover, if we are required to repay any of our debt before it becomes due, we may be unable to borrow additional amounts or otherwise obtain the cash necessary to repay that debt, when due, which could seriously harm our business.Our ability to execute our share repurchase program depends, in part, on our results of operations, liquidity and changes in the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial price and trading fluctuations, which have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often are unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Price volatility over a given period may also cause the average price at which we repurchase our own common stock to exceed the stock’s price at a given point in time. In addition, significant changes in the trading price of our Class A common stock and our ability to access capital on terms favorable to us could impact our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. Despite significant share repurchases in fiscal 2014, the timing and amount of future repurchases is dependent on cash flows from operations and available liquidity, the amount of capital deployed for acquisitions and the market price of our common stock. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or incur additional costs.Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. We may lose market share in certain businesses or be forced to reduce prices or incur increased costs. We compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.Our international operations pose currency and other risks.We continue to focus on penetrating global markets as part of our overall growth strategy and expect sales from and into foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the United States. Our international operations present special risks, primarily from currency exchange rate fluctuations, exposure to local economic and political conditions, export and import restrictions, controls on repatriation of cash and exposure to local political conditions. In particular, our results of operations have been significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the Euro and British pound. In addition, there have been several proposals to reform international taxation rules in the United States. We earn a substantial portion of our income from international operations and therefore changes to United States international tax rules may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations or liquidity. To the extent that we expand our international presence, these risks may increase.Geopolitical unrest and terrorist activities may cause the economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad to deteriorate, which could harm our business.Terrorist attacks against targets in the U.S. or abroad, rumors or threats of war, other geopolitical activity or trade disruptions may impact our operations or cause general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad to deteriorate. A prolonged 8Table of Contentseconomic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or in other areas of the world could reduce the demand for our products and, therefore, negatively affect our future sales. Any of these events could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Large or rapid increases in the costs of raw materials or substantial decreases in their availability could adversely affect our operations.The primary raw materials that are used in our products include steel, plastic resin, brass, steel wire and rubber. Most of our suppliers are not currently parties to long-term contracts with us. Consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in prices of such raw materials. If market prices for certain materials such as steel or plastic resin rise, it could have a negative effect on our operating results and ability to manufacture our respective products on a timely basis. Factors such as supply and demand, freight costs and transportation availability, inventory levels, the level of imports and general economic conditions may affect the prices of raw materials that we need. If we experience a significant increase in raw material prices, or if we are unable to pass along increases in raw material prices to our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, an increasing portion of our products are sourced from low cost regions. Changes in export laws, taxes and disruptions in transportation routes could adversely impact our results of operations.Regulatory and legal developments including changes to United States taxation rules, health care reform, conflict mineral supply chain compliance and governmental climate change initiatives could negatively affect our financial performance.Our operations and the markets we compete in are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations, including with respect to taxation, health care reform, conflict minerals compliance and governmental climate change initiatives, may be adopted or become applicable to us or customers. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot predict the form any such new laws or regulations will take or the impact any of these laws and regulations will have on our business or operations. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our cost of producing these products.Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Environmental laws and regulations may result in additional costs.We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing public and worker health and safety. Any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results. Pursuant to such laws, governmental authorities have required us to contribute to the cost of investigating or remediating certain matters at current or previously owned and operated sites. In addition, we provided environmental indemnities in connection with the sale of certain businesses and product lines. Liability as an owner or operator, or as an arranger for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, can be joint and several and can be imposed without regard to fault. There is a risk that our costs relating to these matters could be greater than what we currently expect or exceed our insurance coverage, or that additional remediation and compliance obligations could arise which require us to make material expenditures. In particular, more stringent environmental laws, unanticipated remediation requirements or the discovery of previously unknown conditions could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. We are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and our business operations could be restricted if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require.Any loss of key personnel and the inability to attract and retain qualified employees could have a material adverse impact on our operations.We are dependent on the continued services of key executives such as our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and executives in charge of our segments. We currently do not have employment agreements with most of these or other officers. The departure of key personnel without adequate replacement could severely disrupt our business operations. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and manufacturing industry experience to operate our businesses successfully. From time to time there may be shortages of skilled labor which may make it more 9Table of Contentsdifficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our operations would be materially adversely affected.Our operations are highly dependent on information technology infrastructure and failures could significantly affect our business.We depend heavily on our information technology ("IT") systems and infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a significant problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, cyber attack, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns.We are subject to litigation, including product liability and warranty claims that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are, from time to time, a party to litigation that arises in the normal course of our business operations, including product warranty and liability claims, contract disputes and environmental, asbestos, employment and other litigation matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. While we currently maintain general liability and product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms and the insurance may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities that may arise. Any claims brought against us, with or without merit, may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations as a result of potential adverse outcomes, the expenses associated with defending such claims, the diversion of our management's resources and time and the potential adverse effect to our business reputation.If our intellectual property protection is inadequate, others may be able to use our technologies and tradenames and thereby reduce our ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and results of operations.We regard much of the technology underlying our services and products and the trademarks under which we market our products as proprietary. The steps we take to protect our proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or third parties may independently develop similar technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. The agreements may be breached or terminated, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and existing trade secrets, patent and copyright law afford us limited protection. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or to protect our intellectual property rights and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Further, we might not prevail in such litigation which could harm our business.Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products.Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their patents or other intellectual property claims, and we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe. We may have to obtain a license to sell our products if it is determined that our products infringe upon another party’s intellectual property. We might be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.10Table of Contents