Item 1A. Risk Factors Current worldwide economic conditions have adversely affected our industry, business and results of operations. In 2008 and 2009, general worldwide economic conditions experienced a significant downturn due to the effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, increased energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot accurately predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the specific end markets we serve. Several of our principal markets including the vehicle, industrial MRO, marine and electrical markets experienced a significant deterioration due to these economic effects, and as a consequence our business, financial condition and results of operations were adversely affected. Changes in these general economic conditions also impact the expense and cash requirements associated with our defined benefit pension plans, which invest in fixed income and equity securities to fund related benefit obligations. If declines in financial market conditions continue, funding requirements and expense for these defined benefit pension plans will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations or liquidity. Market demand for our products may suffer cyclical declines. The level of market demand for our products depends on the general economic condition of the markets in which we compete. A portion of our revenues are derived from customers in cyclical industries that have been significantly and adversely affected by the recent downward economic cycle, which has resulted in significantly lower demand for products in the affected business segments. For example, we generate sales in the infrastructure, marine, retail electrical DIY, heavy-duty truck, RV and automotive markets. In particular, the economic downturn has led to significant pressure on numerous industries in the United States and globally, causing some of our customers to file for bankruptcy or announce significant restructuring actions in the midst of unprecedented declines in the production levels and consumer demand. Further declines in consumer demand could negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect accounts receivables from our customers. The recent downturn in the global economy has resulted in a material decrease in the demand for our products in a number of these markets. A prolonged downturn or additional deterioration in the conditions in any of these markets, as well as in any of the other industries in which we operate, could adversely affect our businesses. If consumer confidence continues to decline, consumer discretionary spending on vehicle purchases and remodeling and other construction projects would continue to be negatively impacted, adversely impacting our sales to customers in these markets. Our restructuring program could negatively affect our financial performance. In response to the deteriorating economic environment, we implemented various restructuring initiatives aimed at reducing our cost structure and improving operational performance. In fiscal 2009, we recorded restructuring charges of $24 million ($22 million included in selling, administrative and engineering expenses and $2 million included in cost of products sold) which included facility consolidations and workforce reductions to reduce costs in our business. We anticipate incurring an additional $10-12 million of restructuring charges in fiscal 2010 as we complete current restructuring efforts. However, unforeseen events may require additional restructuring costs. Although we expect that the related cost savings and realization of efficiencies will offset the restructuring related costs over time, we may not achieve the net benefits. 7 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could harm our operating flexibility and competitive position. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant indebtedness in connection with acquisitions. We have, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt which will continue to require significant interest and principal payments. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our substantial debt level may adversely affect our future performance. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, and to satisfy our other debt and lease obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and credit market conditions, which will be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financings will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our ability to service our debt obligations would be harmed if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements. Our amended senior credit agreement and our other debt agreements contain financial and other restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our financial and operating flexibility as well as our ability to plan for and react to market conditions and to meet our capital needs. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay indebtedness before its due date, and we may not have the financial resources or be able to arrange alternative financing to do so. Borrowings under our amended senior credit facility are secured by most domestic personal property assets and are guaranteed by most of our domestic subsidiaries and by a pledge of the stock of most of our domestic subsidiaries and certain foreign subsidiaries. If borrowings under our amended senior credit facility were declared or became due and payable immediately as the result of an event of default and we were unable to repay or refinance those borrowings, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets and stock. Any event that requires us to repay any of our debt before it is due could require us to borrow additional amounts at unfavorable borrowing terms, cause a significant decrease in our liquidity and impair our ability to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. Moreover, if we are required to repay any of our debt before it becomes due, we may be unable to borrow additional amounts or otherwise obtain the cash necessary to repay that debt, when due, which could seriously harm our business. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or incur additional costs. Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. We may be forced to reduce prices, incur increased costs or lose market share in certain business units. We compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. Our international operations pose currency and other risks. Our international operations present special risks, primarily from currency exchange rate fluctuations, exposure to local economic and political conditions, export and import restrictions, controls on repatriation of cash and exposure to local political conditions. In particular, our results of operations have been significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the euro and British pound. For example, since nearly half of our revenue is generated in Europe, the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro and British pound in fiscal 2009 adversely impacted our results of operations due to the translation of non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues. In addition, there have been several proposals to reform international taxation rules in the United States. We earn a substantial portion of our income from international operations and therefore changes to United States international tax rules may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations or liquidity. To the extent that we expand our international presence, these risks may increase. 8 Table of Contents Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate recent and future acquisitions. A portion of our growth has come from strategic acquisitions of businesses. We plan to continue making acquisitions to enhance our global market position and broaden our product offerings. Although we have been successful with our acquisition strategies in the past, our ability to successfully execute acquisitions will be impacted by a number of factors, including the availability of financing for acquisitions on terms acceptable to us, our ability to identify acquisition candidates and increased competition for acquisitions, which may increase acquisition costs and affect our ability to consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require additional financial resources and attention from management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Furthermore, even if successfully integrated, the acquired business may not achieve the results we expected or produce expected benefits in the time frame planned. Failure to continue with our acquisition strategy or successfully integrate the acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements from past acquisitions require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. These indemnification provisions may not fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. Our goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial amount of our total assets. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At August 31, 2009, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1,062 million, or about 68% of our total assets. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and other identifiable intangible assets we have acquired. At a minimum, we assess annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly below current levels, we could be required to recognize a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Any significant goodwill or intangible asset impairment would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2009, we recognized goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $26 million related to our RV business and $30 million related to our harsh environment electrical business. See Note 6 “Impairment Charges” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding goodwill and intangible asset impairments. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquired companies. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquired companies. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the acquired business into our company. Factors that could affect our ability to achieve these benefits include: • difficulties in integrating and managing personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by the acquired businesses into our company; • the failure of acquired businesses to perform in accordance with our expectations; • failure to achieve anticipated synergies between our business units and the business units of acquired businesses; 9 Table of Contents • the loss of acquired business customers; or • the loss of any of the key managers of acquired businesses. If acquired businesses do not operate as we anticipate, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, acquired businesses may operate in niche markets in which we have little or no experience. Accordingly, we will be highly dependent upon existing managers and employees to manage those businesses, and the loss of any key managers or employees of the acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business. Environmental laws and regulations may result in additional costs. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing public and worker health and safety. Any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results. Pursuant to such laws, governmental authorities have required us to contribute to the cost of investigating or remediating, or to investigate or remediate, third party as well as currently or previously owned and operated sites. In addition, we provided environmental indemnities in connection with the sale of certain businesses and product lines. Liability as an owner or operator, or as an arranger for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, can be joint and several and can be imposed without regard to fault. There is a risk that our costs relating to these matters could be greater than what we currently expect or exceed our insurance coverage, or that additional remediation and compliance obligations could arise which require us to make material expenditures. In particular, more stringent environmental laws, unanticipated remediation requirements or the discovery of previously unknown conditions could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. We are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and our business operations could be restricted if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. Any loss of key personnel and the inability to attract and retain qualified employees could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We are dependent on the continued services of key executives such as our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and executives in charge of our segments. We currently do not have employment agreements with most of these or other officers. The departure of key personnel without adequate replacement could severely disrupt our business operations. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and manufacturing industry experience to operate our businesses successfully. From time to time there may be shortages of skilled labor which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our operations would be materially adversely affected. If our intellectual property protection is inadequate, others may be able to use our technologies and tradenames and thereby reduce our ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and results of operations. We regard much of the technology underlying our services and products and the trademarks under which we market our products as proprietary. The steps we take to protect our proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or third parties may independently develop similar technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. The agreements may be breached or terminated, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and existing trade secrets, patent and copyright law afford us limited protection. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or 10 Table of Contents to protect our intellectual property rights and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Further, we might not prevail in such litigation which could harm our business. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their patents or other intellectual property claims, and we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe. We may have to obtain a license to sell our products if it is determined that our products infringe upon another party’s intellectual property. We might be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. Large or rapid increases in the costs of raw materials or substantial decreases in their availability could adversely affect our operations. The primary raw materials that we use include steel, plastic resin, copper, brass, steel wire and rubber. Most of our suppliers are not currently parties to long-term contracts with us. Consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in prices of such raw materials. If market prices for certain materials such as steel, plastic resin and copper rise, it could have a negative effect on our operating results and ability to manufacture our respective products on a timely basis. From time to time we have entered into derivative contracts to hedge our exposure to commodity risk, none of which derivative contracts have been material. Factors such as supply and demand, freight costs and transportation availability, inventory levels, the level of imports and general economic conditions may affect the prices of raw materials that we need. If we experience any significant increases in raw material prices, or if we are unable to pass along any increases in raw material prices to our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, an increasing portion of our products are sourced from low cost regions. Changes in export laws, taxes and disruptions in transportation routes could adversely impact our results of operations. Geopolitical unrest and terrorist activities may cause the economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad to deteriorate, which could harm our business. Terrorist attacks against targets in the U.S. or abroad, rumors or threats of war, other geopolitical activity or trade disruptions may impact our operations or cause general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad to deteriorate. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or in other areas of the world could reduce the demand for our products and, therefore, negatively affect our future sales. Any of these events could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 