ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The risks described below are among those that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience and from results predicted by any forward-looking statements related to conditions or events that may occur in the future. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of General Economic and Market Conditions We are subject to the effects of general economic and market conditions. Since October 2008, the U.S. and international economies have experienced a significant downturn and continue to be at depressed levels. In the event that the U.S. or international financial markets erode further, our revenue, profit and cash-flow levels could be materially adversely affected in future periods. If the worldwide economic downturn worsens, many of our current or potential future customers may experience serious cash flow problems and as a result may, modify, delay or cancel purchases of our products. Additionally, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Furthermore, the ongoing downturn and economic uncertainty makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of the Inability to Maintain Adequate Financing Our business is dependent on maintaining the financing used in the Marks acquisition and to fund operations. The current debt facilities provide for quarterly principal debt repayments of approximately $400,000 plus interest that are in addition to the Company’s historical cash-flow requirements and certain financial covenants relating to ratios affected by profit, asset and debt levels. If the Company’s profits, asset or cash-flow levels decline below the minimums required to meet these covenants or to make the minimum debt payments, the Company may be materially adversely affected. Effects on the Company could include higher interest costs, reduction in borrowing availability or revocation of these credit facilities. We Are Dependent Upon the Efforts of Richard L. Soloway, Our Chief Executive Officer and There is No Succession Plan in Place The success of the Company is largely dependent on the efforts of Richard L. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. The loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and prospects. There is currently no succession plan. 4 Competitors May Develop New Technologies or Products in Advance of Us Our business may be materially adversely affected by the announcement or introduction of new products and services by our competitors, and the implementation of effective marketing or sales strategies by our competitors. There can be no assurance that competitors will not develop products that are superior to the Company's products. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience additional price competition, and that such competition may not adversely affect the Company's position and results of operations. The Company's Products are Subject to Technological Changes from Time to Time, Which may Result in Increased Research and Developments Expenditures to Attract or Retain Customers The industry in which the Company operates is characterized by constantly improved products. Future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and market products and product enhancements cost-effectively, which will require continued expenditures for product engineering, sales and marketing. The Company's research and development expenditures are principally targeted at enhancing existing products, and to a lesser extent at developing new ones. If the Company cannot modify its products to meet its customers' changing needs, we may lose sales. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected by the Inability to Maintain Expense Levels Proportionate to Sales Volume While Management has completed a program to reduce expense levels relative to current sales levels, if sales levels decrease significantly and we are unable to decrease expenses proportionately, our business may be adversely affected. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of Housing and Commercial Building Market Conditions We are subject to the effects of housing and commercial building market conditions. If these conditions deteriorate further, resulting in a additional declines in new housing or commercial building starts, existing home or commercial building sales or renovations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected beyond the current levels, particularly in our intrusion and door locking product lines. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of Lessening Demand in the Security Market Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products. Continued or worsening delays or reductions in spending, domestically or internationally, for electronic security systems could further materially adversely affect demand for our products, which could result in decreased revenues or earnings. The Markets We Serve Are Highly Competitive and We May Be Unable to Compete Effectively We compete with approximately 20 other companies that manufacture and market security equipment to distributors, dealers, control stations and original equipment manufacturers. Some of these companies may have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company competes primarily on the basis of the features, quality, reliability and pricing of, and the incorporation of the latest innovative and technological advances into, its products. The Company also competes by offering technical support services to its customers. In addition, the Company competes on the basis of its expertise, its proven products, its reputation and its ability to provide products to customers on a timely basis. The inability of the Company to compete with respect to any one or more of the aforementioned factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's business. Our Business Could be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of Offering Extended Payment Terms to Customers We regularly grant credit terms beyond 30 days to certain customers. These terms are offered in an effort to keep a full line of our products in-stock at our customers’ locations. The longer terms that are granted, the more risk is inherent in collection of those receivables. We believe that our Bad Debt reserves are adequate to account for this inherent risk. We Rely On Distributors To Sell Our Products And Any Adverse Change In Our Relationship With Our Distributors Could Result In A Loss Of Revenue And Harm Our Business. We distribute our products primarily through independent distributors and wholesalers of security alarm and security hardware equipment. Our distributors and wholesalers also sell our competitors' products, and if they favor our competitors' products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. In addition, the financial health of these distributors and wholesalers and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors and wholesalers may be unable to withstand adverse changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors and wholesalers substantially weakens. 5 Members of Management and Certain Directors Beneficially Own a Substantial Portion of the Company’s Common Stock and May Be in a Position to Determine the Outcome of Corporate Elections Richard L. Soloway, our Chief Executive Officer, members of management and the Board of Directors beneficially own 31.4% of the currently outstanding shares of Common Stock. By virtue of such ownership and their positions with Napco, they may have the practical ability to determine the election of all directors and control the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to Napco’s stockholders. In addition, Napco has a staggered Board of Directors. Such concentration of ownership and the staggered Board could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from seeking to acquire, control of Napco. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected by an Increase in the Exchange Rate of the Dominican Peso We are exposed to foreign currency risks due to our operations in the Dominican Republic. We have significant operations in the Dominican Republic which are denominated in Dominican pesos. We are subject to the risk that currency exchange rates between the United States and the Dominican Republic will fluctuate, potentially resulting in an increase in some of our expenses when US dollars are transferred to Dominican pesos to pay these expenses. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected by the Integration of Marks into Our Existing Operations Our business is dependent on the continued effective integration of the acquired Marks business, technologies, product lines and employees into our organization. If this integration deteriorates, our business may be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 