ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below in evaluating Nash Finch because any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We face substantial competition, and our competitors may have added resources, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our financial performance. Our businesses are highly competitive and are characterized by high inventory turnover, narrow profit margins and increasing consolidation. Our Food Distribution and Military businesses compete not only with local, regional and national food distributors, but also with vertically integrated national and regional chains that employ a variety of formats, including supercenters, supermarkets and warehouse clubs. Our retail business, focused in the Upper Midwest, has historically competed with traditional grocery stores and is increasingly competing with alternative store formats such as supercenters, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and extreme value food stores. Some of our Food Distribution and Retail competitors are substantially larger and may have greater financial resources and geographic scope, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do, thereby intensifying price competition at the wholesale and retail levels. Industry consolidation and the expansion of alternative store formats, which have gained and continue to gain market share at the expense of traditional grocery stores, tend to produce even stronger competition for our retail business and for the independent customers of our distribution business. To the extent our independent customers are acquired by our competitors or are not successful in competing with other retail chains and non-traditional competitors, sales by our distribution business will also be affected. If we fail to effectively implement strategies to respond to these competitive pressures, our operating results could be adversely affected by price reductions, decreased sales or margins, or loss of market share. The Military segment faces competition from large national and regional food distributors as well as smaller food distributors. Due to the narrow margins in the military food distribution industry, it is of critical importance for distributors to achieve economies of scale, which are typically a function of the density or concentration of military bases in the geographic markets a distributor serves and a distributor's share of that market. As a result, no distributor in this industry has a nationwide presence and it is very difficult, other than through acquisitions, to expand operations in this industry beyond the geographic regions where we currently can utilize our warehouse and distribution capacity. Our businesses are sensitive to economic conditions that impact consumer spending. Our businesses are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending and buying habits. Economic downturns or uncertainty has adversely affected overall demand and intensified price competition, but also has caused consumers to "trade down" by purchasing lower margin items and to make fewer purchases in traditional supermarket channels. Continued negative economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, volatility in fuel and energy costs, food price inflation or deflation, employment trends in our markets and labor costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters affecting consumer spending could cause consumers to continue shifting even more of their spending to lower-priced competitors. The continued general reductions in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could continue to adversely affect our growth and profitability. The worldwide financial and credit market disruptions have reduced the availability of liquidity and credit generally necessary to fund a continuation and expansion of global economic activity. The shortage of liquidity and credit has led to worldwide economic difficulties that could be prolonged. The general slowdown in economic activity caused by an extended period of economic uncertainty could adversely affect our businesses. A continuation or worsening of the current difficult financial and economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet the terms of sale or our suppliers’ ability to fully perform their commitments to us. 11 Table of Contents Macroeconomic and geopolitical events may adversely affect our customers, access to products, or lead to general cost increases which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Recent events in foreign countries which have resulted in political instability and social unrest and significant deficits in the United States at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect our businesses and customers. Adverse economic or geopolitical events could potentially reduce our access or increase prices associated with products sourced abroad. Such adverse events could lead to significant increases in the price of the products we procure, fuel and other supplies used in our business, utilities, or taxes that cannot be fully recovered through price increases. In addition, disposable consumer income could be affected by these events which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses could be negatively affected if we fail to retain existing customers or attract significant numbers of new customers. Growing and increasing the profitability of our distribution businesses is dependent in large measure upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional distribution customers through our existing network of distribution centers, enabling us to more effectively utilize the fixed assets in those businesses. Our ability to achieve these goals is dependent, in part, upon our ability to continue to provide a high level of customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency, particularly in the process of integrating new customers into our distribution system, and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our independent customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to attract significant numbers of new customers and attrition among our existing customer base could increase, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Growing and increasing the profitability of our retail business is dependent on increasing our market share in the markets our retail stores are located. We plan to invest in redesigning some of our retail stores into other formats in order to attract new customers and increase our market share. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract significant numbers of new retail customers. Our Military segment operations are dependent upon domestic and international military distribution, and a change in the military commissary system, or level of governmental funding, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Because our Military segment sells and distributes grocery products to military commissaries and exchanges in the U.S. and overseas, any material changes in the commissary system, the level of governmental funding to DeCA, military staffing levels or in the locations of bases may have a corresponding impact on the sales and operating performance of this segment. These changes could include privatization of some or all of the military commissary system, relocation or consolidation in the number of commissaries and exchanges, base closings, troop redeployments or consolidations in the geographic areas containing commissaries and exchanges served by us, or a reduction in the number of persons having access to the commissaries and exchanges. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to improve the competitive position of our retail operations. Our Retail segment faces competition from regional and national chains operating under a variety of formats that devote square footage to selling food (i.e., supercenters, supermarkets, extreme value stores, membership warehouse clubs, dollar stores, drug stores, convenience stores, various formats selling prepared foods, and other specialty and discount retailers), as well as from independent food store operators in the markets where we have retail operations. We previously announced strategic initiatives designed to create value within our organization. These initiatives include designing and reformatting our retail stores to increase overall retail sales performance. In connection with these efforts, there are numerous risks and uncertainties, including our ability to successfully identify which course of action will be most financially advantageous for each retail store, our ability to identify those initiatives that will be the most effective in improving the competitive position of the retail stores we retain, our ability to efficiently and timely implement these initiatives, and the response of competitors to these initiatives. If we are unable to improve the overall competitive position of our remaining retail stores the operating performance of that segment may continue to decline and we may need to recognize additional impairments of our long-lived assets and goodwill, be compelled to close or dispose of additional stores and may incur restructuring or other charges to our earnings associated with such closure and disposition activities. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace any of the revenue lost from these closed or sold stores from our other operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from the implementation of new strategic initiatives. We have begun taking action to improve our competitive performance through a series of strategic initiatives. The goal of this effort is to develop and implement a comprehensive and competitive business strategy, addressing the food distribution industry environment and our position within the industry and ultimately create increased shareholder value. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategic initiatives and realize the intended synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. Many of the other risk factors mentioned may limit our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and expand our business. Our efforts to capitalize on business opportunities may not bring the intended results. Assumptions underlying estimates of expected revenue growth or overall cost savings may not be met or economic conditions may deteriorate. Customer acceptance of new retail formats developed may not be as anticipated, hampering our ability to attract new retail customers or maintain our existing retail customer base. Additionally, our management may have its attention diverted from other important activities while trying to execute new strategic initiatives. If these or other factors limit our ability to execute our strategic initiatives, our expectations of future results of operations, including expected revenue growth and cost savings, may not be met. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired by the risks and costs associated with the current and future efforts to grow our business through acquisitions. Efforts to grow our business may include acquisitions. Acquisitions entail various risks such as identifying suitable candidates, effecting acquisitions at acceptable rates of return, obtaining adequate financing and acceptable terms and conditions. Our success depends in a large part on factors such as our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and successfully integrate such operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner while retaining the customer base of the acquired operations. If we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, successfully integrate these operations and retain the customer base, we may experience material adverse consequences to our results of operations and financial condition. The integration of separately managed businesses operating in different markets involves a number of risks, including the following: • demands on management related to the significant increase in our size after the acquisition of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and business practices, such as those involving vendor promotions, and of geographically dispersed personnel and operations; • difficulties in the integration of departments, information technology systems, operating methods, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards and controls, including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies; and • expenses of any undisclosed liabilities, such as those involving environmental or legal matters. Successful integration of new operations, including our purchases of a facility in Bloomington, Indiana and two adjacent facilities in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma during the third quarter of fiscal 2010 will depend on our ability to manage those operations, fully assimilate the operations into our distribution network, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened product offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, maintain the customer base and eliminate redundant and excess costs. We may not realize the anticipated benefits or savings from these new operations in the time frame anticipated, if at all, or such benefits and savings may include higher costs than anticipated. 13 Table of Contents Substantial operating losses may occur if the customers to whom we extend credit or for whom we guarantee loan or lease obligations fail to repay us. In the ordinary course of business, we extend credit, including loans, to our food distribution customers, and provide financial assistance to some customers by guaranteeing their loan or lease obligations. We also lease store sites for sublease to independent retailers. Generally, our loans and other financial accommodations are extended to small businesses that are unrated and may have limited access to conventional financing. As of December 31, 2011, we had loans, net of reserves, of $29.6 million outstanding to 36 of our food distribution customers and had guaranteed outstanding debt and lease obligations of food distribution customers totaling $7.9 million. In the normal course of business, we also sublease retail properties and assign retail property leases to third parties. As of December 31, 2011, the present value of our maximum contingent liability exposure, net of reserves, with respect to subleases and assigned leases was $19.3 million and $11.4 million, respectively. While we seek to obtain security interests and other credit support in connection with the financial accommodations we extend, such collateral may not be sufficient to cover our exposure. Greater than expected losses from existing or future credit extensions, loans, guarantee commitments or sublease arrangements could negatively and potentially materially impact our operating results and financial condition. Changes in vendor promotions or allowances, including the way vendors target their promotional spending, and our ability to effectively manage these programs could significantly impact our margins and profitability. We engage in a wide variety of promotional programs cooperatively with our vendors. The nature of these programs and the allocation of dollars among them evolve over time as the parties assess the results of specific promotions and plan for future promotions. These programs require careful management in order for us to maintain or improve margins while at the same time driving sales for us and for the vendors. A reduction in overall promotional spending or a shift in promotional spending away from certain types of promotions that we have historically utilized could have a significant impact on our gross profit margin and profitability. Our ability to anticipate and react to changes in promotional spending by, among other things, planning and implementing alternative programs that are expected to be mutually beneficial to the manufacturers and us, will be an important factor in maintaining or improving margins and profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage these programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our debt instruments include financial and other covenants that limit our operating flexibility and may affect our future business strategies and operating results. Covenants in the documents governing our outstanding or future debt, or our future debt levels, could limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to respond to market conditions and opportunities as well as capital needs could be constrained by the degree to which we are leveraged, by changes in the availability or cost of capital, and by contractual limitations on the degree to which we may, without the consent of our lenders, take actions such as engaging in mergers, acquisitions or divestitures, incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, repurchasing shares of our stock and making investments, loans or advances. If needs or opportunities were identified that would require financial resources beyond existing resources, obtaining those resources could increase our borrowing costs, further reduce financial flexibility, require alterations in strategies and affect future operating results. If we were to encounter difficulties obtaining access to capital markets for such needs or opportunities, this could negatively impact our future operating results. Legal, governmental, legislative or administrative proceedings, disputes or actions that result in adverse outcomes or unfavorable changes in government regulations may affect our businesses and operating results. Adverse outcomes in litigation, governmental, legislative or administrative proceedings and/or other disputes may result in significant liability to the Company and affect our profitability or impose restrictions on the manner in which we conduct our business. Our businesses are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations with which we must comply. Changes in applicable laws and regulations that impose additional requirements or restrictions on the manner in which we operate our businesses could increase our operating costs. 14 Table of Contents Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business and results. The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, store closures, leases, income taxes and share-based payments, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. We may experience technology failures which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have large, complex information technology systems that are important to our business operations. Although we have an off-site disaster recovery center and have installed security programs and procedures, security could be compromised and technology failures and systems disruptions could occur. This could result in a loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur significant costs, including payments to third parties for damages. Severe weather and natural disasters can adversely impact our operations, our suppliers or the availability and cost of products we purchase. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters could damage our properties and adversely impact the geographic areas where we conduct our business. Severe weather and natural disasters could also affect the suppliers from whom we procure products and could cause disruptions in our operations and affect our supply chain capabilities. In addition, unseasonably adverse climatic conditions that impact growing conditions and the crops of food producers may adversely affect the availability or cost of certain products. Unions may attempt to organize our employees. While our management believes that our employee relations are good, we cannot be assured that we will not experience pressure from labor unions or become the target of campaigns similar to those faced by our competitors. The potential for unionization could increase if the United States Congress passes the Federal Employee Free Choice Act legislation. We have always respected our employees’ right to unionize or not to unionize. However, the unionization of a significant portion of our workforce could increase our overall costs at the affected locations and adversely affect our flexibility to run our business in the most efficient manner to remain competitive or acquire new business. In addition, significant union representation would require us to negotiate wages, salaries, benefits and other terms with many of our employees collectively and could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our labor costs or otherwise restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. 15 Table of Contents Costs related to a multi-employer pension plan, which has liabilities in excess of plan assets, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company participates in the Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Funds (“CSS” or “the plan”), a multi-employer pension plan, for certain unionized employees. The Company’s contributions to the plan may escalate in future years should we withdraw from the plan or factors outside the Company’s control, including the bankruptcy or insolvency of other participating employers, actions taken by trustees who manage the plan, government regulations, or a funding deficiency in the plan. Escalating costs associated with the plan may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. CSS adopted a rehabilitation plan as a result of its actuarial certification for the plan year beginning January 1, 2008 which placed the plan in critical status. The Actuarial Certification of Plan Status as of of January 1, 2010 certified that the Central States Pension Fund remains in critical status with a funded percentage of 63.4%. The plan adopted an updated rehabilitation plan effective December 31, 2010 which implements additional measures to improve the plan’s funded level, including establishing an increased minimum retirement age and actuarially adjusting certain pre-age 65 benefits for participants who retire after July 1, 2011. Despite these changes, we can make no assurances of the extent to which the updated rehabilitation plan will improve the funded status of the plan. Effective July 9, 2009, the trustees of CSS formalized a decision to terminate the participation of YRC Worldwide, Inc. (formerly Yellow Freight and Roadway Express, “YRC”) and USF Holland, Inc. from the pension fund. Under an agreement between the Teamsters and YRC dated September 24, 2010, which was eventually ratified by the membership, YRC resumed participation in the plan effective June 1, 2011 at a reduced contribution rate. At this time, there is no change to the funding obligations due from other participating employers in the fund as a result of this agreement; however, further developments may necessitate a reevaluation of the funding obligations at some point in the future. The underfunding of the plan is not a direct obligation or liability of the Company. Moreover, if the Company were to exit certain markets or otherwise cease making contributions to the Plan, the Company could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability. However, the amount of any increase in contributions will depend upon several factors, including the number of employers contributing to the Plan, results of the Company’s collective bargaining efforts, investment returns on assets held by the Plan, actions taken by the trustees of the Plan, and actions that the Federal government may take. We are currently unable to reasonably estimate a liability. Any adjustment for withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and can be reasonably estimated. Increases in employee benefit costs and other labor relations issues may lead to labor disputes and disruption of our businesses. If we are unable to control health care costs, other wage and benefit costs, or gain operational flexibility under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate the terms of any expiring or expired agreement in a manner that is favorable to the Company. Therefore, potential work disruptions from labor disputes could result, which may affect future revenues and profitability. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims, including claims concerning food and prepared food products. The sale of food and prepared food products for human consumption may involve the risk of injury. Injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling and transportation phases. We cannot be sure that consumption of products we distribute and sell will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for products we distribute and sell, or cause production and delivery disruptions. We may need to recall products if any of these products become unfit for consumption. Costs associated with these potential actions could adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Threats or potential threats to security may adversely affect our business. Threats or acts of terror, data theft, information espionage, or other criminal activity directed at the food industry, the transportation industry, or computer or communications systems, including security measures implemented in recognition of actual or potential threats, could increase security costs and adversely affect our operations. We depend upon vendors to supply us with quality merchandise at the right time and at the right price. We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing, or access to new products and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. Sales demands may lead to insufficient in-stock positions of our merchandise. Significant changes in our ability to obtain adequate product supplies due to weather, food contamination, regulatory actions, labor supply, or product vendor defaults or disputes that limit our ability to procure products for sale to customers could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Maintaining our reputation and corporate image is essential to our business success. Our success depends on the value and strength of our corporate name and reputation. Our name, reputation and image are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast and social media and other forms of Internet-based communications. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The foregoing discussion of risk factors is not exhaustive and we do not undertake to revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date the statement is made. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 