ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below in evaluating Nash Finch because any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us may also materially and adversely affect us. We face substantial competition and our competitors may have superior resources, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our financial performance. Our businesses are highly competitive and are characterized by high inventory turnover, narrow profit margins and increasing consolidation. Our food distribution and military businesses compete not only with local, regional and national food distributors, but also with vertically integrated national and regional chains that employ a variety of formats, including supercenters, supermarkets and warehouse clubs. Our retail business, focused in the Upper Midwest, has historically competed with traditional grocery stores and is increasingly competing with alternative store formats such as supercenters, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and extreme value food stores. Some of our food distribution and retail competitors are substantially larger and may have greater financial resources and geographic scope, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do, intensifying price competition at the wholesale and retail levels. Industry consolidation and the expansion of alternative store formats, which have gained and continue to gain market share at the expense of traditional grocery stores, tend to produce even stronger competition for our food retail business and for the independent customers of our distribution business. To the extent our independent customers are acquired by our competitors or are not successful in competing with other retail chains and non-traditional competitors, sales by our distribution business will also be affected. If we fail to effectively implement strategies to respond to these competitive pressures, our operating results could be adversely affected by price reductions, decreased sales or margins, or loss of market share. In the military food distribution business we face competition from large national and regional food distributors as well as smaller food distributors. Due to the narrow margins in the military food distribution industry, it is of critical importance for distributors to achieve economies of scale, which are typically a function of the density or concentration of military bases in the geographic markets a distributor serves and a distributor’s share of that market. As a result, no distributor in this industry has a nationwide presence and it is very difficult, other than through acquisitions, to expand operations in this industry beyond the geographic regions where we currently can utilize our warehouse and distribution capacity. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions, economic downturns or uncertainty which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The food distribution and retail industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions, particularly those that influence consumer confidence, spending and buying habits. Economic downturns or uncertainty may not only adversely affect overall demand and intensify price competition, but also cause consumers to “trade down” by purchasing lower priced, and often lower margin, items and to make fewer purchases in traditional supermarket channels. These consumer responses, coupled with the impact of general economic and other factors such as increasingly volatile energy costs, changes in interest rates, food price inflation or deflation, employment trends in our markets and labor costs, can also have a significant impact on our operating results. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause these factors to change with a greater degree of frequency and magnitude. We may not be able to pass on increased commodity costs to our customers, therefore, any such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our businesses could be negatively affected if we fail to retain existing customers or attract significant numbers of new customers. Growing and increasing the profitability of our distribution businesses is dependent in large measure upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional distribution customers through our existing network of distribution centers, enabling us to more effectively utilize the fixed assets in those businesses. Our ability to achieve these goals is dependent, in part, upon our ability to continue to provide a high level of customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency, particularly in the process of integrating new customers into our distribution system, and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our independent customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to attract significant numbers of new customers and attrition among our existing customer base could increase, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Growing and increasing the profitability of our retail business is dependent on increasing our market share in the markets our retail stores are located. We plan to invest in redesigning some of our retail stores into alternative formats in order to attract new customers and increase our market share. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract significant numbers of new retail customers. Our military segment operations are dependant upon domestic and international military distribution, and a change in the military commissary system could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Because our military segment sells and distributes grocery products to military commissaries and exchanges in the U.S. and overseas, any material changes in the commissary system, in military staffing levels or in locations of bases may have a corresponding impact on the sales and operating performance of this segment. These changes could include privatization of some or all of the military commissary system, relocation or consolidation in the number of commissaries and exchanges, base closings, troop redeployments or consolidations in the geographic areas containing commissaries and exchanges served by us, or a reduction in the number of persons having access to the commissaries and exchanges. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to improve the competitive position of our retail operations. Our retail food business faces competition from regional and national chains operating under a variety of formats that devote square footage to selling food (i.e., supercenters, supermarkets, extreme value stores, membership warehouse clubs, dollar stores, drug stores, convenience stores, various formats selling prepared foods, and other specialty and discount retailers), as well as from independent food store operators in the markets where we have retail operations. During fiscal 2006, we announced new strategic initiatives designed to create value within our organization. These initiatives include designing and reformatting our base of retail stores into alternative formats to increase overall retail sales performance. In connection with these efforts, there are numerous risks and uncertainties, including our ability to successfully identify which course of action will be most financially advantageous for each retail store, our ability to identify those initiatives that will be the most effective in improving the competitive position of the retail stores we retain, our ability to efficiently and timely implement these initiatives, and the response of competitors to these initiatives. If we are unable to improve the overall competitive position of our remaining retail stores the operating performance of that segment may continue to decline and we may need to recognize additional impairments of our long-lived assets and goodwill, be compelled to close or dispose of additional stores and may incur restructuring or other charges to our earnings associated with such closure and disposition activities. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace any of the revenue lost from these closed or sold stores from our other operations. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from the implementation of new strategic initiatives. We have begun taking action to improve our competitive performance through a series of strategic initiatives. The goal of this effort is to develop and implement a comprehensive and competitive business strategy, addressing the food distribution industry environment and our position within the industry and ultimately create increased shareholder value. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategic initiatives and realize the intended synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. Many of the other risk factors mentioned, such as increased competition, may limit our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and expand our business. Our efforts to capitalize on business opportunities may not bring the intended results. Assumptions underlying estimates of expected revenue growth or overall cost savings may not be met or economic conditions may deteriorate. Customer acceptance of new retail formats developed may not be as anticipated, hampering our ability to attract new retail customers or maintain our existing retail customer base. Additionally, our management may have its attention diverted from other important activities while trying to execute new strategic initiatives. If these or other factors limit our ability to execute our strategic initiatives, our expectations of future results of operations, including expected revenue growth and cost savings, may not be met. Changes in consumer spending and buying patterns. Significant changes in consumer buying patterns due to shifts in shopping preferences, adverse local economic conditions, or entry of new stores providing similar products in the geographic areas where we operate could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and profitability. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired by the risks and costs associated with the efforts to grow our business through acquisitions. Efforts to grow our food distribution segment may include acquisitions. Acquisitions entail various risks such as identifying suitable candidates, effecting acquisitions at acceptable rates of return, obtaining adequate financing and acceptable terms and conditions. Our success depends in a large part on factors such as our ability to locate suitable acquisition candidates and successfully integrate such operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner while retaining the customer base of the acquired operations. If we cannot locate suitable acquisition candidates, successfully integrate these operations and retain the customer base, we may experience material adverse consequences to our results of operations and financial condition. The integration of separately managed businesses operating in different markets involves a number of risks, including the following: • demands on management related to the significant increase in our size after the acquisition of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and business practices, such as those involving vendor promotions, and of geographically dispersed personnel and operations; • difficulties in the integration of departments, information technology systems, operating methods, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards and controls, including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies; and • expenses of any undisclosed liabilities, such as those involving environmental or legal matters. Successful integration of new operations will depend on our ability to manage those operations, fully assimilate the operations into our distribution network, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened product offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, maintain the customer base and eliminate redundant and excess costs. We may not realize the anticipated benefits or savings from an acquisition in the time frame anticipated, if at all, or such benefits and savings may include higher costs than anticipated. 10 Table of Contents Substantial operating losses may occur if the customers to whom we extend credit or for whom we guarantee loan or lease obligations fail to repay us. In the ordinary course of business, we extend credit, including loans, to our food distribution customers, and provide financial assistance to some customers by guaranteeing their loan or lease obligations. We also lease store sites for sublease to independent retailers. Generally, our loans and other financial accommodations are extended to small businesses that are unrated and may have limited access to conventional financing. As of December 29, 2007, we had loans, net of reserves, of $16.0 million outstanding to 38 of our food distribution customers and had guaranteed outstanding debt and lease obligations of food distribution customers totaling $7.2 million, including $3.0 million in loan guarantees to one retailer. In the normal course of business, we also sublease retail properties and assign retail property leases to third parties. As of December 29, 2007, the present value of our maximum contingent liability exposure, net of reserves, with respect to subleases and assigned leases was $33.5 million and $11.0 million, respectively. While we seek to obtain security interests and other credit support in connection with the financial accommodations we extend, such collateral may not be sufficient to cover our exposure. Greater than expected losses from existing or future credit extensions, loans, guarantee commitments or sublease arrangements could negatively and potentially materially impact our operating results and financial condition. Changes in vendor promotions or allowances, including the way vendors target their promotional spending, and our ability to effectively manage these programs could significantly impact our margins and profitability. We engage in a wide variety of promotional programs cooperatively with our vendors. The nature of these programs and the allocation of dollars among them evolve over time as the parties assess the results of specific promotions and plan for future promotions. These programs require careful management in order for us to maintain or improve margins while at the same time driving sales for us and for the vendors. A reduction in overall promotional spending or a shift in promotional spending away from certain types of promotions that we have historically utilized could have a significant impact on our gross profit margin and profitability. Our ability to anticipate and react to changes in promotional spending by, among other things, planning and implementing alternative programs that are expected to be mutually beneficial to the manufacturers and us, will be an important factor in maintaining or improving margins and profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage these programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our debt instruments include financial and other covenants that limit our operating flexibility and may affect our future business strategies and operating results. Covenants in the documents governing our outstanding or future debt, including our senior secured credit facility, or our future debt levels, could limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to respond to market conditions and opportunities as well as capital needs could be constrained by the degree to which we are leveraged, by changes in the availability or cost of capital, and by contractual limitations on the degree to which we may, without the consent of our lenders, take actions such as engaging in mergers, acquisitions or divestitures, incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, repurchasing shares of our stock and making investments, loans or advances. If needs or opportunities were identified that would require financial resources beyond existing resources, obtaining those resources could increase our borrowing costs, further reduce financial flexibility, require alterations in strategies and affect future operating results. Legal, governmental, legislative or administrative proceedings, disputes or actions that result in adverse outcomes or unfavorable changes in government regulations or accounting standards may affect our businesses and operating results. Adverse outcomes in litigation, governmental, legislative or administrative proceedings and/or other disputes may result in significant liability to the Company and affect our profitability or impose restrictions on the manner in which we conduct our business. Our businesses are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations with which we must comply. Changes in applicable laws and regulations that 11 Table of Contents impose additional requirements or restrictions on the manner in which we operate our businesses could increase our operating costs. In addition, changes in accounting standards could impact our reported revenue and profitability as reported in our financial statements. We may experience technology failures which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have large, complex information technology systems that are important to our business operations. Although we have an off-site disaster recovery center and have installed security programs and procedures, security could be compromised and technology failures and systems disruptions could occur. This could result in a loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur significant costs, including payments to third parties for damages. Severe weather and natural disasters can adversely impact our operations, our suppliers or the availability and cost of products we purchase. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters could damage our properties and adversely impact the geographic areas where we conduct our business. Severe weather and natural disasters could also affect the suppliers from whom we procure products and could cause disruptions in our operations and affect our supply chain efficiencies. In addition, unseasonably adverse climatic conditions that impact growing conditions and the crops of food producers may adversely affect the availability or cost of certain products. Increases in employee benefit costs and other labor relations issues may lead to labor disputes and disruption of our businesses. Some of our employees are participants in collective bargaining agreements, and associates at some of our locations participate in multi-employer health and pension plans. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. A reduction in the number of employers contributing to the plans we participate in could result in a significant increase in the amount of future contributions we will be required to provide to the plans. Contributions to these plans may continue to increase and the benefit levels and other issues may continue to create collective bargaining challenges, which could increase our costs and materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, potential labor disputes may affect our ability to distribute our products and adversely impact the results of our operations. If we are unable to control health care, pension and wage costs, or gain operational flexibility under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate the terms of any expiring or expired agreement in a manner that is favorable to the Company. Therefore, potential work disruptions from labor disputes could result, which may affect future revenues and profitability. Threats or potential threats to security or food safety may adversely affect our business. Threats or acts of terror, data theft, information espionage, or other criminal activity directed at the food industry, the transportation industry, or computer or communications systems, including security measures implemented in recognition of actual or potential threats, could increase security costs and adversely affect our operations. Other events that give rise to actual or potential food contamination, drug contamination, or food-borne illness could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Unanticipated problems with product procurement. Significant changes in our ability to obtain adequate product supplies due to weather, food contamination, regulatory actions, labor supply, or product vendor defaults or disputes that limit our ability to procure products for sale to customers could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The foregoing discussion of risk factors is not exhaustive and we do not undertake to revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date the statement is made. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 