Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We face significant competition. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and our ability to effectively compete in those markets is critical to our future success. Our future performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to react to competitive pricing pressures, our ability to lower manufacturing costs and consolidate production facilities, our ability to introduce new value added products and services to the market and our ability to react to the commoditization of products. Our performance could also be impacted by external factors, such as: • increasing pricing pressures from competitors in the markets for our products; • a faster decline than anticipated in the more mature, higher margin product lines, such as heat seal and dry gum products, due to changing technologies; 9 Table of Contents • natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, which could cause our customers to close a number or all of their stores or operations for an extended period of time causing our sales to be reduced during the period of closure; • our ability to pass on raw material price increases to customers; • our ability to pass on increased freight cost due to fuel price increases; • our ability to pass on utility cost increases; and • our ability to capture market share in the radio frequency identification label market. Our Imaging Supplies and Specialty Paper Products segments operate in New Hampshire, which has relatively higher labor and utility costs compared to other parts of the United States where some of our competitors are located or operate. Some of our competitors may be larger in size or scope than we are, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale on a global basis or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions. In addition, there has been an increasing trend among our customers towards consolidation. With fewer customers in the market for our products, the strength of our negotiating position with these customers could be weakened, which could have an adverse effect on our pricing, margins and profitability. Increases in raw material costs or the unavailability of raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. We depend on outside suppliers for most of the raw materials used in our business. Although we believe that adequate supplies of the raw materials we use are available, any significant decrease in supplies, any increase in costs or a greater increase in delivery costs for these materials could result in a decrease in our margins, which could harm our financial condition. For example, our Specialty Paper Products and Label Products segments are impacted by the economic conditions and the plant capacity dynamics within the paper and label industry. In general, the availability and pricing of commodity paper such as uncoated face sheet is affected by the capacity of the paper mills producing the products. Increases in the level at which paper manufacturers, or other producers of the raw materials we use in our business, operate could cause increases in the costs of raw materials, which could harm our financial condition if we are unable to recover the cost from our customers. Conversely, an excess supply of materials could reduce and result in lower selling prices and the risk of eroded margins. We have periodically been able to pass on significant raw material cost increases through price increases to our customers. Nonetheless, our results of operations for individual quarters can and have been negatively impacted by delays between the time of raw material cost increases and price increases of our products to customers. Additionally, we may be unable to increase our prices to offset higher raw material costs due to the failure of competitors to increase prices and customer resistance to price increases. Additionally, we rely on our suppliers for deliveries of raw materials. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver raw materials to us for an extended period of time, there is no assurance that our raw material requirements would be met by other suppliers on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit plans will require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. Funding for the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor is determined based upon the funded status of the plans and a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and the discount rate. As of December 31, 2002, we froze benefits under two of these pension plans: the Nashua Corporation Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. We and the hourly employees located in Omaha, Nebraska agreed to freeze the benefits under the Hourly Employees Retirement Plan for Omaha hourly employees effective March 31, 2006. Due to declining returns in the investment portfolio and the discount rate of our defined benefit pension plans 10 Table of Contents in recent years and the use of updated mortality tables, the defined benefit plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2005 by $32.2 million, based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of FAS 87 and after giving effect to the planned curtailment of benefits. As a result, we expect to experience an increase in our future cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans. We expect to make a contribution of approximately $1.0 million in 2006 and $9.0 million in 2007. In the event that actual results differ from the actuarial assumptions, the funded status of our defined benefit plans may change either upwards or downwards. Any deficiency could result in additional future charges to equity and against earnings and increase our required cash contributions. Additionally, legislative changes were recently proposed in the U.S. Congress that, if enacted into law, could impact our defined benefit pension plans by altering the manner in which liabilities are determined for the purpose of calculating required pension contributions and the timing and manner in which required contributions to underfunded pension plans would be made. The funding requirements for our defined benefit pension plans could be significantly affected by these proposed changes, if they are adopted. Our future results may be adversely affected by receiving fewer savings from our corporate initiatives than expected. During the past five years, we have pursued a strategy to reduce costs, streamline operations and resolve legacy issues that in the past have affected our profitability. However, there can be no assurance that all of the future estimated savings from these initiatives will be realized. Although we currently expect to achieve our goals, we may encounter unanticipated difficulties in implementing our initiatives. We are dependent on key personnel and on the retention and recruiting of key personnel for our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key administrative manufacturing, sales and senior management personnel. However, our strategy to reduce costs, streamline operations and resolve legacy issues may adversely impact our workforce. We do not have employment agreements and do not maintain key person life insurance on any executives or key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development and other business objectives and could harm our business. While we have entered into executive severance agreements with many of our key employees, there can be no assurance that the severance agreements will provide adequate incentives to retain these employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees for key positions. There is competition for qualified employees within our industry. We may not be able to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience from time to time in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for certain positions. New technologies or changes in consumer preferences may affect our ability to compete successfully. We believe that new technologies or novel processes may emerge and that existing technologies may be further developed in the fields in which we operate. These technologies or processes could have an impact on production methods or on product quality in these fields. For example, we believe that a trend in the label business is the transition of barcode labels used in warehousing and distribution applications to radio frequency identification (RFID) labels. Accordingly, we installed inlet insertion equipment for RFID labels in the first quarter of 2005 and we continue to invest in technology and equipment that should allow us to print and convert RFID labels. However, the widespread use and acceptance of RFID labels cannot be assured. Unexpected rapid changes in employed technologies or the development of novel processes that affect our operations and product range could render the technologies we utilize, or the products we produce, obsolete or less competitive in the future. Difficulties in having access to new technologies may impede us 11 Table of Contents from implementing them and competitive pressures may force us to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost. Any such development could materially and adversely impact our revenues or profitability, or both. Additionally, the preferences of our customers may change as the result of the availability of alternative products or services, which could impact consumption of our products. Our strategy to acquire complementary businesses and to divest non-strategic businesses and real estate could cause our financial results to fluctuate and could expose us to significant business risks. An important aspect of our business strategy is to make strategic acquisitions of businesses that complement our Label and Converting businesses and will expand our customer base and markets, improve distribution efficiencies and enhance our technological capabilities. Acquisitions could result in the consolidation of manufacturing plants. We are in the process of closing our St. Louis, Missouri label facility and consolidating the St. Louis label business into the Tennessee, Nebraska and Florida facilities. We also plan on divesting businesses that are not core to our future growth and profitability. We also intend on divesting of non-strategic real estate in New Hampshire and Nebraska. These potential acquisitions, plant consolidations and possible divestitures could cause our financial results and cash flows to fluctuate. Financial risks from potential acquisitions include the use of our cash resources and incurring debt and liabilities. Further, there are possible operational risks including difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, products, technology, information systems and personnel of acquired businesses; the loss of key personnel of acquired businesses; and difficulties honoring commitments made to customers of the acquired businesses prior to the acquisition. There also exists a potential risk of increased direct and indirect costs associated with labor discontent and the availability of skilled labor relative to a plant consolidation strategy. Such costs could impact our financial results and our ability to successfully implement plant consolidations. Our plans to divest excess real estate could impact our manufacturing capabilities, and result in a decision to exit businesses. There is a risk that the cost associated with the divestiture and exit of certain businesses could negatively impact our businesses. The failure to adequately address these risks could adversely affect our business. We may be involved in litigation relating to our intellectual property rights, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights, which could result in substantial costs to us and a substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors or other parties could use the intellectual property that we have developed to enhance their products or make products similar to ours and compete more efficiently with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. While we have attempted to ensure that our products and the operations of our business do not infringe on other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our competitors and other parties may assert that our products and operations may be covered by patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents upon which our products may infringe. If any of our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from selling them unless we obtain a license or redesign the products to avoid infringement. A license may not always be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign any of our products to avoid infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, can be expensive and time-consuming and can divert management’s attention from our core business. 12 Table of Contents Our information systems are critical to our business, and a failure of those systems could materially harm us. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information. If our information systems fail to perform as expected, or if we suffer an interruption, malfunction or loss of information processing capabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time and attention. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While the SEC has recently announced an additional one-year extension for non-accelerated filers for compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which will require us to begin to comply with the Section 404 requirements for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we still expect our compliance efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Additionally, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 