Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We face significant competition. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and our ability to effectively compete in those markets is critical to our future success. Our future performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to react to competitive pricing pressures, our ability to hire qualified sales personnel, our ability to maintain manufacturing costs, our ability to introduce new value-added products and services to the market and our ability to react to the commoditization of products. Our performance could also be impacted by external factors, such as: • increasing pricing pressures from competitors in the markets for our products; • a faster decline than anticipated in the more mature, higher margin product lines, such as heat seal and dry- gum products, due to changing technologies; • natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and pandemic events, which could cause our customers to close a number or all of their stores or operations for an extended period of time causing our sales to be reduced during the period of closure; • our ability to pass on raw material price increases to customers; 8 Table of Contents • our ability to pass on increased freight cost due to fuel price fluctuations; and • our ability to pass on manufacturing cost increases. Our Specialty Paper Products segment operates a manufacturing facility in New Hampshire, which has relatively higher operating costs compared to manufacturing locations in other parts of the United States where some of our competitors are located or operate. Some of our competitors may be larger in size or scope than we are, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale on a global basis or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions. In addition, there has been an increasing trend among our customers towards consolidation. With fewer customers in the market for our products, the strength of our negotiating position with these customers could be weakened, which could have an adverse effect on our pricing, margins and profitability. We have a wide diversity of customers but there are a number of individual customers that could impact our financial condition. The business risk associated with these customers relates to potential sales declines due to their individual business needs or loss of business to competitors and increased credit risk due to the concentration of these customers. Increases in raw material costs or the unavailability of raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. We depend on outside suppliers for most of the raw materials used in our business. Although we believe that adequate supplies of the raw materials we use are available, any significant decrease in supplies, any increase in costs or a greater increase in delivery costs for these materials could result in a decrease in our margins, which could harm our financial condition. Our Specialty Paper Products and Label Products segments are impacted by the economic conditions and the plant capacity dynamics within the paper and label industry. In general, the availability and pricing of commodity paper such as uncoated face sheet is affected by the capacity of the paper mills producing the products. Cost increases at paper manufacturers, or other producers of the raw materials which we use in our business, and capacity constraints in paper manufacturers’ operations could cause increases in the costs of raw materials, which could harm our financial condition if we are unable to recover the cost from our customers. Conversely, an excess supply of materials by manufacturers could result in lower selling prices and the risk of eroded margins. We have periodically been able to pass on significant raw material cost increases through price increases to our customers. Nonetheless, our results of operations for individual quarters can and have been negatively impacted by delays between the time of raw material cost increases and price increases for our products to customers. Additionally, we may be unable to increase our prices to offset higher raw material costs due to the failure of competitors to increase prices and customer resistance to price increases. Additionally, we rely on our suppliers for deliveries of raw materials. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver raw materials to us for an extended period of time, there is no assurance that our raw material requirements would be met by other suppliers on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. A decline in returns on the investment portfolio of our defined benefit plans, changes in mortality tables and interest rates could require us to increase cash contributions to the plans and negatively impact our financial statements. Funding for the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor is determined based upon the funded status of the plans and a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate utilized to compute pension liabilities. All of our defined benefit pension plan benefits are frozen. The defined benefit plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2007 by approximately $24.7 million after utilizing the actuarial methods and assumptions for purposes of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions and FAS 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an Amendment of FAS Nos. 87, 86, 106 and 132(R). As a result, we expect to experience an increase in our future cash contributions to our defined benefit pension 9 Table of Contents plans. We contributed $5.3 million in 2007 and $1.8 million in 2006. In the event that actual results differ from the actuarial assumptions, the funded status of our defined benefit plans may change and any such resulting deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and against earnings and increase our required cash contributions. We are dependent on key personnel and on the retention and recruiting of key personnel for our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key administrative, manufacturing, sales and senior management personnel. We do not have employment agreements with most of our executives and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of these executives. We do have an employment agreement with Thomas G. Brooker, who has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since May 4, 2006. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could harm our business. While we have entered into executive severance agreements with many of our key employees, there can be no assurance that the severance agreements will provide adequate incentives to retain these employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees for key positions. There is market competition for qualified employees. We may not be able to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience from time to time, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for certain positions. New technologies or changes in consumer preferences may affect our ability to compete successfully. We believe that new technologies or novel processes may emerge and that existing technologies may be further developed in the fields in which we operate. These technologies or processes could have an impact on production methods or on product quality in these fields. Unexpected rapid changes in employed technologies or the development of novel processes that affect our operations and product range could render the technologies we utilize, or the products we produce, obsolete or less competitive in the future. Difficulties in assessing new technologies may impede us from implementing them and competitive pressures may force us to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost. Any such development could materially and adversely impact our revenues or profitability, or both. Additionally, the preferences of our customers may change as the result of the availability of alternative products or services, which could impact consumption of our products. We may be involved in litigation relating to our intellectual property rights, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights, which could result in substantial costs to us and a substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors or other parties could use the intellectual property that we have developed to enhance their products or make products similar to ours and compete more efficiently with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. While we have attempted to ensure that our products and the operations of our business do not infringe on other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our competitors and other parties may assert that our products and operations may be covered by patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents upon which our products may infringe. If any of our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from selling them unless we obtain a license or redesign the products to avoid 10 Table of Contents infringement. A license may not always be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign any of our products to avoid infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, can be expensive and time-consuming and can divert management’s attention from our core business. Our information systems are critical to our business, and a failure of those systems could materially harm us. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information. If our information systems fail to perform as expected, or if we suffer an interruption, malfunction or loss of information processing capabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time and attention. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We began complying with the Section 404 requirements for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We expect our compliance efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Additionally, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 