Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We face significant competition and may be impacted by the financial crisis in the global economy. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and our ability to effectively compete in those markets is critical to our future success. Our future performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to react to competitive pricing pressures, our ability to hire qualified sales personnel, our ability to maintain competitive manufacturing costs, our ability to introduce new value-added 8 Table of Contents products and services to the market and our ability to react to the commoditization of products. Our performance could also be impacted by external factors, such as: • deteriorating general economic conditions, which result in lower sales or movement of products by our customers causing our sales to decline; • the availability of financing due to changes in the banking and financing industry could cause certain of our customers, especially in the retail and construction industry, to be impacted by adverse conditions whereby customer sales decline and/or customer reduction in size of their business through either store closures or the consolidation of warehouses causing our sales to decline; • increasing pricing pressures from competitors in the markets for our products; • a faster decline than anticipated in the more mature, higher margin product lines, such as bond, carbonless, ribbons, heat seal and dry gum products, due to changing technologies and a decrease in demand due to slowness in the economy; • natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and pandemic events, which could cause our customers to close a number or all of their stores or operations for an extended period of time causing our sales to be reduced during the period of closure; • our ability to pass on raw material price increases to customers; • our ability to pass on increased freight cost due to fuel price fluctuations; and • our ability to pass on manufacturing cost increases. Our Specialty Paper Products segment operates a manufacturing facility in New Hampshire, which has relatively higher operating costs compared to manufacturing locations in other parts of the United States where some of our competitors are located or operate. Some of our competitors may be larger in size or scope than we are and have more modern equipment, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale on a global basis or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse market conditions. In addition, there has been an increasing trend among our customers towards either consolidation or exiting businesses due to the current financial and economic factors. With fewer customers in the market for our products, the strength of our negotiating position with customers could be weakened, which could have an adverse effect on our pricing, margins, profitability and recoverability of assets including goodwill. We have a wide diversity of customers but there are a number of individual customers that could impact our financial condition. The business risk associated with these customers relates to potential sales declines due to their individual business needs or loss of business to competitors and increased credit risk due to the concentration of these customers. We may be required to record a significant impairment charge if the carrying value of our goodwill exceeds its fair value. Our share value and market capitalization have been significantly impacted by extreme volatility in the United States’ equity and credit markets and has recently been below our net book value. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we may be required to record an impairment charge if changes in circumstances or events indicate that the carrying values of our goodwill and intangible assets exceed their fair value and are not recoverable. Any significant and other than temporary decrease in our market capitalization could be an indicator that the carrying values of our goodwill exceed their fair value, which may result in our recording an impairment charge. In this time of economic uncertainty, we are unable to predict economic trends, but we continue to monitor the impact of changes in economic and financial conditions on our operations and on the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets. Should the value of our goodwill be impaired, our consolidated earnings and shareholders’ equity may be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our credit facility contains financial covenants, and our failure to comply with any of those covenants could materially adversely impact us. Our credit facility imposes operating restrictions on us in the form of financial covenants, including requirements that we maintain specified fixed charge coverage ratios and funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratios. If we fail to comply with these financial covenants and do not obtain a waiver from our lender, we would be in default under the credit facility and our lender could terminate the facility and demand immediate repayment of all outstanding loans under the credit facility. The declaration of an event of default under the credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and we could find it difficult to obtain other bank lines or credit facilities on comparable terms. Although we were not in compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio and the funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio financial covenants under our credit facility at December 31, 2008, in March 2009 our lender waived our non-compliance in connection with an amendment to our credit facility. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to obtain a waiver to any non-compliance with the financial covenants in the credit facility in the future. In connection with the March 2009 amendment to our credit facility, the financial covenants in the credit facility were amended. While we believe that we will be in compliance with the financial covenants in the amended credit facility, in the event our results of operations do not meet forecasted results, we may not be in compliance with those covenants. Alternative forms of financing may be available to us, however, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us. If the financial condition of our customers declines, our credit risk could increase. The current challenging economic environment may subject us to increased risk of non-payment of our accounts receivable. A significant delay in the collection of funds or a reduction of funds collected may impact our liquidity or increase bad debts. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Increases in raw material costs or the unavailability of raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. We depend on outside suppliers for the raw materials used in our business. Although we believe that adequate supplies of the raw materials we use are available, any significant decrease in supplies, any increase in costs or a greater increase in delivery costs for these materials could result in a decrease in our margins, which could harm our financial condition. Our Specialty Paper Products and Label Products segments are impacted by the economic conditions and plant capacity dynamics within the paper and label industries. In general, the availability and pricing of commodity paper such as uncoated facesheet is affected by the capacity of the paper mills producing the products. Cost increases at paper manufacturers, or other producers of the raw materials which we use in our business, and capacity constraints in paper manufacturers’ operations could cause increases in the costs of raw materials, which could harm our financial condition if we are unable to recover the increased cost from our customers. Conversely, an excess supply of materials or manufacturing capacity by manufacturers could result in lower cost to us and lower selling prices to customers and the risk of lower margins for us. We have periodically been able to pass on significant raw material cost increases through price increases to our customers. Nonetheless, our results of operations for individual quarters can and have been negatively impacted by delays between the time of raw material cost increases and price increases for our products to customers. We may be unable to increase our prices to offset higher raw material costs due to the failure of competitors to increase prices and customer resistance to price increases. Additionally, we rely on our suppliers for deliveries of raw materials. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver raw materials to us for an extended period of time, there is no assurance that our raw material requirements would be met by other suppliers on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents A decline in returns on the investment portfolio of our defined benefit plans, changes in mortality tables and interest rates could require us to increase cash contributions to the plans and negatively impact our financial statements. Funding for the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor is determined based upon the funded status of the plans and a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate utilized to compute pension liabilities. All of our defined benefit pension plan benefits are frozen. The defined benefit plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2008 by approximately $41.4 million after utilizing the actuarial methods and assumptions for purposes of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions, and FAS 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an Amendment of FAS Nos. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). As a result, we expect to experience an increase in our future cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans. We contributed $5.3 million in 2007 and $4.9 million in 2008. In the event that actual results differ from the actuarial assumptions and the credit crisis in the current financial markets negatively impacts the valuation of our pension investments, the funded status of our defined benefit plans may change and any such resulting deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and against earnings and increase our required contributions and thereby impact our liquidity. We depend on key personnel and on the retention and recruiting of key personnel for our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key administrative, manufacturing, sales and senior management personnel. We do not have employment agreements with most of our executives and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of these executives. We do have an employment agreement with Thomas G. Brooker, who has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since May 4, 2006. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could harm our business. While we have entered into executive severance agreements with many of our key employees, there can be no assurance that the severance agreements will provide adequate incentives to retain these employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees for key positions. There is market competition for qualified employees. We may not be able to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience from time to time, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for certain positions. New technologies or changes in consumer preferences may affect our ability to compete successfully. We believe that new technologies or novel processes may emerge and that existing technologies may be further developed in the fields in which we operate. These technologies or processes could have an impact on production methods or on product quality in these fields. Unexpected rapid changes in employed technologies or the development of novel processes that affect our operations and product range could render the technologies we utilize, or the products we produce, obsolete or less competitive in the future. Difficulties in assessing new technologies may impede us from implementing them and competitive pressures may force us to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost. Any such development could materially and adversely impact our revenues or profitability, or both. Additionally, the preferences of our customers may change as a result of the availability of alternative products or services which could impact consumption of our products. Litigation relating to our intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights, which could result in substantial costs to us 11 Table of Contents and a substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors or other parties could use the intellectual property that we have developed to enhance their products or make products similar to ours and compete more efficiently with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. While we have attempted to ensure that our products and the operations of our business do not infringe on other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our competitors and other parties may assert that our products and operations may be covered by patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents upon which our products may infringe. If any of our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from selling them unless we obtain a license or redesign the products to avoid infringement. A license may not always be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign any of our products to avoid infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, can be expensive and time-consuming and can divert management’s attention from our core business. Our information systems are critical to our business, and a failure of those systems could materially harm us. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information. If our information systems fail to perform as expected, or if we suffer an interruption, malfunction or loss of information processing capabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to timely file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will continue to require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. If we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 