ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks and certainties not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also impair its business and results of operations. Changes in consumer preferences and taste. There has been an increasing focus on health and wellness in the beverage industry. This has led to a decline in the consumption of caloric carbonated soft drinks and an increase in the consumption of products perceived to deliver health, wellness and/or functionality. If we do not adequately anticipate and react to changing demographics, consumer trends, health concerns and product preferences, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Competition. The beverage industry is extremely competitive. Our products compete with a broad range of beverage products, most of which are manufactured and distributed by companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources. In order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. Discounting and other competitive action may make it more difficult to sustain revenues and profits. Customer consolidation. Our retail customer base has been consolidating over the last several years resulting in fewer customers with increased purchasing power. This increased purchasing power can limit our ability to increase pricing for our products with certain of our customers. Our inability to meet the demands of our larger customers could lead to a loss of business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Supply of raw materials. The production of our products is dependent on certain raw materials, including aluminum, resin, fuel, linerboard and corn. These commodities are subject to price volatility caused by numerous factors. Commodity price increases ultimately result in a corresponding increase in the cost of raw materials and energy costs. We may be limited in our ability to pass these increases on to our customers or may incur a loss in sales volume to the extent price increases are taken. In addition, strikes, weather conditions, governmental controls, national emergencies, natural disasters, supply shortages or other events could affect our continued supply of raw materials. If the price of raw materials increases or the availability of raw materials is limited, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Governmental regulation. Our business and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing the production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution of beverage products. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could negatively impact our financial results through higher operating costs to achieve compliance. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related Securities and Exchange Commission rules currently in effect, we will have to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls at April 28, 2007. If it is determined that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. Also, preparing for and 6 Table of Contents complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will increase our cost of being a public company in fiscal 2007 and beyond. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 