Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investments in National City common stock involve risk. The market price of National City common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: Weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets has adversely affected National City and may continue to do so. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. At December 31, 2007, National City held approximately $1.0 billion of loans available for sale that were not eligible for purchase by these agencies. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices and higher interest rates have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, particularly second lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit and especially those that have been sourced from brokers that are outside National City’s banking footprint. These trends could continue. These conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in the mortgage business, especially in the fourth quarter of 2007, and we have curtailed various product offerings and limited our mortgage originations generally to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac eligible mortgages. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect financial condition or results of operations. In the event the allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover such losses, earnings, capital and parent company liquidity could be adversely affected. National City’s real estate portfolios are exposed to weakness in the U.S. housing markets and the overall state of the economy. The declines in home prices in many markets across the U.S., along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, have resulted in sharp increases in delinquencies and losses in National City’s portfolios of broker-originated, out-of-footprint home equity lines and loans, nonprime mortgages, and loans related to residential real estate construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with an economic recession and associated rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in the allowance for loan losses. In that event, National City’s earnings and capital could be adversely affected. The residential mortgage loan market and business have adversely affected National City’s credit ratings. On November 6, 2007, Fitch Ratings reduced National City’s long-term issuer default rating to A+ (outlook negative) from AA-, and the short-term issuer default rating to F-1 from F-1+, due to exposure to mortgage, home equity and construction lending. On January 8, 2008, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., while affirming National City Bank’s top short-term rating of P-1, placed virtually all of the long-term debt and financial strength ratings of National City Corporation and its subsidiaries on review for possible downgrade pending the rating agency’s assessment as to the ability to absorb potential losses in the residential and commercial mortgage sectors. The decrease, and potential decreases, in credit ratings could limit access to the capital markets, increase the cost of debt and adversely affect liquidity and financial condition. Further downgrades of credit ratings could adversely affect the market value of the 5 Depositary Shares and debt securities. Also, on November 12, 2007, Fitch Ratings reduced National City’s residential mortgage servicer rating one notch from RPS1- to RPS2+ with respect to prime and alt-a mortgages. This decrease in servicer rating is not expected to adversely affect the terms of future residential mortgage securitizations or National City’s continuing role as a mortgage servicer in existing transactions, but further decreases in the servicer rating could cause such an adverse effect on future securitizations and the loss of mortgage servicing rights. The allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. National City’s business depends on the creditworthiness of its customers. The Corporation periodically reviews the allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. There is no certainty that the allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, or if the allowance for loan losses is not adequate, the business, financial condition, liquidity, capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If Visa Inc. is unable to consummate its initial public offering on the terms currently contemplated, National City will not receive expected proceeds from such offering. Visa Inc. (“Visa”) filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2007 to sell its common stock in an initial public offering. If Visa’s offering is successfully completed, management currently anticipate that National City, as a selling stockholder, will receive proceeds from the offering. However, there is no assurance that Visa will be able to complete an initial public offering on the terms currently contemplated by its registration statement or at all. If the number of shares or the price per share of Visa’s offering are less than Visa currently anticipates selling or if the Visa offering is not completed, National City may not realize proceeds sufficient to cover the indemnity liabilities accrued in 2007 in respect of Visa litigation matters. National City could experience difficulties in managing growth and effectively integrating acquisitions. National City regularly reviews potential acquisition opportunities. The Corporation acquired Harbor Florida Bancshares, Inc. and Fidelity Bankshares, Inc. in December 2006 and January 2007, respectively, and acquired MAF Bancorp in Clarendon Hills, Illinois in September 2007. There is no certainty that National City will be able to manage growth adequately and profitably or to integrate the operations of Harbor, Fidelity, MAF Bancorp or any other acquisition effectively. Risks commonly associated with acquisitions include, without limitation, potential exposure to liabilities of the acquired entity, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired entity, potential disruption to the business of the acquired entity, potential diversion of management time and attention from other matters and impairment of relationships with, and the possible loss of, key employees and customers of the acquired entity. If National City does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, financial performance may suffer. National City’s ability to compete and its profitability depend in part on the ability to provide a range of financial services through a variety of distribution channels to customers. Many competitors, with whom National City competes with to attract and retain customers for traditional banking services, offer one-stop financial services shopping, which includes securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment primarily is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit future growth. National City and subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of operations of both the holding Company and subsidiaries. These laws may change from time to time and are, together with banking regulation and supervision, primarily intended for the protection of 6 consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The effects of any changes to these laws may negatively affect the cost and manner of providing services and related profitability. Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flows. National City’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors outside of National City’s control, including general economic conditions and the fiscal and monetary policies of various governmental agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy and changes in interest rates will affect loan origination values, the values of investments and other assets, the volume of deposits and other borrowings and the rates received on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and other borrowings and the resulting margin. Fluctuations in these areas may have an adverse effect. National City’s results of operations and ability to make distributions to securities holders depend upon the results of operations of subsidiaries. National City Corporation is a holding company that is a separate and distinct entity from its subsidiaries. With limited exceptions, substantially all operations are conducted through National City Bank, the Corporation’s principal subsidiary bank, and other subsidiaries. Federal banking laws limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by national banks to the earnings of the current year and the last two years without prior regulatory approval. National City Bank and other subsidiaries must also meet applicable capital requirements. At December 31, 2007, National City Bank could pay the holding company an aggregate of approximately $106 million in dividends without prior regulatory approval, compared to $954 million at December 31, 2006 and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2005. Additional risks and uncertainties could have a negative effect on financial performance. Additional factors could negatively affect the financial condition and results of operations, securities issued by National City and its common stock. Such factors include, without limitation, changes in general economic, financial and other market conditions, changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of securities market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies, changes in interest rates, new developments or exceptions regarding the financial services banking industry, changes in quarterly or annual operating results or outlook, changes in competitive conditions, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions and changes in rules or policies, changes in accounting policies and procedures, losses and customer bankruptcies, claims and assessments. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 