Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation’s common stock involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s net income or loss. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board (FRB), which regulates the national money supply in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. Among the techniques available to the FRB are engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation’s net income, accounting for approximately 76% of total revenues in 2009. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect the Corporation’s net interest income and financial condition. Regional and local economic conditions as well as fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government, including those of the FRB, may affect prevailing interest rates. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. The severity and duration of the economic downturn and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could impact the level of loan charge-offs and the provision for loan losses and may affect the Corporation’s net income or loss. National, regional, and local economic conditions could impact the loan portfolios of the Corporation’s subsidiary banks. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation’s subsidiary banks could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because: • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. 9 Table of Contents Any of these scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact its results of operations. In addition, the amount of the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and the percentage of loans it is required to charge-off may be impacted by the overall risk composition of the loan portfolio. In 2009, the Corporation’s provision for loan losses was $190.0 million. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2009 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may be required to increase its loan loss provision or charge-off a higher percentage of loans due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting its results of operations. Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as other market events, such as a disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation’s equity investments consisted of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and Federal Reserve Bank stock ($99.1 million), common stocks of publicly traded financial institutions ($32.3 million), and money market mutual funds and other equity investments ($9.0 million). The value of the securities in the Corporation’s equity portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including factors that impact the performance of the U.S. securities market in general and specific risks associated with the financial institution sector. Historically, gains on sales of stocks of other financial institutions had been a recurring component of the Corporation’s earnings. However, general economic conditions and uncertainty surrounding the financial institution sector as a whole has impacted the value of these securities. Further declines in bank stock values could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation had $113.5 million of corporate debt securities issued by financial institutions. As with stocks of financial institutions, continued declines in the values of these securities, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. The Corporation’s investment management and trust division, Fulton Financial Advisors, previously held student loan auction rate securities, also known as auction rate certificates (ARCs), for some of its customers’ accounts. From the second quarter of 2008 through 2009, the Corporation purchased illiquid ARCs from customers of Fulton Financial Advisors. Total ARCs included in the Corporation’s investment securities at December 31, 2009 were $289.2 million. The Corporation’s investment management and trust services income could also be impacted by fluctuations in the securities markets. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. securities markets in general, or otherwise, the Corporation’s revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers’ level of confidence in securities markets. If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. The Corporation has historically supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. If the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. During 2008, the Corporation recorded a $90.0 million goodwill impairment charge. Based on its annual goodwill impairment test, the Corporation determined that no impairment charge was necessary in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation had $534.9 million of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in additional impairment charges. Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect the Corporation’s business and results of operations. The Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. The volatility and disruption in these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. 10 Table of Contents In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) was enacted. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury (UST) was authorized to, among other things, deploy up to $750 billion into the financial system. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) was enacted. The Federal Government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions in response to the financial crisis. Such actions, although intended to aid the financial markets, and continued volatility in the markets could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock. Concerns over the availability and cost of credit and the decline in the U.S. real estate market also contributed to increased volatility in the capital and credit markets and diminished expectations for the economy. These factors precipitated the economic slowdown, and may have a continuing adverse effect on the Corporation. Included among the potential adverse effects of the current economic downturn on the Corporation are the following: • A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting the Corporation’s geographic market areas, could reduce the Corporation’s customer deposits and demand for financial products, such as loans. The Corporation’s success depends significantly upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in its geographic markets. Unlike large national institutions, the Corporation is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which the Corporation operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, its business could be adversely affected. Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject the Corporation to additional regulation. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact the Corporation’s operations and financial performance. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to regulations and examinations by various regulatory authorities. In addition, the Corporation is subject to certain restrictions associated with its participation in the CPP, including its ability to increase dividends, repurchase common stock or preferred stock and access the equity capital market. The potential exists for new Federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices, capital requirements, deposit insurance premiums, other bank-focused special assessments and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which may result in the issuance of formal enforcement orders. • The Corporation’s future growth and liquidity needs may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available at an excessive cost. The Corporation is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. On December 23, 2008, the Corporation issued $376.5 million of preferred stock and warrants to purchase 5.5 million shares of the Corporation’s common stock to the UST. The Corporation may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth or to redeem the preferred stock issued under the CPP. The Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation’s control. Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted. In addition, future issuances of equity securities could dilute the interests of existing shareholders and could cause a decline in the Corporation’s stock price. In addition to primary sources of liquidity in the form of principal and interest payments on outstanding loans and investments and deposits, the Corporation maintains secondary sources that provide it with additional liquidity. These secondary sources include secured and unsecured borrowings from sources such as the Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB and third-party commercial banks. The Corporation’s strong liquidity position was further enhanced by its participation in the CPP and it believes that it is well positioned to withstand current market conditions. However, market liquidity conditions have been negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets and such disruptions could, in the future, have a negative impact on secondary sources of liquidity. 11 Table of Contents The competition the Corporation faces is significant and may reduce the Corporation’s customer base and negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation’s subsidiary banks. In addition, as a result of the deregulation of the financial industry, the Corporation’s subsidiary banks also compete with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide. Some of the Corporation’s competitors, including certain super-regional and national bank holding companies that have made acquisitions in its market area, have greater resources than the Corporation has and, as such, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves while achieving its objectives. The supervision and regulation to which the Corporation is subject can be a competitive disadvantage. The Corporation is a registered financial holding company, and its subsidiary banks are depository institutions whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Corporation is extensively regulated under Federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, Federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In general, these laws and regulations establish: the eligible business activities for the Corporation; certain acquisition and merger restrictions; limitations on intercompany transactions such as loans and dividends; capital adequacy requirements; requirements for anti-money laundering programs and other compliance matters, among other regulations. Compliance with these statutes and regulations is important to the Corporation’s ability to engage in new activities and to consummate additional acquisitions. In addition, the Corporation is subject to changes in Federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles and governmental economic and monetary policies. While these statutes and regulations are generally designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and the FDIC insurance funds, they do not eliminate risk, and compliance with such statutes and regulations increases the Corporation’s expense, requires management’s attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 