Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation’s common stock involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s net income. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board (FRB), which regulates the national money supply in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. Among the techniques available to the FRB are engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation’s net income, accounting for approximately 77% of total revenues in 2007. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect the Corporation’s net income and financial condition. Based on the current interest rate environment and the price sensitivity of customers, loan demand could continue to outpace the growth of core demand and savings accounts, resulting in compression of net interest margin. Furthermore, the U. S. Treasury yield curve, which is a plot of the yields on treasury securities over various maturity terms, was relatively flat, with minimal differences between long and short-term rates during the majority of 2007, resulting in a negative impact to the Corporation’s net interest income and net interest margin. Finally, regional and local economic conditions as well as fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the FRB, may affect prevailing interest rates. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could lead to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and may reduce the Corporation’s net income. Changes in national and regional economic conditions could impact the loan portfolios of the Corporation’s subsidiary banks. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation’s subsidiary banks could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because: 9 • customers may not want or need the Corporation’s products or services; • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for loan losses, which would reduce its net income. The second and third scenarios could also result in potential repurchase liability to the Corporation on residential mortgage loans originated and sold into the secondary market. The Corporation’s Resource Bank subsidiary originates a variety of residential products through its Resource Mortgage Division to meet customer demand. These products include conventional residential mortgages that meet published guidelines of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation for sale into the secondary market, which are generally considered prime loans, and loans that deviate from those guidelines. This latter category of loans includes loans with higher loan-to-value ratios, loans with no or limited verification of a borrower’s income or net worth stated on the loan application, and loans to borrowers with lower credit ratings, referred to as FICO scores. The general market for these alternative loan products across the country has declined as a result of moderating real estate prices, increased payment defaults by borrowers and increased loan foreclosures. In particular, Resource Bank has experienced an increase in requests from investors for Resource Bank to repurchase loans sold to those investors due to claimed loan payment defaults and instances of misrepresentations of borrower information. These repurchase requests resulted in the Corporation recording charges of $25.1 million in 2007. These charges reflect losses incurred due to actual and potential repurchases of residential mortgage loans and home equity loans originated and sold in the secondary market. The Corporation cannot be assured that additional repurchase requests with respect to loans originated and sold by Resource Bank will not continue, which may result in additional related charges, adversely affecting the Corporation’s net income. The Corporation has exited the national wholesale residential mortgage business at Resource Bank, which is where most of these alternative loan products were originated. In addition, the management team from Fulton Mortgage Company has assumed oversight responsibility for Resource Mortgage. Policies and procedures, risk management analyses, and all secondary market and underwriting functions have been centralized, with all operations reporting through Fulton Mortgage Company. Other changes have occurred in underwriting criteria, including requiring higher loan-to-value loans with certain risk characteristics to be pre-approved by secondary market investors using their own underwriting criteria. This pre-approval reduces the early payment default exposure for these loans. Also, changes in secondary market guidelines, including the elimination of previously purchased mortgage products, are continuously monitored. In addition, the amount of the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and the percentage of loans it is required to charge-off may be impacted by the overall risk composition of the loan portfolio. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2007 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may be required to increase its loan loss provision or charge-off a higher percentage of loans due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby reducing its net income. A decrease in real estate values could cause higher loan losses and require higher loan loss provisions for loans that are secured by real estate. Fluctuations in the value of the Corporation’s equity portfolio and/or assets under management by the Corporation’s investment management and trust services could have an impact on the Corporation’s net income. At December 31, 2007, the Corporation’s equity investments consisted of $109.7 million of FHLB and other government agency stock, $69.4 million of stocks of other financial institutions and $12.6 million of mutual funds and other. The Corporation realized net gains on sales of financial institutions stocks of $1.8 million in 2007, $7.0 million in 2006 and $5.8 million in 2005. The value of the securities in the Corporation’s equity portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including factors that impact the performance of the U.S. securities market in general and, due to the concentration in stocks of financial institutions in the Corporation’s equity portfolio, specific risks associated with that sector. Recent declines in the values of financial institution stocks held in this portfolio may impact the Corporation’s ability to realize gains in the future. In addition, if the values of the stocks held in this portfolio continue to decline and there is an indication that declines are “other than temporary”, the Corporation may be required to write-down the values of such stocks in the future, depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the decease in the value of each individual financial institution’s stock. 10 In addition to the Corporation’s equity portfolio, the Corporation’s investment management and trust services income could be impacted by fluctuations in the securities market. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. securities markets in general, or otherwise, the Corporation’s revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers’ level of confidence in the outlook for rising securities prices. If the Corporation is unable to acquire additional banks on favorable terms or if it fails to successfully integrate or improve the operations of acquired banks, the Corporation may be unable to execute its growth strategies. The Corporation has historically supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to complete future acquisitions on favorable terms or that it will be able to assimilate acquired institutions successfully. In addition, the Corporation may not be able to achieve anticipated cost savings or operating results associated with acquisitions. Acquired institutions also may have unknown or contingent liabilities or deficiencies in internal controls that could result in material liabilities or negatively impact the Corporation’s ability to complete the internal control procedures required under federal securities laws, rules and regulations or by certain laws, rules and regulations applicable to the banking industry. If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s net income. Applicable accounting standards require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2007, the Corporation had $624.1 million of goodwill on its balance sheet. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. Based on tests of goodwill impairment conducted to date, the Corporation has concluded that there has been no impairment, and no write-downs have been recorded. However, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment. The competition the Corporation faces is increasing and may reduce the Corporation’s customer base and negatively impact the Corporation’s net income. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation’s subsidiary banks. In addition, as a result of the deregulation of the financial industry, the Corporation’s subsidiary banks also compete with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide. Some of the Corporation’s competitors, including certain super-regional and national bank holding companies that have made acquisitions in its market area, have greater resources than the Corporation has and, as such, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves while achieving its objectives. The supervision and regulation to which the Corporation is subject can be a competitive disadvantage. The Corporation is a registered financial holding company, and its subsidiary banks are depository institutions whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). As a result, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to 11 regulations and examinations by various regulatory authorities. In general, statutes establish: the eligible business activities for the Corporation; certain acquisition and merger restrictions; limitations on intercompany transactions such as loans and dividends; capital adequacy requirements; requirements for anti-money laundering programs and other compliance matters, among other regulations. The Corporation is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Compliance with these statutes and regulations is important to the Corporation’s ability to engage in new activities and to consummate additional acquisitions. In addition, the Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles and governmental economic and monetary policies. The Corporation cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect it. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. While these statutes and regulations are generally designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and the FDIC insurance funds, they do not eliminate risk, and compliance with such statutes and regulations increases the Corporation’s expense, requires management’s attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 