Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation's common stock involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. While economic conditions have been improving, the Corporation continues to operate in a challenging business environment. Since emerging from a recession during the second half of 2009, the U.S. economy has generally been improving; however, the pace of economic growth has been somewhat sluggish and uneven. There can be no assurance that this improvement will continue and certain sectors, such as real estate and manufacturing, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Some state and local governments and many businesses are still experiencing serious financial difficulty.11The current challenges affecting the Corporation, many of which are addressed in more detail below, include the following:•Low market interest rates, which have been projected by many to continue for some time, have pressured net interest margins as interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, have been originated, acquired or repriced at lower rates. Banks are also reluctant to invest in longer-term assets at historically low interest rates; •Loan demand remains sluggish, as consumers continue to reduce debt levels and increase savings and many businesses are reluctant to expand their operations, and intense competition among lenders is contributing to downward pressure on loan yields. Confidence levels of both individuals and businesses in the economy appear to be improving, but their confidence remains fragile;•The time and expense associated with regulatory compliance and risk management efforts continues to increase. Thus, balancing the need to address regulatory expectations and to implement additional enterprise risk management practices against the need to effectively manage growth in non-interest expenses has become more challenging than it has been in the past; •Bank regulators are scrutinizing banks through longer and more extensive bank examinations in both the safety and soundness and the compliance areas;•The bank regulatory agencies have been challenged in implementing many of the regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act on the timelines contemplated by such legislation, resulting in a lack of clear regulatory guidance to banks. The resulting uncertainty has caused banks to take a cautious approach to business initiatives and planning; •The reputation of, and public confidence in, the banking industry appears to have suffered as a result of continuing criticisms of the industry by politicians and the media. In many cases, these criticisms have not differentiated community banking organizations, such as the Corporation, from larger, more diverse organizations that engaged in certain practices that many observers believe helped contribute to the recent difficulties in the financial markets and the economy generally; •Some traditional sources of non-interest income for banks, such as interchange fees assessed on debit card transactions and fees for overdraft services, have become the subject of increased regulation;•Merger and acquisition activity in the banking industry has been restrained due to factors such as market volatility, lower market prices of the stock of potential buyers, lingering credit concerns, regulatory uncertainty and a disparity in price expectations between potential buyers and potential sellers. As a result, supplementing internal growth through acquisitions has been more difficult than in the past; and•Concerns about political and financial uncertainties, such as the European Union sovereign debt crisis and the potential impact of the inability of the U.S. federal government to effectively resolve the negotiations relating to the so-called "fiscal cliff," budget sequestration and debt ceiling, have caused uncertainty for financial markets globally. Difficult conditions in the economy and the capital markets may materially adversely affect the Corporation's business and results of operations. The Corporation's results of operations and financial condition are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The Corporation's financial performance is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Corporation operates and in the U.S. as a whole. The business environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Corporation offers. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors.Included among the potential adverse effects of economic downturns on the Corporation are the following:•Economic downturns and the composition of the Corporation's loan portfolio could impact the level of loan charge-offs and the provision for credit losses and may affect the Corporation's net income. National, regional and local economic conditions can impact the Corporation's loan portfolio. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation may depress the Corporation's earnings and consequently its financial condition because: ◦borrowers may not be able to repay their loans;◦the value of the collateral securing the Corporation's loans to borrowers may decline; and◦the quality of the Corporation's loan portfolio may decline.Any of these scenarios could require the Corporation to increase its provision for credit losses, which would negatively impact its results of operations and could result in charge-offs of a higher percentage of its loans. 12Approximately $5.2 billion, or 43.2%, of the Corporation's loan portfolio was in commercial mortgage and construction loans at December 31, 2012. The Corporation did not have a concentration of credit risk with any single borrower, industry or geographical location. However, the performance of real estate markets and the weak economic conditions in general may adversely impact the performance of these loans. In 2012, the Corporation's provision for credit losses was $94.0 million. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2012 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may be required to increase its provision for credit losses due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting its results of operations. •Economic downturns or a protracted low-growth environment, particularly when these conditions affect the Corporation's geographic market areas, could reduce the demand for the Corporation's financial products, such as loans and deposits. The Corporation's success depends significantly upon the growth in population, employment and income levels, deposits, loans and housing starts in its geographic markets. Unlike large, national institutions, the Corporation is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which the Corporation operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, its business could be adversely affected. In addition, increased market competition in a lower demand environment could adversely affect the profit potential of the Corporation; for example, in order to remain competitive, the Corporation may be required to offer interest rates on loans and deposits that might not be offered in different business conditions. •Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject the Corporation to additional regulation. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation and examinations by various regulatory authorities. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact the Corporation's operations and financial condition. The potential exists for new federal or state regulations regarding lending and funding practices, capital requirements, deposit insurance premiums, other bank-focused special assessments and liquidity standards. Bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which may result in the issuance of formal enforcement orders, assessment of civil money penalties or informal restrictions on activities or proposed activities of regulated entities.Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's net income. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the national money supply and engages in other lending and investment activities in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. Among the techniques available to the Federal Reserve Board are engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation's net income, accounting for approximately 72% of total revenues in 2012. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect the Corporation's net interest income and financial condition. Regional and local economic conditions, as well as fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board, may affect prevailing interest rates. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as other market events, such as a disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation's results of operations.Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as other market events, such as a disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation's results of operations. As described below, the Corporation's holdings of certain securities and the revenues the Corporation earns from its trust and investment management services business are particularly sensitive to those events:•Equity Investments. As of December 31, 2012, the Corporation's equity investments included common stocks of publicly traded financial institutions (totaling $44.2 million). The value of the securities in the Corporation's equity portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including factors that impact the performance of the U.S. securities market in general and specific risks associated with the financial institution sector. General economic conditions and uncertainty surrounding 13the financial institution sector as a whole has impacted the value of these securities. Declines in bank stock values, in general, as well as deterioration in the performance of specific banks, could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges. The Corporation's holdings of publicly traded financial institutions include shares of a single financial institution which, as of December 31, 2012, had a fair value of $21.6 million. The Corporation's holdings of this financial institution constituted approximately 50% of the fair value of the Corporation's aggregate holdings of publicly traded financial institutions as of that date. •Corporate Debt Securities. As of December 31, 2012, the Corporation had $110.3 million of corporate debt securities issued by financial institutions. As with stocks of financial institutions, declines in the values of these securities, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges. •Municipal Securities. As of December 31, 2012, the Corporation had $315.5 million of municipal securities issued by various municipalities in its investment portfolio. Ongoing uncertainty with respect to the financial viability of municipal insurers places greater emphasis on the underlying strength of issuers. Increasing pressure on local tax revenues of issuers due to adverse economic conditions could also have a negative impact on the underlying credit quality of issuers. The Corporation evaluates existing and potential holdings primarily on the underlying credit-worthiness of the issuing municipality and then, to a lesser extent, on the credit enhancement corresponding to the individual issuance. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 95% of municipal securities were supported by the general obligation of corresponding municipalities. In addition, approximately 79% of these securities were school district issuances that are supported by the general obligation of the corresponding municipalities as of December 31, 2012.•Auction Rate Securities. The investment management and trust services division of Fulton Bank, N.A., Fulton Financial Advisors, previously held student loan auction rate securities, also known as auction rate certificates (ARCs), for some of its customers' accounts. During 2008 and 2009, the Corporation purchased illiquid ARCs from customers of Fulton Financial Advisors. As of December 31, 2012 the Corporation had $149.3 million of investments in ARCs. ARCs are long-term securities that were structured to allow their sale in periodic auctions, resulting in both the treatment of ARCs as short-term instruments in normal market conditions and fair values that could be derived based on periodic auction prices. However, beginning, in 2008, market auctions for these securities began to fail due to an insufficient number of buyers, resulting in an illiquid market. This illiquidity has resulted in recent market prices that represent forced liquidations or distressed sales and do not provide an accurate basis for fair value. Therefore, as of December 31, 2012, the fair values of the ARCs were derived using significant unobservable inputs based on an expected cash flows model which produced fair values which were materially different from those that would be expected from settlement of these investments in the illiquid market that presently exists. The Corporation believes that the trusts underlying the ARCs will self-liquidate as student loans are repaid.•Investment Management and Trust Services Revenue. The Corporation's investment management and trust services revenue can also be impacted by fluctuations in the securities markets. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. securities markets, in general or otherwise, the Corporation's revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation's ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers' level of confidence in securities markets. The supervision and regulation to which the Corporation is subject is increasing and can be a competitive disadvantage. The time, expense and internal and external resources associated with regulatory compliance continue to increase. Thus, balancing the need to address regulatory changes and effectively manage growth in non-interest expenses has become more challenging than it has been in the past.The Corporation is a registered financial holding company, and its subsidiary banks are depository institutions whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Corporation and its bank subsidiaries are extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In general, these laws and regulations establish: the eligible business activities for the Corporation; certain acquisition and merger restrictions; limitations on intercompany transactions such as loans and dividends; capital adequacy requirements; requirements for anti-money laundering programs; consumer lending and other compliance matters. While these statutes and regulations are generally designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and the FDIC insurance funds, they do not eliminate risk, and compliance with such statutes and regulations increases the Corporation's expense, requires management's attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors and larger bank competitors.14Compliance with banking statutes and regulations is important to the Corporation's ability to engage in new activities and to consummate additional acquisitions. Bank regulators are scrutinizing banks through longer and more extensive bank examinations in both the safety and soundness and compliance areas. The results of such examinations could result in a delay in receiving required regulatory approvals for potential new activities and transactional matters. In the event that the Corporation's compliance record would be determined to be unsatisfactory, such approvals may not be able to be obtained. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher deposit insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation's operations and expansion activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. The federal government, the Federal Reserve Board and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken, and may in the future take other actions, in response to the stress on the financial system. For example, the Federal Reserve Board recently announced its intention to maintain short-term interest rates near zero at least until certain unemployment and inflation targets are reached, which the Federal Reserve Board currently believes will not occur until at least mid-2015. Such actions, although intended to aid the financial markets, and continued volatility in the markets, could materially and adversely affect the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of the Corporation's common stock.In addition, the Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles, governmental economic and monetary policies and collection efforts by taxing authorities.Financial reform legislation is likely to have a significant impact on the Corporation's business and results of operations; however, until more implementing regulations are adopted, the extent to which the legislation will impact the Corporation is uncertain.On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability Oversight Council, with oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has broad regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services. The Dodd-Frank Act also changed the responsibilities of the current federal banking regulators, imposed additional corporate governance and disclosure requirements in areas such as executive compensation and proxy access, and limited or prohibited proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks. The scope of the Dodd-Frank Act impacted many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many regulations, a significant number of which have not yet been adopted or fully implemented. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them under the Dodd-Frank Act and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. Additional uncertainty regarding the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act exists due to court decisions and the potential for additional legislative changes to the Dodd-Frank Act. The Corporation, as well as the broader financial services industry, is continuing to assess the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act (and its possible impact on customers' behaviors) on its business and operations but, at this stage, the extent of the impact cannot be fully determined with any degree of certainty. However, the Corporation has been impacted, and will likely continue to be in the future, by the so-called Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which reduced debit card interchange revenue of banks; and revised deposit insurance assessments. It also is likely to be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act in the areas of corporate governance, capital requirements, risk management, stress testing and regulation under consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB. Among other things, the CFPB was given rulemaking authority over most providers of consumer financial services in the U.S., examination and enforcement authority over the consumer operations of large banks, as well as interpretive authority with respect to numerous existing consumer financial services regulations. The CFPB began exercising these oversight authorities over the largest banks during 2011. Because this is an entirely new agency, the impact on the Corporation, including its retail banking and mortgage businesses, is largely uncertain. However, any new regulatory requirements, or modified interpretations of existing regulations, will affect the Corporation's consumer business practices and operations, potentially resulting in increased compliance costs. Furthermore, the CFPB represents an additional source of potential enforcement or litigation against the Corporation and, as an entirely new agency with a focus on consumer protection, the CFPB may have new or different enforcement or litigation strategies than those typically utilized by other regulatory agencies. Such actions could further increase the Corporation's costs.The delay in the implementation of many of the regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act on the timelines contemplated by such legislation has resulted in a lack of clear regulatory guidance to banks. The resulting uncertainty has caused banks to take a cautious approach to business initiatives and planning.15The Corporation may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, including inadvertent or unintentional violations. Virtually every aspect of the Corporation's operations is subject to extensive regulation and, in the current economic, political and regulatory climate, the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny, especially given the Corporation's size and complexity. The Corporation maintains a system of internal controls designed to achieve compliance with applicable laws and regulations for itself and its bank subsidiaries. Weaknesses in the design or effectiveness of this system, however, may expose the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries to fines and penalties for non-compliance, in some cases, even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional. Through the Corporation's compliance and internal audit functions, potential areas of regulatory non-compliance are evaluated and, if identified, are corrected with ongoing action plans developed, implemented and routinely monitored. In addition, through regular examinations, the Corporation's and its bank subsidiaries' primary bank regulators identify areas of regulatory non-compliance or weakness and require or suggest corrective actions, which are similarly corrected through ongoing corrective action plans which are developed, implemented and routinely monitored.The failure of the Corporation to comply with applicable regulations, or the failure to develop, implement and comply with corrective action plans to address any identified areas of noncompliance, may result in the assessment of fines and penalties and the commencement of informal or formal regulatory enforcement actions against the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries. Other negative consequences also can result from such failures, including regulatory restrictions on the Corporation's activities, reputational damage (see below), restrictions on the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in the Corporation's securities and increases in the Corporation's costs of doing business. Increases in the Corporation's costs of doing business may include increased salaries and benefits expenses associated with hiring additional employees, incurring fees and expenses for outside services, such as consulting and legal advice, and costs associated with enhancing, or acquiring systems and technological infrastructure to strengthen the Corporation's regulatory compliance program. The occurrence of one or more of these events may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations.Three of the Corporation's bank subsidiaries have been informed by their federal banking regulator that they may become subject to civil money penalties for certain alleged failures to comply with The Flood Disaster Protection Act, referred to as the Flood Act. Any such civil money penalties have yet to be finalized, but are subject to a statutory maximum of $135,000 per institution. Each such bank subsidiary, as well as the Corporation, has taken corrective actions, including enhancing policies and procedures related to compliance with the Flood Act, allocating additional resources to the compliance and internal audit functions and affected business units, and providing appropriate training of employees, and adopted a comprehensive action plan that will be administered by such banks and by the Corporation through its central regulatory compliance function. In the event the Corporation and the affected bank subsidiaries do not implement the corrective actions and comply with their actions plans, then the Corporation and such banks may be subject to further enforcement action. The terms of any such further enforcement action, or the failure to comply with same, may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations.The heightened, industry-wide attention associated with the processing of residential mortgage foreclosures may adversely affect the Corporation's business.As a result of the economic downturn which began in December, 2007, larger banks and mortgage servicing companies have been challenged with processing tens of thousands of foreclosures nationwide. In late 2010, the media began reporting on possible processing errors and documentation problems in mortgage foreclosures at several of the nation's largest banks and mortgage servicing businesses. It was reported that, in some foreclosures, the procedural steps (which often vary by state and in some cases by local jurisdictions within a state) required to complete a foreclosure had not been followed. As a result, there were questions concerning the validity of some foreclosures. Since 2010 the foreclosure procedures used by banks and servicing companies have continued to come under scrutiny by consumer advocates, attorneys representing borrowers, state Attorney Generals and banking regulators. In April 2011, federal banking regulators announced formal enforcement actions against 14 of the largest mortgage servicing firms related to deficiencies in their residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing practices. In January 2013, federal banking regulators announced that they had reached agreements in principle with 13 of those mortgage servicing firms to provide $9.3 billion in cash compensation and mortgage assistance to residential mortgage borrowers affected by deficiencies in their residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing practices.As a financial institution, the Corporation offers a variety of residential mortgage loan products. A majority of the mortgage loans originated by the Corporation are made in the Corporation's five-state market. The Corporation also services loans owned by investors in accordance with the investors' guidelines. A small percentage of the Corporation's residential mortgage borrowers default on their mortgage loans. When this occurs, the Corporation attempts to resolve the default in a way that provides the greatest return to the Corporation or is in accordance with investor guidelines; typically, options are pursued that allow the borrower to remain the owner of their home. However, when these efforts are not successful, it becomes necessary for the Corporation to foreclose on the loan. The Corporation analyzes whether foreclosure is necessary on a case-by-case basis and the number of 16residential foreclosures undertaken by the Corporation is not substantial. The Corporation initiated approximately 325, 300 and 400 residential foreclosure actions during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for residential loans the Corporation owned or serviced for investors. Although the number of foreclosures undertaken by the Corporation on residential mortgage loans in its portfolio or that the Corporation services for others is substantially less than those of larger banks and mortgage servicers, the Corporation has received inquiries from banking regulators, title insurance companies and others regarding its foreclosure procedures. As a result of these inquiries and the publicity surrounding the mortgage foreclosure area nationally, the Corporation has reviewed the requirements for foreclosures in each of the states where most of its foreclosures occur and its own foreclosure procedures. The Corporation has also consulted with the law firms it uses to undertake foreclosures in each of the states in its primary markets and in other states where it has substantial mortgage lending activities regarding foreclosure procedures. In addition, in 2011, banking regulators required financial institutions to perform a self-assessment of their foreclosure management process to identify any weaknesses in their processes and to determine whether these weaknesses resulted in any financial harm to borrowers. The Corporation performed such a self-assessment in 2011. The Corporation does not expect any deficiencies that it has discovered, or which it might discover in the future, as a result of these self-assessments and consultations will have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Corporation. The Corporation will continue to monitor its foreclosure procedures, and other areas of the foreclosure process, as well as future legal and regulatory developments concerning mortgage foreclosure processes in general. The Corporation is exposed to many types of operational risk.The Corporation is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, unsatisfactory performance by employees and vendors, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer and telecommunications systems malfunctions. The Corporation's businesses are dependent on its ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of the Corporation's financial, accounting, compliance or other data processing controls or systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Corporation could be materially adversely affected. The Corporation is similarly dependent on its employees. The Corporation could be materially adversely affected if one of its employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which the Corporation does business could also be sources of operational risk to it, including the possibilities of breakdowns or failures of such parties' systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in the Corporation's diminished ability to operate one or more of its businesses, financial loss, potential liability to customers, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect the Corporation.The Corporation's framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Corporation. The Corporation has historically considered its management of risks to be an important aspect of its operations. The Corporation's risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. The Corporation has established processes, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which the Corporation is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, operational risk, compliance and regulatory risk, legal risk and reputational risk, among others. As with any risk management framework, however, there are inherent limitations to the Corporation's risk management strategies and controls, and there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that the Corporation has not anticipated or identified. If the Corporation's risk management framework proves to be ineffective, the Corporation could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. The Corporation historically has followed a “super-community” banking strategy under which the Corporation has operated its subsidiary banks autonomously to maximize the advantage of community banking and service to its customers. This banking strategy challenges the Corporation's efforts to manage risk efficiently and effectively through a centralized risk management and compliance function. The evolving need for organization-wide risk management procedures may require changes in the Corporation's historical de-centralized operating approach. Negative publicity could damage the Corporation's reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Corporation's earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Corporation's business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Corporation's ability to keep and attract customers and expose it to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from the Corporation's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory, compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and 17community organizations in response to that conduct. Because the Corporation conducts the majority of its businesses under the "Fulton" brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect the Corporation's other businesses. In addition to the reputation risk of the Corporation, the reputation of, and public confidence in, the banking industry appears to have suffered as a result of continuing criticisms of the industry by politicians and the media. In many cases, these criticisms have not differentiated community banking organizations, such as the Corporation, from larger, more diverse organizations that engaged in certain practices that many observers believe helped contribute to the recent difficulties in the financial markets and the economy generally.Loss of, or failure to adequately safeguard, confidential or proprietary information may adversely affect the Corporation's operations, net income or reputation. The Corporation regularly collects, processes, transmits and stores significant amounts of confidential information regarding its customers, employees and others. This information is necessary for the conduct of the Corporation's business activities, including the ongoing maintenance of deposit, loan, investment management and other account relationships for the Corporation's customers, and receiving instructions and affecting transactions for those customers and other users of the Corporation's products and services. In addition to confidential information regarding its customers, employees and others, the Corporation compiles, processes, transmits and stores proprietary, non-public information concerning its own business, operations, plans and strategies. In some cases, this confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on behalf of the Corporation.Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. A failure in or breach of the Corporation's operational or information security systems, or those of the Corporation's third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches or due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions could adversely affect our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect the Corporation's systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Corporation.If this confidential or proprietary information were to be mishandled, misused or lost the Corporation could be exposed to significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, civil litigation and financial loss. Mishandling, misuse or loss of this confidential or proprietary information could occur, for example, if the confidential or proprietary information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the systems or employees of the Corporation, or the systems or employees of third parties which have collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored the information on the Corporation's behalf, where the information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties or where there is a failure or breach of the network, communications or information systems which are used to collect, compile, process, transmit or store the information. Although the Corporation employs a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect this confidential and proprietary information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. Similarly, when confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on behalf of the Corporation, the Corporation's policies and procedures require that the third party agree to maintain the confidentiality of the information, establish and maintain policies and procedures designed to preserve the confidentiality of the information, and permit the Corporation to confirm the third party's compliance with the terms of the agreement. Although the Corporation believes that it has adequate information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, the Corporation may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance its information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.The Corporation will be completing a transition to a new core processing system. If the Corporation is not able to complete the transition as planned, or unanticipated events occur during the transition, the Corporation's operations, net income, or reputation could be adversely affected.The Corporation expects to complete its transition to a new core processing system during 2013. The core processing system is used to maintain customer and account records, reflect account transactions and activity, and support the Corporation's customer relationship management systems for substantially all of the Corporation's deposit and loan customers. The Corporation has assembled a team of officers and employees representing key business units and functional areas throughout the Corporation to plan and oversee the transition process. This team, working with the vendor for the core processing system and outside project management consultants, has developed a comprehensive work plan for completing the transition. The transition will be completed 18in several phases, with between one and three of the Corporation's six subsidiary banks being transitioned to the new system in each phase. Extensive pre-transition testing of, and employee training in, processing routines and new core processing system operation will be conducted before each of the Corporation's subsidiary banks are transitioned to the new core processing system. The phased approach is expected to facilitate pre-transition system testing and employee training, reduce the potential impact of any unanticipated events that may arise during the conversion and enable the Corporation to allocate sufficient resources to both transition-related tasks and routine processing and customer service activities.If the Corporation is not able to complete the transition to the new core processing system as expected in accordance with the work plan, or if unanticipated events occur during or following the transition, the Corporation may not be able to timely process transactions for its customers, those customers may not be able to complete transactions in or affecting their accounts that are maintained on the core processing system, or the Corporation may not be able to perform contractual and other obligations to its customers or other parties, such as payment networks in which the Corporation participates. Should any of these consequences occur, the Corporation may incur additional expense in its financial and regulatory reporting, in processing or re-processing transactions, and the Corporation may not be able to meet customer expectations for transaction processing and customer service, customers may lose confidence in the Corporation and close their accounts with the Corporation, and the Corporation may incur liability under contractual or other arrangements with customers or other parties. Any of these events, should they occur, could have a material and adverse impact on the Corporation's operations, net income, reputation or the trading price of the Corporation's common stock, as well as expose the Corporation to civil liability or regulatory sanctions.The Corporation's business is dependent on its network and information processing systems, and, in some cases, those of the Corporation's third-party vendors, and the disruption or failure of those systems may adversely affect the Corporation's operations, net income, or reputation.The Corporation's business activities are dependent on its ability to accurately and timely process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If any of its financial, accounting, network or other information processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Corporation could be materially adversely affected. Third parties with which the Corporation does business could also be sources of operational risk to the Corporation, including the risk that the third parties' own network and information processing systems could fail. Any of these occurrences could materially diminish the Corporation's ability to operate one or more of the Corporation's businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect the Corporation.The Corporation may be subject to disruptions or failures of the Corporation's financial, accounting, network and information processing systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the Corporation's control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, denial of service attacks or hacking targeting the Corporation's network or information processing systems or the Corporation's websites, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets or terrorist acts. The Corporation has developed a comprehensive emergency recovery program, which includes plans to maintain or resume operations in the event of an emergency, such as a power outage or disease pandemic, and contingency plans in the event that operations or systems cannot be resumed or restored. The emergency recovery program is periodically reviewed and updated, and components of the emergency recovery program are regularly tested and validated. The Corporation also reviews and evaluates the emergency recovery programs of vendors which provide certain third-party systems that the Corporation considers critical. Nevertheless, disruptions or failures affecting any of these systems may give rise to interruption in service to customers, damage to the Corporation's reputation and loss or liability to the Corporation. Merger and acquisition activity in the banking industry has been restrained, and may continue to be restrained, by market factors. Regulatory factors could also be an impediment to growth through acquisitions.The Corporation has historically supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. However, merger and acquisition activity in the banking industry has been restrained in recent years due to factors such as market volatility, lower market prices of the stock of potential buyers, lingering credit concerns, increased regulatory scrutiny and a disparity in price expectations between potential buyers and potential sellers. As a result, supplementing internal growth through acquisitions has been more difficult.If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation's results of operations.If the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company's net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. A more frequent evaluation could be triggered by, for example, a broad price decline in the shares of comparable publicly traded financial institutions. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. 19Based on its annual goodwill impairment tests, the Corporation determined that no impairment charges were necessary in 2012, 2011, 2010, or 2009. During 2008, the Corporation recorded a $90.0 million goodwill impairment charge. As of December 31, 2012, the Corporation had $530.7 million of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in additional impairment charges. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation's earnings.In response to the impact of economic conditions since December 2007 on banks generally and on the FDIC deposit insurance fund (DIF), the FDIC changed its risk-based assessment system and increased base assessment rates. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years' worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. In February 2011, as required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a ruling pursuant to which the assessment base against which FDIC assessments for deposit insurance are made was changed. Instead of FDIC insurance assessments being based upon an insured bank's deposits, FDIC insurance assessments are now generally based on an insured bank's total average assets, minus average tangible equity. With this change, the Corporation's overall FDIC insurance cost has declined. However, a change in the risk categories applicable to the Corporation's bank subsidiaries, further adjustments to base assessment rates and any special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. In addition, should one of the Corporation's subsidiary banks have assets above $10 billion for four consecutive quarters, a higher assessment could apply to that subsidiary for the purposes of calculating its FDIC insurance premium. The Corporation's largest subsidiary bank, Fulton Bank, N. A., had $9.2 billion in assets as of December 31, 2012. Based on current regulations, the Corporation has estimated that Fulton Bank, N. A., would pay approximately $1 million in additional annual FDIC insurance premiums if it were to reach the $10 billion threshold.The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that the FDIC take steps necessary to increase the level of the DIF to 1.35% of total insured deposits by September 30, 2020. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a Restoration Plan to achieve that goal. Certain elements of the Restoration Plan are left to future FDIC rulemaking, as are the potential for increases to the assessment rates, which may become necessary to achieve the targeted level of the DIF. Future FDIC rulemaking in this regard may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation.The competition the Corporation faces is significant and may reduce the Corporation's customer base and negatively impact the Corporation's results of operations. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation. In addition, as a result of the deregulation of the financial services industry, the Corporation also competes with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide and have different cost structures. Some of the Corporation's competitors, including certain super-regional and national bank holding companies that have made acquisitions in its market area, have greater resources than the Corporation has and, as such, may have higher lending limits, lower cost of funds and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation's profitability. The Corporation's profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves. Further, intense competition among lenders is contributing to downward pressure on loan yields.The Corporation's mortgage banking line of business is cyclical, and may present specific risks. Demand for residential mortgage loans has historically tended to increase during periods when interest rates were declining, and to decrease during periods when interest rates were rising. Residential mortgage lending activity affects the Corporation's results of operations in a number of ways. When the Corporation originates and then sells a residential mortgage loan to investors in the secondary market, the Corporation typically recognizes an immediate gain on the sale of the residential mortgage loan, and if the Corporation continues to provide loan servicing in connection with the sold residential mortgage loan, the Corporation realizes mortgage servicing income during the life of the loan. When the Corporation originates a residential mortgage loan and retains that residential mortgage loan in its loan portfolio, the Corporation recognizes interest income as the borrower makes periodic payments. 20During 2012, long-term interest rates in general, and those for residential mortgage loans in particular, were at or near historic lows. This low level of interest rates contributed to a significant increase in the volume of residential mortgage loans originated by the Corporation, a significant increase in gains realized on the sale of some of those loans to investors in the secondary market, and significant growth in the Corporation's residential mortgage loans held in its loan portfolio during 2012. This level of growth is unlikely to be repeated in 2013. The Corporation provides customary representations and warranties to investors in the secondary mortgage market. These representations and warranties specify that, among other things, the loans sold have been underwritten to the standards established by the investor. The Corporation may be required to repurchase a loan or reimburse the investor for a credit loss incurred on a loan if it is determined that the representations and warranties have not been met. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the reserve for losses on residential mortgage loans sold was $6.0 million and $1.6 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) related to residential mortgage loans sold and serviced by the Corporation is recorded as an asset upon the sale of such loans. MSRs are amortized as a reduction to servicing income over the estimated lives of the underlying loans. MSRs are also evaluated for impairment. As interest rates decline, the rate of prepayment of residential mortgage loans typically increases, which can result in increased amortization of MSRs. The fair value of MSRs can decrease based on a number of factors, most notably an increase in prepayment speed projections. A reduction in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights is recorded as a valuation allowance and is recognized as a reduction in mortgage servicing income. The Corporation's future growth and liquidity needs may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available at an excessive cost. The Corporation is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation, however, may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth. The Corporation's ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation's control. Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted. In the event of a material decrease in the Corporation's stock price, future issuances of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholder interests.Capital planning has taken on more importance due to regulatory requirements and the proposed Basel III capital standards.Consistent with current regulatory guidance, the Corporation prepares an internal capital plan, which is updated at least annually, and consults with the Federal Reserve in advance of undertaking any significant capital-related actions, such as declaring an increased cash dividend or approving a share repurchase program. Beginning in the fall of 2013 and annually thereafter, the Corporation, like other banking organizations with consolidated assets in excess of $10 billion, but less than $50 billion, will be required to conduct a stress test in the manner specified, and using assumptions for baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios announced by the Federal Reserve. The stress test is designed to assess the potential impact of the various scenarios on the Corporation's earnings, capital levels and capital ratios over at least a nine-quarter time horizon. The Corporation's board of directors and its senior management will be required to consider the results of the stress test in the normal course of business, including as part of its capital planning process and the evaluation of the adequacy of its capital. The Corporation will also be required to report the results of the annual stress test to the Federal Reserve, and beginning with the stress test conducted in the fall of 2014, publicly disclose a summary of the results of the stress test completed under the severely adverse scenario. While the Corporation believes that both the quality and magnitude of its capital base are sufficient to support its current operations given its risk profile, the results of the stress testing process may lead the Corporation to retain additional capital or alter the mix of its capital components. In addition, the implementation of certain regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect the Corporation's regulatory capital position relative to that of its competitors, including those who may not be subject to the same regulatory requirement, which could put further pressure on the price of the Corporation's common stock.The federal banking regulatory agencies have proposed regulations implementing the Basel III capital standards. The Basel III proposals would change required levels of capital and how banks calculate their regulatory capital and revise and harmonize the rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses that have been identified over the past several years. The proposals would increase the minimum levels of required capital, narrow the definition of capital, and increase the risk weights for various asset classes.21Specifically, fully phased-in capital standards under Basel III would require banks to maintain more capital than the minimum levels required under current regulatory capital standards. The new requirements would (i) include a new minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets, (ii) raise the minimum tier 1 capital ratio from 4.0% to 6.0% of risk-weighted assets, (iii) retain the current minimum total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets and the minimum tier 1 leverage capital ratio at 4.0% of average assets and (iv) introduce a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the minimum risk-based capital requirements; the capital conservation buffer must be maintained to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments.The new minimum regulatory capital requirements would be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. However, the final rules have not yet been issued and are not yet applicable to the Corporation. As of December 31, 2012, the Corporation believes its current capital levels would meet the fully-phased in minimum capital requirements, including capital conservation buffers, as proposed in the Basel III capital standards.Liquidity planning at both the holding company and the bank levels has become an area of increased regulatory emphasis. In addition to primary sources of liquidity in the form of principal and interest payments on outstanding loans and investments and deposits, the Corporation maintains secondary sources that provide it with additional liquidity. These secondary sources may include secured and unsecured borrowings from sources such as the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank and third-party commercial banks. The Corporation believes that it maintains a strong liquidity position and that it is well positioned to withstand current market conditions. However, market conditions have been negatively impacted by disruptions in the liquidity markets in the past and such disruptions or an adverse change in the Corporation's results of operations or financial condition could, in the future, have a negative impact on secondary sources of liquidity. The Basel III proposals, in addition to new capital standards, also include new liquidity requirements which, when implemented by U.S. bank regulators, may require the Corporation to maintain increased levels of liquid assets or alter its strategies for liquidity management. Liquidity must also be managed at the parent company level. Banking regulators are paying close attention to liquidity at the holding company level, in addition to consolidated and bank liquidity levels. This focus has affected some institutions' ability to pay dividends and has required some institutions to establish borrowing facilities at the holding company level. For safety and soundness reasons, banking regulations limit the amount of cash that can be transferred from subsidiary banks to the parent company in the form of loans and dividends. Generally, these limitations are based on the subsidiary banks' regulatory capital levels and their net income. The Corporation continues to monitor the liquidity and capital needs of the parent company and will implement appropriate strategies, as necessary, to remain adequately capitalized and to meet its cash needs.The Corporation is a holding company and relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for substantially all of its revenue and its ability to make dividends, distributions and other payments.The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries, and depends on the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries, principally its banking subsidiaries, for substantially all of its revenues. As a result, the Corporation's ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal and state regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. There are various regulatory and prudential supervisory restrictions, which may change from time to time, that impact the ability of its banking subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it. For additional information regarding the regulatory restrictions on the Corporation and its subsidiaries, see Item 1, "Business - Supervision and Regulation."If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. Depending on the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries, the applicable regulatory authority might deem the Corporation to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice if its banking subsidiaries were to pay dividends. The Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks and bank holding companies only to pay dividends out of current operating earnings. In 2009, the Federal Reserve Board released a supervisory letter advising bank holding companies, among other things, that as a general matter a bank holding company should inform its Federal Reserve Bank and should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its dividends if (1) the bank holding company's net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (2) the bank holding company's prospective rate of earnings is not consistent with the bank holding company's capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition, or (3) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios.22A downgrade in the credit ratings of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.Fitch, Inc. and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. continuously evaluate the Corporation and our subsidiaries, and their ratings of the Corporation and its subsidiary's long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within its and its subsidiaries' control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Moreover, Fitch and Moody's have indicated that they are evaluating the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the rating support assumptions currently included in their methodologies. In light of these reviews and the continued focus on the financial services industry generally, the Corporation and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades by Fitch or Moody's could have a significant and immediate impact on the Corporation's funding and liquidity through cash obligations, reduced funding capacity and collateral triggers. A reduction in the Corporation's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could also increase the Corporation's borrowing costs and limit its access to the capital markets.Downgrades in the credit or financial strength ratings assigned to the counterparties with whom the Corporation transact, could create the perception that the Corporation's financial condition will be adversely impacted as a result of potential future defaults by such counterparties. Additionally, the Corporation could be adversely affected by a general, negative perception of financial institutions caused by the downgrade of other financial institutions. Accordingly, ratings downgrades for other financial institutions could affect the Corporation's market capitalization and could limit access to or increase its cost of capital.Many aspects of the Corporation's operations are dependent upon the soundness of other financial institutions.The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, execution of transactions or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Corporation.Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Corporation's shareholders.Provisions of Pennsylvania law and of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Corporation or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Corporation. The Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include certain provisions which may be considered to be “anti-takeover” in nature because they may have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult the acquisition of control over the Corporation by means of a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy contest or similar transaction. These provisions are intended to protect the Corporation's shareholders by providing a measure of assurance that the Corporation's shareholders will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited takeover bid and by preventing a successful takeover bidder from exercising its voting control to the detriment of the other shareholders. However, the anti-takeover provisions set forth in the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, taken as a whole, may discourage a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy solicitation or similar transaction relating to the Corporation's common stock. To the extent that these provisions actually discourage such a transaction, holders of the Corporation's common stock may not have an opportunity to dispose of part or all of their stock at a higher price than that prevailing in the market. In addition, some of these provisions make it more difficult to remove, and thereby may serve to entrench, the Corporation's incumbent directors and officers, even if their removal would be regarded by some shareholders as desirable.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.23