Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation's common stock involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Difficult conditions in the economy and the capital markets may materially adversely affect the Corporation's business and results of operations. The Corporation's results of operations and financial condition are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The Corporation's financial performance is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Corporation operates and in the U.S. as a whole. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors. Specifically, the business environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on, and repay principal of, outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Corporation offers. If the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio declines, the Corporation may have to increase its provision for credit losses, which would negatively impact its results of operations, and could result in charge-offs of a higher percentage of its loans. Unlike large, national institutions, the Corporation is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which the Corporation operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, its business could be adversely affected. In addition, increased market competition in a lower demand environment could adversely affect the profit potential of the Corporation. Since emerging from a recession during the second half of 2009, the U.S. economy has generally been improving; however, the pace of economic growth has been somewhat sluggish and uneven. There can be no assurance that this improvement will continue, and certain sectors of the economy remain weak and unemployment remains elevated. Some state and local governments and many businesses are still experiencing serious financial difficulty. Loan demand shows signs of improvement; however, intense competition among lenders is contributing to downward pressure on loan yields. Confidence levels of both individuals and businesses in the economy appear to be improving, but their confidence remains fragile.The Corporation is subject to certain risks in connection with the establishment and level of its allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2013 is sufficient to cover incurred losses in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may be required to increase its provision for credit losses due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting its results of operations.The allowance for loan losses represents management’s estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date and is recorded as a reduction to loans. Management’s estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio is dependent on the proper application of its methodology for determining its allowance needs. The most critical judgments underpinning that methodology include: the ability to identify potential problem loans in a timely manner; proper collateral valuation of impaired loans evaluated for impairment; proper measurement of allowance needs for pools of loans measured for impairment; and an overall assessment of the risk profile of the loan portfolio.The Corporation determines the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses based on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including, but not limited to: the size and composition of the loan portfolio; changes in risk ratings; changes in collateral values; delinquency levels; historical losses; and economic conditions.If the Corporation’s assumptions and judgments regarding such matters prove to be inaccurate, its allowance for credit losses might not be sufficient, and additional provisions for credit losses might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such provisions for credit losses, the adverse impact of the Corporation’s earnings could be material.In addition, as the Corporation’s loan portfolio grows, it will generally be necessary to increase the allowance for credit losses through additional provisions, which would adversely impact the Corporation’s operating results. Furthermore, bank regulators may require the Corporation to make additional provisions for credit losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs or impairments following their periodic reviews of the Corporation’s loan portfolio, underwriting procedures and allowance for credit losses. Any increase in the Corporation’s allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7, "Management’s 14Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Financial Condition - Provision and Allowance for Credit Losses."Economic downturns and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio subject the Corporation to credit risk.Economic downturns and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio subject the Corporation to credit risk. National, regional and local economic conditions can impact the Corporation’s loan portfolio. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation may depress the Corporation’s earnings and consequently its financial condition because:•borrowers may not be able to pay interest on, and repay their principal of, outstanding loans;•the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and•demand for loans, as well as and other products and services the Corporation offers, may decline.Approximately $5.7 billion, or 44%, of the Corporation’s loan portfolio was in commercial mortgage and construction loans at December 31, 2013. The Corporation did not have a concentration of credit risk with any single borrower, industry or geographical location. However, commercial mortgage and construction loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than residential mortgage loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on commercial mortgage loans often depend on the successful operation and management of the properties and the businesses which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate markets, adverse economic conditions or changes in government regulation. See Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Financial Condition - Loans."Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's net income. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the FRB, which regulates the national money supply and engages in other lending and investment activities in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures, many of which affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation's net income, accounting for approximately 75% of total revenues in 2013. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect the Corporation's net interest income and financial condition. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Low market interest rates, which have been projected by many to continue for some time, have pressured net interest margins. Interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, have been originated, acquired or repriced at lower rates, reducing the average rate earned on those assets. While the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, has also declined, the decline has not always occurred at the same pace as the decline in the average rate earned on interest-earning assets, resulting in a narrowing of the net interest margin. For example, competition sometimes requires the Corporation to lower rates charged on loans more than the decline in market rates would otherwise indicate. Competition may also require the Corporation to pay higher rates on deposits than market rates would otherwise indicate, further narrowing net interest margin. Further, due to historically low market interest rates, rates paid on deposits may reach a “natural floor” below which rates may not be able to be lowered. See Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Net Interest Income."Movements in interest rates can also cause demand for some of the Corporation’s products and services to be cyclical. As a result, the Corporation may need to periodically scale certain of its businesses, including its personnel, to match increases and decreases in demand and volume. The need to change the scale of these businesses is challenging and there is often a lag between changes in the businesses and the Corporation’s reaction to these changes. For example, demand for residential mortgage loans has historically tended to increase during periods when interest rates were declining, and to decrease during periods when interest rates were rising. During 2012, long-term interest rates in general, and those for residential mortgage loans in particular, were at or near historic lows. This low level of interest rates contributed to a significant increase in the volume of residential mortgage loans originated by the Corporation, a significant increase in gains realized on the sale of some of those loans to investors in the secondary market, and significant growth in the Corporation's residential mortgage loans held in its loan portfolio during 2012. This level of growth was not repeated in 2013 and, as a result, the Corporation’s income related to residential mortgage loans declined. 15Changes in interest rates or disruption in liquidity markets may adversely affect the Corporation’s sources of funding; liquidity planning at both the bank and holding company levels has become an area of increased regulatory emphasis.The Corporation must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of its depositors and borrowers. The Corporation’s liquidity management emphasizes core deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments as its primary sources of liquidity. These primary sources of liquidity can be supplemented by FHLB advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank, proceeds from the sales of loans and liquidity resources of the holding company. Lower-cost, core deposits may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates and the supplemental sources of liquidity are often more expensive and may not always be as readily available. Technology and other factors have also made it more convenient for customers to transfer low-cost deposits into higher-cost deposits or into alternative investments or deposits of other banks or non-bank providers; these funding changes can also increase the Corporation’s funding costs and/or create liquidity challenges.While the Corporation attempts to manage its liquidity through models, assumptions and estimates used in the models do not always accurately forecast the impact of changes in customer behavior. For example, the Corporation may face limitations on its ability to fund loan growth if customers move funds out of the Corporation’s subsidiary banks’ deposit accounts in response to increases in interest rates. In the current, unusually low interest rate environment, customers are less sensitive to interest rates when making deposit decisions. However, should interest rates rise, customers may become more aware of interest rate differences and alternative opportunities, which could cause them to move funds into those other opportunities and out of deposit accounts maintained by the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries. Due to regulatory limitations on the Corporation’s ability to rely on short term funding sources, any significant movements of deposits away from traditional depository accounts which negatively impacts the Corporation’s loan-to-deposit ratio could restrict its ability to achieve growth in loans or result in the necessity to pay higher interest rates on deposit products in order to retain deposits to fund loans.Market conditions have been negatively impacted by disruptions in the liquidity markets in the past, and such disruptions or an adverse change in the Corporation's results of operations or financial condition could, in the future, have a negative impact on secondary sources of liquidity. See Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," "Interest Rate Risk, Asset/Liability Management and Liquidity."Liquidity must also be managed at the holding company level. Banking regulators are paying close attention to liquidity at the holding company level, in addition to consolidated and bank liquidity levels. For safety and soundness reasons, banking regulations limit the amount of cash that can be transferred from subsidiary banks to the parent company in the form of loans and dividends. Generally, these limitations are based on the subsidiary banks' regulatory capital levels and their net income. These factors have affected some institutions' ability to pay dividends and have required some institutions to establish borrowing facilities at the holding company level.As discussed under Part I, Item 1, "Business," "Supervision and Regulation," proposals included within the Basel III liquidity framework include new liquidity requirements which, if implemented by U.S. bank regulators, may require the Corporation to maintain increased levels of liquid assets or alter its strategies for liquidity management. Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as other market events, such as a disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation's results of operations.The market value of the Corporation's securities investments, which include municipal securities, auction rate securities, corporate debt securities and equity investments, as well as the revenues the Corporation earns from its trust and investment management services business, are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations and market events. Declines in the values of the Corporation’s securities holdings, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges: •Municipal Securities. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation had $284.8 million of municipal securities issued by various municipalities in its investment portfolio. Ongoing uncertainty with respect to the financial viability of municipal insurers places greater emphasis on the underlying strength of issuers. Increasing pressure on local tax revenues of issuers due to adverse economic conditions could also have a negative impact on the underlying credit quality of issuers. The Corporation evaluates existing and potential holdings primarily on the underlying credit worthiness of the issuing municipality and then, to a lesser extent, on the credit enhancement corresponding to the individual issuance. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 95% of municipal securities were supported by the general obligation of corresponding municipalities. In addition, approximately 84% of these securities were school district issuances that are supported by the general obligation of the corresponding municipalities as of December 31, 2013.16•Auction Rate Securities. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation had $159.3 million of investments in Auction Rate Certificates (ARCs). Recent market prices for ARCs represent forced liquidations or distressed sales and do not provide an accurate basis for determining their fair value. The Corporation does not have the intent to sell the ARCs and does not believe it will more likely than not be required to sell any of the ARCs prior to a recovery of their fair value to amortized cost, which may be at maturity. However, if the Corporation chose to liquidate these securities prior to their maturity, it would likely have to do so at such "distressed" sale prices and would likely do so at a loss.•Corporate Debt Securities. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation had $98.7 million of corporate debt securities issued by financial institutions. Declines in the values of these securities, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges•Equity Investments. The Corporation's holdings of equity investments include stocks of publicly traded financial institutions, including shares of a single financial institution which, as of December 31, 2013, had a fair value of $29.3 million. The Corporation's holdings of this financial institution constituted approximately 72% of the fair value of the Corporation's aggregate holdings of publicly traded financial institutions as of that date.•Investment Management and Trust Services Revenues. The Corporation's investment management and trust services revenue, which is partially based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios, can also be impacted by fluctuations in the securities markets. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. securities markets, in general, or otherwise, the Corporation's revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation's ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers' level of confidence in securities markets.See also Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."The supervision and regulation to which the Corporation is subject is increasing and can be a competitive disadvantage; the Corporation may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, including inadvertent or unintentional violations. Virtually every aspect of the Corporation's operations is subject to extensive regulation and, in the current economic, political and regulatory climate, the Corporation and its bank subsidiaries are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny, especially given the Corporation's size and complexity. The Corporation has six banking subsidiaries. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation by a variety of federal and state banking regulatory agencies. This corporate structure presents challenges, in terms of compliance with different, and potentially inconsistent, regulatory requirements. As a result, the time, expense and internal and external resources associated with regulatory compliance continue to increase, and balancing the need to address regulatory changes and effectively manage growth in non-interest expenses has become more challenging than it has been in the past. Thus, the Corporation’s compliance obligations increase the Corporation's expense, require management's attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors and larger bank competitors.Compliance with banking statutes and regulations is important to the Corporation’s ability to engage in new activities and to consummate certain transactions. Bank regulators are scrutinizing banks through longer and more extensive bank examinations in both the safety and soundness and compliance areas. The results of such examinations could result in a delay in receiving required regulatory approvals for potential new activities and transactional matters. In the event that the Corporation’s compliance record would be determined to be unsatisfactory, such approvals may not be able to be obtained. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher deposit insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation’s operations and expansion activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability.In recent years, a combination of financial reform legislation and heightened scrutiny by banking regulators have significantly increased expectations regarding what constitutes an effective risk and compliance management infrastructure. To keep pace with these expectations, the Corporation has invested considerable resources in initiatives designed to strengthen its risk management framework and regulatory compliance programs.Further, failure to comply with these regulatory requirements, including inadvertent or unintentional violations, may result in the assessment of fines and penalties, the commencement of informal or formal regulatory enforcement actions against the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries. As an example, three of the Corporation's bank subsidiaries were recently subject to civil money penalties for certain alleged failures to comply with the Flood Disaster Protection Act. Other negative consequences also can result from such failures, including regulatory restrictions on the Corporation's activities, including restrictions on the Corporation’s ability to grow through acquisition, reputational damage, restrictions on the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in the 17Corporation's securities and increases in the Corporation's costs of doing business. The occurrence of one or more of these events may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations.Among other areas that the Corporation continues to focus substantial resources on to improve its compliance functions are the requirements under the Flood Disaster Protection Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Patriot Act and related anti-money laundering regulations. Although the Corporation has made progress in continuing to build-out its risk and compliance management infrastructures, the pace at which it has progressed may not be consistent with current regulatory expectations. As a result, the Corporation believes that there is an increasing risk that it, or one or more of its bank subsidiaries, may become subject to regulatory enforcement action in addition to the civil monetary penalties recently imposed against three of its banking subsidiaries. Any such enforcement action by the Corporation’s banking regulators would likely require that it accelerate its efforts to resolve identified deficiencies and improve its compliance functions and to undertake additional remedial actions, and could also involve the imposition of material restrictions on the Corporation’s activities or the assessment of fines or penalties against the Corporation or one or more of its bank subsidiaries.Management has accelerated its efforts to resolve identified deficiencies and enhance the Corporation’s compliance and risk management functions, and this work will continue. Although management is not able to predict the outcome of these matters, costs associated with these efforts, including additional expenses for salaries and benefits, outside professional services, such as consulting and legal, and for enhancing or acquiring systems to strengthen and support the Corporation’s regulatory compliance and risk management infrastructures, could materially affect the Corporation’s results of operations in future periods. See also Part I, Item 1, Business, "Supervision and Regulation."Financial reform legislation continues to have a significant impact on the Corporation's business and results of operations; however, until more implementing regulations are adopted, the extent to which the legislation will impact the Corporation is uncertain.On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The scope of the Dodd-Frank Act impacted many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many regulations, a significant number of which have not yet been adopted or fully implemented. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them under the Dodd-Frank Act and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. The delay in the implementation of many of the regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act on the timelines contemplated by such legislation has resulted in a lack of clear regulatory guidance to banks. The resulting uncertainty has caused banks to take a cautious approach to business initiatives and planning. Additional uncertainty regarding the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act exists due to court decisions and the potential for additional legislative changes to the Dodd-Frank Act. The Corporation, as well as the broader financial services industry, is continuing to assess the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act (and its possible impact on customers' behaviors) on its business and operations but, at this stage, the extent of the impact cannot be fully determined with any degree of certainty. However, the Corporation has been impacted, and will likely continue to be in the future, by the so-called Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which reduced debit card interchange revenue of banks; and revised FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The Durbin amendment is currently the subject of litigation that could result in a further reduction to permissible interchange income, although the outcome of that litigation is not yet final. The Corporation also is likely to be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act in the areas of corporate governance, capital requirements, risk management, stress testing and regulation under consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB. Among other things, the CFPB was given rulemaking authority over most providers of consumer financial services in the U.S., examination and enforcement authority over the consumer operations of large banks, as well as interpretive authority with respect to numerous existing consumer financial services regulations. The CFPB began exercising these oversight authorities over the largest banks during 2011. Because the CFPB is a relatively new agency, the impact on the Corporation, including its retail banking and mortgage businesses, is largely uncertain. However, any new regulatory requirements, or modified interpretations of existing regulations, will affect the Corporation's consumer business practices and operations, potentially resulting in increased compliance costs. Furthermore, the CFPB represents an additional source of potential enforcement or litigation against the Corporation and, as a relatively new agency with a focus on consumer protection, the CFPB may have new or different enforcement or litigation strategies than those typically utilized by other regulatory agencies. Such actions could further increase the Corporation's costs.Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a series of final rules in January 2013 related to mortgage loan origination and mortgage loan servicing. These final rules, most provisions of which became effective January 10, 2014, prohibit creditors, such as the Corporation's bank subsidiaries, from extending residential mortgage loans without regard for the consumer's ability to rep18ay, provide certain safe harbor protections for the origination of loans that meet the requirements for a "qualified mortgage" and add restrictions and requirements to residential mortgage origination and servicing practices. In addition, these rules restrict the imposition of prepayment penalties and compensation practices relating to residential mortgage loan origination. Compliance with these rules will likely increase the Corporation’s overall regulatory compliance costs and required the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries to change their underwriting practices. Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries originate and may subject those subsidiaries to increased potential liability related to their residential loan origination activities. See also Part I, Item 1, "Business," "Supervision and Regulation."Additional growth, particularly at the Corporation's largest subsidiary, Fulton Bank, N.A., will subject it to additional regulation and increased supervision.The Dodd-Frank Act imposes additional regulatory requirements on institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. The Corporation's largest bank subsidiary, Fulton Bank, N.A., had $9.5 billion in assets as of December 31, 2013. Additional growth that results in Fulton Bank, N.A. having assets of $10 billion or more would subject Fulton Bank, N.A. to the following: •Supervision, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial protection laws;•Stress testing requirements;•A modified methodology for calculating FDIC insurance assessments and potentially higher assessment rates as a result of institutions with $10 billion or more in assets being required to bear a greater portion of the cost of raising the reserve ratio to 1.35% as required by the Dodd-Frank Act;•Heightened compliance standards under the Volcker Rule; and•Enhanced supervision as a larger financial institution.See also Part I, Item 1, "Business," "Supervision and Regulation."The Corporation is exposed to many types of operational and other risks; some of these risks are associated with third-party vendors and other financial institutions.The Corporation is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of human error or fraud by employees and outsiders, unsatisfactory performance by employees and vendors, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer and telecommunications systems malfunctions. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Corporation's earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Corporation's business. Negative public opinion could result from the Corporation's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory, compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because the Corporation conducts the majority of its businesses under the "Fulton" brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect the Corporation's other businesses.The Corporation relies upon certain third-party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain its day-to-day operations. For example, the Corporation's businesses are dependent on its ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions; a significant amount of this processing is provided to the Corporation by third-party vendors. Accordingly, the Corporation’s operations are exposed to the risk that these vendors might not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements could be disruptive to the Corporation’s operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, execution of transactions or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as "systemic risk" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Corporation interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Corporation.Any of these operational or other risks could result in the Corporation's diminished ability to operate one or more of its businesses, financial loss, potential liability to customers, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect the Corporation.19The Corporation's framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Corporation; for example, the Corporation’s internal control may be ineffective. The Corporation’s risk management framework is subject to inherent limitations, and there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that the Corporation has not anticipated or identified. If the Corporation's risk management framework proves to be ineffective, the Corporation could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Corporation historically has followed a "super-community" banking strategy under which the Corporation has operated its subsidiary banks autonomously to maximize the advantage of community banking and service to its customers. This banking strategy challenges the Corporation's efforts to manage risk efficiently and effectively through a centralized risk management and compliance function. The evolving need for organization-wide risk management procedures may require further changes in the Corporation's historical multi-bank, de-centralized operating approach. One critical component of the Corporation’s risk management framework is its system of internal controls. Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. See Part II, Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures."Loss of, or failure to adequately safeguard, confidential or proprietary information may adversely affect the Corporation's operations, net income or reputation. The Corporation regularly collects, processes, transmits and stores significant amounts of its own confidential information, as well as confidential information regarding its customers, employees and others that is necessary to the conduct of its business. In some cases, this confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on behalf of the Corporation. A failure in or breach of the Corporation's operational or information security systems, or those of the Corporation's third-party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches or due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage the Corporation’s reputation, increase the Corporation’s costs and/or cause losses and could subject the Corporation to significant regulatory consequences. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect the Corporation's systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Corporation.The safeguards employed by the Corporation do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. As information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve (and possibly increase as technological developments may further increase cyber threats), the Corporation may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance its information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation's results of operations.In the past, the Corporation supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. If the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company's net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. A more frequent evaluation could be triggered by, for example, a broad price decline in the shares of comparable publicly traded financial institutions. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in impairment charges. The Corporation continually encounters technological change.The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Corporation’s operations. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Corporation may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, or effectively deploy new technologies to improve 20the efficiency of its operations. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations.Further, the costs of new technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the past pace of change and innovation, that the Corporation’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Corporation and the needs of its customers.The competition the Corporation faces is significant and may reduce the Corporation's customer base and negatively impact the Corporation's results of operations. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation. In addition, as a result of the deregulation of the financial services industry, the Corporation also competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide and have different cost structures. Some of the Corporation's competitors have greater resources, higher lending limits, lower cost of funds and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation's profitability. The Corporation's profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves. Further, intense competition among lenders is contributing to downward pressure on loan yields. See Part I, Item 1, "Business," "Competition."The Corporation may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Corporation can be intense, and the Corporation may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. As an example and as noted above, the Corporation is engaged in an effort to enhance its compliance and risk management functions. As many of the Corporation’s peers are engaged in similar efforts, the competition for personnel with skills in these areas can be significant and, to the extent that the Corporation is able to attract qualified personnel, the expense associated with hiring such personnel may be substantial. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Corporation’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Corporation’s markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.The Corporation's future growth may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available only at an excessive cost. The Corporation is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation, however, may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth. The Corporation's ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation's control. Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted. In the event of a material decrease in the Corporation's stock price, future issuances of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholder interests.Capital planning has taken on more importance due to regulatory requirements and the Basel III capital standards.Consistent with current regulatory guidance, the Corporation conducts an annual stress test. The Corporation's board of directors and its senior management will be required to consider the results of the stress test in the normal course of business, including as part of its capital planning process and the evaluation of the adequacy of its capital. The Corporation will also be required to report the results of the annual stress test to the Federal Reserve and, beginning with the stress test conducted in the fall of 2014, publicly disclose a summary of the results of the stress test completed under the severely adverse scenario. The results of the stress testing process may lead the Corporation to retain additional capital or alter the mix of its capital components. In addition, the implementation of certain regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect the Corporation's regulatory capital position relative to that of its competitors, including those who may not be subject to the same regulatory requirement.21In 2013, the federal banking regulatory agencies implemented the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules, including: (i) new minimum Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.50% of risk-weighted assets, (ii) increased minimum Tier 1 capital ratio (from 4.00% to 6.00% of risk-weighted assets), (iii) retention of the current minimum Total capital ratio of 8.00% of risk-weighted assets and the minimum Tier 1 leverage capital ratio at 4.00% of average assets and (iv) a new "capital conservation buffer" of 2.50% above the minimum risk-based capital requirements which must be maintained to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments. As a result of the implementation of the new capital standards, certain non-qualifying capital instruments, including cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities, will be excluded as a component of Tier 1 capital for institutions of the Corporation’s size.The fully phased-in capital standards under the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules require banks to maintain more capital than the minimum levels required under current regulatory capital standards. The new minimum regulatory capital requirements begin to apply to the Corporation in 2015. The required minimum capital conservation buffer will be phased in incrementally starting on January 1, 2016 and will be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The failure to meet the established capital requirements could result in the federal banking regulators placing limitations or conditions on the activities of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries or restricting the commencement of new activities, and such failure could subject the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries to a variety of enforcement remedies, including limiting the ability of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries to pay dividends, issuing a directive to increase capital and terminating FDIC deposit insurance. In addition, the failure to comply with the capital conservation buffer will result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary cash bonus payments to executive officers. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation believes its current capital levels would meet the fully-phased in minimum capital requirements, including capital conservation buffers, as set forth in the U.S. Basel III Capital Rules. See Part I, Item 1, "Business," "Supervision and Regulation - Capital Requirements."The Corporation is a holding company and relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for substantially all of its revenue and its ability to make dividends, distributions and other payments.The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries, and depends on the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries, principally its banking subsidiaries, for substantially all of its revenues. As a result, the Corporation's ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal and state regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. There are various regulatory and prudential supervisory restrictions, which may change from time to time, that impact the ability of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future. If the Corporation does not receive sufficient cash dividends or is unable to borrow from its banking subsidiaries, then the Corporation may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends to its shareholders, repurchase its common stock or service its debt obligations. See Part I, Item 1, "Business," "Supervision and Regulation - Loans and Dividends from Subsidiary Banks."A downgrade in the credit ratings of the Corporation or its bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.Fitch, Inc. and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. continuously evaluate the Corporation and its subsidiaries, and their ratings of the Corporation and its subsidiary's long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within its and its subsidiaries' control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Moreover, Fitch and Moody's have indicated that they are evaluating the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the rating support assumptions currently included in their methodologies. In light of these reviews and the continued focus on the financial services industry generally, the Corporation and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades by Fitch or Moody's could have a significant and immediate impact on the Corporation's funding and liquidity through cash obligations, reduced funding capacity and collateral triggers. A reduction in the Corporation's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could also increase the Corporation's borrowing costs and limit its access to the capital markets.Downgrades in the credit or financial strength ratings assigned to the counterparties with whom the Corporation transacts, could create the perception that the Corporation's financial condition will be adversely impacted as a result of potential future defaults by such counterparties. Additionally, the Corporation could be adversely affected by a general, negative perception of financial institutions caused by the downgrade of other financial institutions. Accordingly, ratings downgrades for other financial institutions could affect the market price of the Corporation's stock and could limit access to or increase its cost of capital.22Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Corporation's shareholders.Provisions of banking laws, Pennsylvania corporate law and of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Corporation or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Corporation. The Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include certain provisions which may be considered to be "anti-takeover" in nature because they may have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult the acquisition of control over the Corporation by means of a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy contest or similar transaction. These provisions are intended to protect the Corporation's shareholders by providing a measure of assurance that the Corporation's shareholders will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited takeover bid and by preventing a successful takeover bidder from exercising its voting control to the detriment of the other shareholders. However, the anti-takeover provisions set forth in the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, taken as a whole, may discourage a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy solicitation or similar transaction relating to the Corporation's common stock. To the extent that these provisions actually discourage such a transaction, holders of the Corporation's common stock may not have an opportunity to dispose of part or all of their stock at a higher price than that prevailing in the market. In addition, some of these provisions make it more difficult to remove, and thereby may serve to entrench, the Corporation's incumbent directors and officers, even if their removal would be regarded by some shareholders as desirable.The ability of a third party to acquire the Corporation is also limited under applicable banking regulations. The BHCA requires any "bank holding company" (as defined in that Act) to obtain the approval of the FRB prior to acquiring more than 5% of the Corporation’s outstanding common stock. Any person other than a bank holding company is required to obtain prior approval of the FRB to acquire 10% or more of the Corporation’s outstanding common stock under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978. Any holder of 25% or more of the Corporation’s outstanding common stock, other than an individual, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the BHCA. In addition, the delays associated with obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for acquisitions of interests in bank holding companies also tend to make more difficult certain acquisition structures, such as a tender offer. While these provisions do not prohibit an acquisition, they would likely act as a deterrent factor to an unsolicited takeover attempt.23Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.