Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation's common stock involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. While there have been recent indications that economic conditions are improving, the Corporation continues to operate in a difficult business environment. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the United States was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, the improvement has been sluggish and limited in scope. There can be no assurance that this improvement will continue and certain sectors, such as real estate and manufacturing, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Some state and local governments and many businesses are still experiencing serious financial difficulty.The current challenges affecting the Corporation, some of which are addressed in more detail below, include the following:•Low market interest rates, which have been projected by many to continue for some time, have pressured net interest margins as interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, have been reinvested or repriced at lower rates. Banks are also reluctant to invest in longer-term assets at historically low interest rates; •Loan demand remains sluggish as consumers continue to reduce debt levels and increase savings and many businesses are reluctant to expand their operations. Confidence levels of both individuals and businesses in the economy appear to be improving but their confidence remains fragile;•The time and expense associated with regulatory compliance and risk management efforts continues to increase. Thus, balancing the need to address regulatory changes and the desire to enhance shareholder value has become more challenging than it has been in the past; •Bank regulators are scrutinizing banks through longer and more extensive bank examinations in both the safety and 10soundness and compliance areas. In addition, both regulators and banks are being challenged with keeping up with the sweeping changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act;•The reputation of, and public confidence in, the banking industry appears to have suffered as a result of continuing criticisms of the industry by politicians and the media. In many cases, these criticisms have not differentiated community banking organizations, such as the Corporation, from larger, more diverse organizations that engaged in certain practices that many observers believe helped contribute to the recent difficulties in the financial markets and the economy generally; •The bank regulatory agencies have been challenged in implementing many of the regulations mandated by the Dodd Frank Act on the timelines contemplated by such legislation, resulting in a lack of clear regulatory guidance to banks. The resulting uncertainty has caused banks to take a cautious approach to business initiatives and planning; •Beginning in October 2011, fee income has been adversely impacted by regulatory changes that have reduced debit card interchange revenue;•Merger and acquisition activity has been restrained due to factors such as market volatility, lower market prices of the stock of potential buyers, lingering credit concerns, regulatory uncertainty and a disparity in price expectations between potential buyers and potential sellers. As a result, supplementing internal growth through acquisitions has been more difficult; and•Concerns about the European Union sovereign debt crisis have caused uncertainty for financial markets globally. Difficult conditions in the economy and the capital markets may materially adversely affect the Corporation's business and results of operations. The Corporation's results of operations and financial condition are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The Corporation's financial performance is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where the Corporation operates and in the United States as a whole. The business environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Corporation offers. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors.Included among the potential adverse effects of economic downturns on the Corporation are the following:•Economic downturns and the composition of the Corporation's loan portfolio could impact the level of loan charge-offs and the provision for credit losses and may affect the Corporation's net income. National, regional and local economic conditions can impact the Corporation's loan portfolio. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation may depress the Corporation's earnings and consequently its financial condition because: ◦borrowers may not be able to repay their loans;◦the value of the collateral securing the Corporation's loans to borrowers may decline; and◦the quality of the Corporation's loan portfolio may decline.Any of these scenarios could require the Corporation to increase its provision for credit losses, which would negatively impact its results of operations and could result in charge-offs of a higher percentage of its loans. Approximately $5.2 billion, or 43.6%, of the Corporation's loan portfolio was in commercial mortgage and construction loans at December 31, 2011. The Corporation did not have a concentration of credit risk with any single borrower, industry or geographical location. However, the performance of real estate markets and the weak economic conditions in general may adversely impact the performance of these loans. In 2011, the Corporation's provision for credit losses was $135.0 million. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2011 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may be required to increase its provision for credit losses due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting its results of operations. •Economic downturns or a protracted low-growth environment, particularly when these conditions affect the Corporation's geographic market areas, could reduce the demand for the Corporation's financial products, such as loans and deposits. The Corporation's success depends significantly upon the growth in population, employment and income levels, deposits, loans and housing starts in its geographic markets. Unlike large, national institutions, the 11Corporation is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which the Corporation operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, its business could be adversely affected. In addition, increased market competition in a lower demand environment could adversely affect the profit potential of the Corporation; for example, in order to remain competitive, the Corporation may be required to offer interest rates on loans and deposits that might not be offered in different business conditions. •Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject the Corporation to additional regulation. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation and examinations by various regulatory authorities. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact the Corporation's operations and financial condition. The potential exists for new federal or state regulations regarding lending and funding practices, capital requirements, deposit insurance premiums, other bank-focused special assessments and liquidity standards. Bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which may result in the issuance of formal enforcement orders.Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's net income. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the national money supply and engages in other lending and investment activities in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. Among the techniques available to the Federal Reserve Board are engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation's net income, accounting for approximately 76% of total revenues in 2011. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect the Corporation's net interest income and financial condition. Regional and local economic conditions, as well as fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board, may affect prevailing interest rates. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as other market events, such as a disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation's results of operations.As of December 31, 2011, the Corporation's equity investments consisted of Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank stock ($82.5 million), common stocks of publicly traded financial institutions ($27.9 million), and other equity investments ($6.7 million). The value of the securities in the Corporation's equity portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including factors that impact the performance of the U.S. securities market in general and specific risks associated with the financial institution sector. General economic conditions and uncertainty surrounding the financial institution sector as a whole has impacted the value of these securities. Declines in bank stock values, in general, as well as deterioration in the performance of specific banks, could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. As of December 31, 2011, the Corporation had $120.8 million of corporate debt securities issued by financial institutions. As with stocks of financial institutions, continued declines in the values of these securities, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. Included in corporate debt securities as of December 31, 2011 were $5.1 million in pooled trust preferred securities. Further deterioration in the ability of banks within pooled trust preferred holdings to make contractual debt payments could result in an adverse impact on the credit-related valuation portion of these securities.As of December 31, 2011, the Corporation had $322.0 million of municipal securities issued by various municipalities in its investment portfolio. Ongoing uncertainty with respect to the financial viability of municipal insurers places much greater emphasis on the underlying strength of issuers. Increasing pressure on local tax revenues of issuers due to adverse economic conditions could also have a negative impact on the underlying credit quality of issuers. The Corporation evaluates existing and potential holdings primarily on the underlying credit-worthiness of the issuing municipality and then, to a lesser extent, on the credit enhancement corresponding to the individual issuance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 94% of municipal securities were supported by the general obligation of corresponding municipalities. In addition, approximately 72% of these securities were school district issuances that are supported by the general obligation of the corresponding municipalities as of December 31, 2011.The Corporation's investment management and trust division, Fulton Financial Advisors, previously held student loan auction rate 12securities, also known as auction rate certificates (ARCs), for some of its customers' accounts. From the second quarter of 2008 through 2009, the Corporation purchased illiquid ARCs from customers of Fulton Financial Advisors. Total ARCs included in the Corporation's investment securities at December 31, 2011 were $225.2 million. Continued uncertainty with respect to resolution of auction rate security market illiquidity, the current low interest rate environment and potential changes in repayment performance of certain student loans underlying the ARCs that are not guaranteed by the federal government could adversely affect the performance of individual holdings.The Corporation's investment management and trust services income could also be impacted by fluctuations in the securities markets. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. securities markets, in general or otherwise, the Corporation's revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation's ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers' level of confidence in securities markets. The supervision and regulation to which the Corporation is subject can be a competitive disadvantage. The Corporation is a registered financial holding company, and its subsidiary banks are depository institutions whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Corporation is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In general, these laws and regulations establish: the eligible business activities for the Corporation; certain acquisition and merger restrictions; limitations on intercompany transactions such as loans and dividends; capital adequacy requirements; requirements for anti-money laundering programs; and other compliance matters. Compliance with these statutes and regulations is important to the Corporation's ability to engage in new activities and to consummate additional acquisitions. While these statutes and regulations are generally designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and the FDIC insurance funds, they do not eliminate risk, and compliance with such statutes and regulations increases the Corporation's expense, requires management's attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors.Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation's activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. The federal government, the Federal Reserve Board and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken, and may in the future take other actions, in response to the stress on the financial system. For example, the Federal Reserve Board recently announced its intention to maintain short-term interest rates near zero through at least late 2014. Such actions, although intended to aid the financial markets, and continued volatility in the markets could materially and adversely affect the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of the Corporation's common stock.In addition, the Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles, governmental economic and monetary policies and collection efforts by taxing authorities.Financial reform legislation is likely to have a significant impact on the Corporation's business and results of operations; however, until more implementing regulations are adopted, the extent to which the legislation will impact the Corporation is uncertain.On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability Oversight Council, with oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have broad regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services. The Dodd-Frank Act also changed the responsibilities of the current federal banking regulators, imposed additional corporate governance and disclosure requirements in areas such as executive compensation and proxy access, and limited or prohibited proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks. The scope of the Dodd-Frank Act impacted many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many regulations over the next several months and years. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them under the Dodd-Frank Act and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. Additional uncertainty regarding the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act exists due to the potential for additional legislative changes to the Dodd-Frank Act. The Corporation, as well as the broader financial services industry, is continuing to assess the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act (and its possible impact on customers' behaviors) on its business and operations but, at this stage, the extent of the impact cannot be fully determined with any degree of certainty. However, the Corporation has been impacted, and will likely continue to be in the future, by the so-called Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which reduced debit card interchange revenue of banks; revised deposit insurance assessments; 13and increased compliance costs. It also is likely to be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act in the areas of corporate governance, capital requirements, risk management, stress testing and regulation under consumer protection laws. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation's earnings.In response to the impact of economic conditions since December 2007 on banks generally and on the FDIC deposit insurance fund (DIF), the FDIC changed its risk-based assessment system and increased base assessment rates. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years' worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. In February 2011, as required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a ruling pursuant to which the assessment base against which FDIC assessments for deposit insurance are made was changed. Instead of FDIC insurance assessments being based upon an insured bank's deposits, FDIC insurance assessments are now generally based on an insured bank's total average assets, minus average tangible equity. With this change, the Corporation's overall FDIC insurance cost has declined. However, a change in the risk categories applicable to the Corporation's bank subsidiaries, further adjustments to base assessment rates and any special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. In addition, should one of the Corporation's subsidiary banks have assets above $10 billion for four consecutive quarters, a higher assessment could apply to that subsidiary for the purposes of calculating its FDIC insurance premium. The Corporation's largest subsidiary bank, Fulton Bank, N. A., had $9.0 billion in assets as of December 31, 2011. Based on current regulations, the Corporation has estimated that Fulton Bank, N. A., would pay approximately $1 million in additional FDIC insurance premiums if it were to reach the $10 billion threshold.The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that the FDIC take steps necessary to increase the level of the DIF to 1.35% of total insured deposits by September 30, 2020. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a Restoration Plan to achieve that goal. Certain elements of the Restoration Plan are left to future FDIC rulemaking, as are the potential for increases to the assessment rates, which may become necessary to achieve the targeted level of the DIF. Future FDIC rulemaking in this regard may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation.The Corporation may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. The Corporation maintains systems and procedures designed to ensure that it complies with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal or regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, the Corporation is subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage the Corporation's reputation (see below) and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in the Corporation's securities. The heightened, industry-wide attention associated with the processing of residential mortgage foreclosures may adversely affect the Corporation's business.As a result of the economic downturn which began in December, 2007, larger banks and mortgage servicing companies have been challenged with processing tens of thousands of foreclosures nationwide. In late 2010, the media began reporting on possible processing errors and documentation problems in mortgage foreclosures at several of the nation's largest banks and mortgage servicing businesses. It was reported that, in some foreclosures, the procedural steps (which often vary by state and in some cases by local jurisdictions within a state) required to complete a foreclosure had not been followed. As a result, there were questions concerning the validity of some foreclosures. Since 2010 the foreclosure procedures used by banks and servicing companies have continued to come under scrutiny by consumer advocates, attorneys representing borrowers, state Attorney Generals and banking regulators. As a financial institution, the Corporation offers a variety of residential mortgage loan products. A majority of the mortgage loans originated by the Corporation are made in the Corporation's five-state market. The Corporation also services loans owned by investors in accordance with the investors' guidelines. A small percentage of the Corporation's residential mortgage borrowers default on their mortgage loans. When this occurs, the Corporation attempts to resolve the default in a way that provides the greatest return to the Corporation or is in accordance with investor guidelines; typically, options are pursued that allow the borrower to remain the owner of their home. However, when these efforts are not successful, it becomes necessary for the Corporation to foreclose on the loan. The Corporation analyzes whether foreclosure is necessary on a case-by-case basis and the number of residential foreclosures undertaken by the Corporation is not substantial. The Corporation initiated approximately 400 and 300 14residential foreclosure actions during 2010 and 2011, respectively, for residential loans the Corporation owned or serviced for investors. Although the number of foreclosures undertaken by the Corporation on residential mortgage loans in its portfolio or that the Corporation services for others is substantially less than those of larger banks and mortgage servicers, the Corporation has received inquiries from banking regulators, title insurance companies and others regarding its foreclosure procedures. As a result of these inquiries and the publicity surrounding the mortgage foreclosure area nationally, the Corporation has reviewed the requirements for foreclosures in each of the states where most of its foreclosures occur and its own foreclosure procedures. The Corporation has also consulted with the law firms it uses to undertake foreclosures in each of the states in its primary markets and in other states where it has substantial mortgage lending activities regarding foreclosure procedures. In addition, in 2011, banking regulators required financial institutions to perform a self-assessment of their foreclosure management process to identify any weaknesses in their processes and to determine whether these weaknesses resulted in any financial harm to borrowers. The Corporation performed such a self-assessment in 2011. The Corporation does not expect any deficiencies that it has discovered, or which it might discover in the future, as a result of these self-assessments and consultations will have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Corporation. The Corporation will continue to monitor its foreclosure procedures, and other areas of the foreclosure process, as well as future legal and regulatory developments concerning mortgage foreclosure processes in general. The Corporation's framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Corporation. The Corporation's risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. The Corporation has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which the Corporation is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to the Corporation's risk management strategies and there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that the Corporation has not anticipated or identified. If the Corporation's risk management framework proves to be ineffective, the Corporation could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Negative publicity could damage the Corporation's reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Corporation's earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Corporation's business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Corporation's ability to keep and attract customers and expose it to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from the Corporation's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory, compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because the Corporation conducts the majority of its businesses under the “Fulton” brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect the Corporation's other businesses. Loss of, or failure to adequately safeguard, confidential or proprietary information may adversely affect the Corporation's operations, net income or reputation. The Corporation regularly collects, processes, transmits and stores significant amounts of confidential information regarding its customers, employees and others. This information is necessary for the conduct of the Corporation's business activities, including the ongoing maintenance of deposit, loan, investment management and other account relationships for the Corporation's customers, and receiving instructions and affecting transactions for those customers and other users of the Corporation's products and services. In addition to confidential information regarding its customers, employees and others, the Corporation compiles, processes, transmits and stores proprietary, non-public information concerning its own business, operations, plans and strategies. In some cases, this confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on behalf of the Corporation.Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. A failure in or breach of the Corporation's operational or information security systems, or those of the Corporation's third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches or due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions could adversely affect our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect the Corporation's systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Corporation.If this confidential or proprietary information were to be mishandled, misused or lost the Corporation could be exposed to significant 15regulatory consequences, reputational damage, civil litigation and financial loss. Mishandling, misuse or loss of this confidential or proprietary information could occur, for example, if the confidential or proprietary information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the systems or employees of the Corporation, or the systems or employees of third parties which have collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored the information on the Corporation's behalf, where the information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties or where there is a failure or breach of the network, communications or information systems which are used to collect, compile, process, transmit or store the information. Although the Corporation employs a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect this confidential and proprietary information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. Similarly, when confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on behalf of the Corporation, the Corporation's policies and procedures require that the third party agree to maintain the confidentiality of the information, establish and maintain policies and procedures designed to preserve the confidentiality of the information, and permit the Corporation to confirm the third party's compliance with the terms of the agreement. Although the Corporation believes that it has adequate information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, the Corporation may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance its information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.The Corporation will be completing a transition to a new core processing system. If the Corporation is not able to complete the transition as planned, or unanticipated events occur during the transition, the Corporation's operations, net income, or reputation could be adversely affected.The Corporation will be transitioning to a new core processing system over the next two years. The core processing system is used to maintain customer and account records, reflect account transactions and activity, and support the Corporation's customer relationship management systems for substantially all of the Corporation's deposit and loan customers. The Corporation has assembled a team of officers and employees representing key business units and functional areas throughout the Corporation to plan and oversee the transition process. This team, working with the vendor for the core processing system and outside project management consultants, has developed a comprehensive work plan for completing the transition. The transition will be completed in several phases, with one or two of the Corporation's six subsidiary banks being transitioned to the new system in each phase. Extensive pre-transition testing of, and employee training in, processing routines and new core processing system operation will be conducted before each of the Corporation's subsidiary banks are transitioned to the new core processing system. The phased approach is expected to facilitate pre-transition system testing and employee training, reduce the potential impact of any unanticipated events that may arise during the conversion and enable the Corporation to allocate sufficient resources to both transition-related tasks and routine processing and customer service activities.If the Corporation is not able to complete the transition to the new core processing system as expected in accordance with the work plan, or if unanticipated events occur during or following the transition, the Corporation may not be able to timely process transactions for its customers, those customers may not be able to complete transactions in or affecting their accounts that are maintained on the core processing system, or the Corporation may not be able to perform contractual and other obligations to its customers or other parties, such as payment networks in which the Corporation participates. Should any of these consequences occur, the Corporation may incur additional expense in its financial and regulatory reporting, in processing or re-processing transactions, and the Corporation may not be able to meet customer expectations for transaction processing and customer service, customers may lose confidence in the Corporation and close their accounts with the Corporation, and the Corporation may incur liability under contractual or other arrangements with customers or other parties. Any of these events, should they occur, could have a material and adverse impact on the Corporation's operations, net income, reputation or the trading price of the Corporation's common stock, as well as expose the Corporation to civil liability or regulatory sanctions.The Corporation's business is dependent on its network and information processing systems, and, in some cases, those of the Corporation's third-party vendors, and the disruption or failure of those systems may adversely affect the Corporation's operations, net income, or reputation.The Corporation's business activities are dependent on its ability to accurately and timely process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If any of its financial, accounting, network or other information processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Corporation could be materially adversely affected. Third parties with which the Corporation does business could also be sources of operational risk to the Corporation, including the risk that the third parties' own network and information processing systems could fail. Any of these occurrences could materially diminish the Corporation's ability to operate one or more of the Corporation's businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect the Corporation.16The Corporation may be subject to disruptions or failures of the Corporation's financial, accounting, network and information processing systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the Corporation's control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets or terrorist acts. The Corporation has developed a comprehensive emergency recovery program, which includes plans to maintain or resume operations in the event of an emergency, such as a power outage or disease pandemic, and contingency plans in the event that operations or systems cannot be resumed or restored. The emergency recovery program is periodically reviewed and updated, and components of the emergency recovery program are regularly tested and validated. The Corporation also reviews and evaluates the emergency recovery programs of vendors which provide certain third-party systems that the Corporation considers critical. While the Corporation believes the emergency recovery program and its efforts to evaluate the emergency recovery programs of certain third-party systems providers help mitigate this risk, disruptions or failures affecting any of these systems may give rise to interruption in service to customers, damage to the Corporation's reputation and loss or liability to the Corporation. If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation's results of operations. The Corporation has historically supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. If the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company's net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. A more frequent evaluation could be triggered by, for example, a broad price decline in the shares of comparable publicly traded financial institutions. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. Based on its annual goodwill impairment tests, the Corporation determined that no impairment charges were necessary in 2009, 2010 or 2011. During 2008, the Corporation recorded a $90.0 million goodwill impairment charge. As of December 31, 2011, the Corporation had $536.0 million of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in additional impairment charges. The competition the Corporation faces is significant and may reduce the Corporation's customer base and negatively impact the Corporation's results of operations. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation. In addition, as a result of the deregulation of the financial industry, the Corporation also competes with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide and have different cost structures. Some of the Corporation's competitors, including certain super-regional and national bank holding companies that have made acquisitions in its market area, have greater resources than the Corporation has and, as such, may have higher lending limits, lower cost of funds and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation's profitability. The Corporation's profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves. The Corporation's future growth and liquidity needs may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available at an excessive cost. The Corporation is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation, however, may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth. The Corporation's ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation's control. Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted. In the event of a material decrease in the Corporation's stock price, future issuances of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholder interests.17In addition to primary sources of liquidity in the form of principal and interest payments on outstanding loans and investments and deposits, the Corporation maintains secondary sources that provide it with additional liquidity. These secondary sources may include secured and unsecured borrowings from sources such as the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank and third-party commercial banks. The Corporation believes that it maintains a strong liquidity position and that it is well positioned to withstand current market conditions. However, market conditions have been negatively impacted by disruptions in the liquidity markets in the past and such disruptions or an adverse change in the Corporation's results of operations or financial condition could, in the future, have a negative impact on secondary sources of liquidity.The Corporation is a holding company and relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for substantially all of its revenue and its ability to make dividends, distributions and other payments.The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries, and depends on the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries, principally its banking subsidiaries, for substantially all of its revenues. As a result, the Corporation's ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal and state regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. There are various regulatory and prudential supervisory restrictions, which may change from time to time, that impact the ability of its banking subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it. For additional information regarding the regulatory restrictions on the Corporation and its subsidiaries, see “Item 1 Business - Supervision and Regulation.”If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. Depending on the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries, the applicable regulatory authority might deem the Corporation to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice if its banking subsidiaries were to pay dividends. The Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks and bank holding companies only to pay dividends out of current operating earnings. In 2009, the Federal Reserve Board released a supervisory letter advising bank holding companies, among other things, that as a general matter a bank holding company should inform its Federal Reserve Bank and should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its dividends if (1) the bank holding company's net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (2) the bank holding company's prospective rate of earnings is not consistent with the bank holding company's capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition, or (3) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios.Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Corporation's shareholders.Provisions of Pennsylvania law and of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Corporation or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Corporation. The Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include certain provisions which may be considered to be “anti-takeover” in nature because they may have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult the acquisition of control over the Corporation by means of a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy contest or similar transaction. These provisions are intended to protect the Corporation's shareholders by providing a measure of assurance that the Corporation's shareholders will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited takeover bid and by preventing a successful takeover bidder from exercising its voting control to the detriment of the other shareholders. However, the anti-takeover provisions set forth in the Corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, taken as a whole, may discourage a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy solicitation or similar transaction relating to the Corporation's common stock. To the extent that these provisions actually discourage such a transaction, holders of the Corporation's common stock may not have an opportunity to dispose of part or all of their stock at a higher price than that prevailing in the market. In addition, some of these provisions make it more difficult to remove, and thereby may serve to entrench, the Corporation's incumbent directors and officers, even if their removal would be regarded by some shareholders as desirable.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.18