ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties, some of which are difficult to predict and beyond the Company’s control, could negatively impact the Company. As a financial institution, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk, risks from economic or market conditions, and general business risks among others. Adverse experience with these or other risks could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of its common stock. Interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s net interest income, its largest source of revenue, is highly dependent on achieving a positive spread between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract deposits, make loans, and achieve a positive spread resulting in compression of the net interest margin. Liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will have insufficient cash or access to cash to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and for other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. The Company’s liquidity can be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, market disruption, operational problems affecting third parties or the Company, unfavorable pricing, competition, the Company’s credit rating and regulatory restrictions. Credit risk. Credit risk is the risk that loan customers or other counter-parties will be unable to perform their contractual obligations resulting in a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers could impact the Company’s credit losses. In addition, real estate valuations could also impact the Company’s credit losses as the Company maintains $518 million in loans secured by commercial, agricultural, and residential real estate. A significant decline in real estate values could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company’s total loan balances by industry exceeded 25% of total risk-based capital for each of three industries as of December 31, 2007. A listing of these industries is contained in under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Loans” herein. A significant change in one of these industries such as a significant decline in agricultural crop prices, could adversely impact the Company’s credit losses. Operational risk. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. Operational risk includes compliance or legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards. Operational risk also encompasses transaction risk, which includes losses from fraud, error, the inability to deliver products or services, and loss or theft of information. Losses resulting from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or forgone opportunities. Any of these could potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risk of changes in economic or market conditions. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to the general business and economic conditions in the United States and in its area of operations in central Illinois. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, agricultural prices for land and crops, commercial and residential real estate values, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which it conducts business. An economic downturn within the Company’s footprint could negatively impact household and corporate incomes. This impact may lead to decreased demand for loan and deposit products and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or principal on their loans. This could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions are generally beyond the Company’s control and difficult to predict. General business risks. The Company is also exposed to various business risks that could have a negative effect on the financial performance of the Company. These risks include: changes in customer behavior, changes in competition, new litigation or changes to existing litigation, claims and assessments, environmental liabilities, real or threatened acts of war or terrorist activity, adverse weather, changes in accounting standards, legislative or regulatory changes, taxing authority interpretations, and an inability on the Company’s part to retain and attract skilled employees. In addition to these risks identified by the Company, investments in the Company’s common stock involve risk. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including: volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies, changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, and variations in quarterly or annual operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 