Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation’s common stock involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Difficult conditions in the economy and the capital markets may materially adversely affect the Corporation’s business and results of operations. The Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. The volatility and disruption in these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. Concerns over the availability and cost of credit and the decline in the U.S. real estate market also contributed to increased volatility in the capital and credit markets and diminished expectations for the economy. These factors precipitated the recent economic slowdown, and may have an adverse effect on the Corporation. Included among the potential adverse effects of economic downturns on the Corporation are the following: • Economic downturns and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could impact the level of loan charge-offs and the provision for credit losses and may affect the Corporation’s net income or loss. National, regional, and local economic conditions could impact the Corporation’s loan portfolio. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because: • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of these scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for credit losses, which would negatively impact its results of operations. Approximately $5.2 billion, or 43.4%, of the Corporation’s loan portfolio was in commercial mortgage and construction loans at December 31, 2010. The Corporation did not have a concentration of credit risk with any single borrower, industry or geographical location. However, the performance of real estate markets and the weak economic conditions in general may adversely impact the performance of these loans. In addition, the amount of the Corporation’s provision for credit losses and the percentage of loans it is required to charge-off may be impacted by the overall risk composition of the loan portfolio. In 2010, the Corporation’s provision for loan losses was $160.0 million. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2010 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may be required to increase its provision for credit losses or charge-off a higher percentage of loans due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting its results of operations. 9 Table of Contents • Economic downturns, especially ones affecting the Corporation’s geographic market areas, could reduce the Corporation’s customer deposits and demand for financial products, such as loans. The Corporation’s success depends significantly upon the growth in population, unemployment and income levels, deposits and housing starts in its geographic markets. Unlike large national institutions, the Corporation is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which the Corporation operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, its business could be adversely affected. • Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject the Corporation to additional regulation. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact the Corporation’s operations and financial performance. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation and examinations by various regulatory authorities. The potential exists for new federal or state regulations regarding lending and funding practices, capital requirements, deposit insurance premiums, other bank-focused special assessments and liquidity standards. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which may result in the issuance of formal enforcement orders. • The Corporation’s future growth and liquidity needs may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available at an excessive cost. The Corporation is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation, however, may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth. The Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation’s control. Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted. In addition, future issuances of equity securities could dilute the interests of existing shareholders and could cause a decline in the Corporation’s stock price. In addition to primary sources of liquidity in the form of principal and interest payments on outstanding loans and investments and deposits, the Corporation maintains secondary sources that provide it with additional liquidity. These secondary sources include secured and unsecured borrowings from sources such as the FRB and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and third-party commercial banks. The Corporation maintains a strong liquidity position and believes that it is well positioned to withstand current market conditions. However, market liquidity conditions have been negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets in the past and such disruptions could, in the future, have a negative impact on secondary sources of liquidity. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s net income or loss. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government, including those of the FRB, which regulates the national money supply in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. Among the techniques available to the FRB are engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation’s net income, accounting for approximately 76% of total revenues in 2010. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect the Corporation’s net interest income and financial condition. Regional and local economic conditions as well as fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the FRB, may affect prevailing interest rates. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. 10 Table of Contents The supervision and regulation to which the Corporation is subject can be a competitive disadvantage. The Corporation is a registered financial holding company, and its subsidiary banks are depository institutions whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Corporation is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In general, these laws and regulations establish: the eligible business activities for the Corporation; certain acquisition and merger restrictions; limitations on intercompany transactions such as loans and dividends; capital adequacy requirements; requirements for anti-money laundering programs; and other compliance matters, among other regulations. Compliance with these statutes and regulations is important to the Corporation’s ability to engage in new activities and to consummate additional acquisitions. In addition, the Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles and governmental economic and monetary policies. While these statutes and regulations are generally designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and the FDIC insurance funds, they do not eliminate risk, and compliance with such statutes and regulations increases the Corporation’s expense, requires management’s attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. The federal government, the FRB and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken, and may in the future take other actions, in response to the stress on the financial system. For example, in response to the recent stress affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) was enacted. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury was authorized to, among other things, deploy up to $750 billion into the financial system. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted, which amended EESA. Such actions, although intended to aid the financial markets, and continued volatility in the markets could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock. Recently enacted financial reform legislation may have a significant impact on the Corporation’s business and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates the Financial Stability Oversight Council, with oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have broad regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services. The Dodd-Frank Act also changes the responsibilities of the current federal banking regulators, imposes additional corporate governance and disclosure requirements in areas such as executive compensation and proxy access, and limits or prohibits proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks. The scope of the Dodd-Frank Act impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations over the next several months and years. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them under the Dodd-Frank Act and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. Additional uncertainty regarding the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act exists due to the potential for additional legislative changes to the Dodd-Frank Act. The Corporation, as well as the broader financial services industry, is continuing to assess the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on its business and operations, but at this stage, the extent of the impact cannot be determined with any degree of certainty. However, the Corporation is likely to be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act in the areas of corporate governance, deposit insurance assessments, capital requirements, risk management, stress testing, and regulation under consumer protection laws. Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as other market events, such as a disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, the Corporation’s equity investments consisted of FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank stock ($96.4 million), common stocks of publicly traded financial institutions ($33.1 million), and mutual funds and other equity investments ($7.0 million). The value of the securities in the Corporation’s equity portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including factors that impact the performance of the U.S. securities market in general and specific risks associated with the financial institution sector. Historically, gains on sales of stocks of other financial institutions had been a recurring component of the Corporation’s earnings. However, general economic conditions and uncertainty surrounding the financial institution sector as a whole has impacted the value of these securities. 11 Table of Contents Declines in bank stock values, in general, as well as, deterioration in the performance of specific banks could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. As of December 31, 2010, the Corporation had $122.2 million of corporate debt securities issued by financial institutions. As with stocks of financial institutions, continued declines in the values of these securities, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. Included in corporate debt securities as of December 31, 2010 were $8.3 million in pooled trust preferred securities. Further deterioration in the ability of banks, within pooled trust preferred holdings, to make contractual debt payments could result in an adverse impact on the credit-related valuation portion of these securities. As of December 31, 2010, the Corporation had $349.6 million of municipal securities issued by various municipalities in its investment portfolio. Ongoing uncertainty with respect to the financial viability of municipal insurers places much greater emphasis on the underlying strength of issuers. Increasing pressure on local tax revenues of issuers due to adverse economic conditions could also have an adverse impact on the underlying credit quality of issuers. The Corporation evaluates existing and potential holdings primarily on the underlying credit worthiness of the issuing municipality and then, to a lesser extent, on the credit enhancement corresponding to the individual issuance. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 94% of municipal securities were supported by the general obligation of corresponding municipalities. In addition, approximately 69% of these securities were school district issuances that are supported by the general obligation of the corresponding municipalities, as of December 31, 2010. The Corporation’s investment management and trust division, Fulton Financial Advisors, previously held student loan auction rate securities, also known as auction rate certificates (ARCs), for some of its customers’ accounts. From the second quarter of 2008 through 2009, the Corporation purchased illiquid ARCs from customers of Fulton Financial Advisors. Total ARCs included in the Corporation’s investment securities at December 31, 2010 were $260.7 million. Continued uncertainty with respect to resolution of auction rate security market illiquidity and the current low interest rate environment could adversely affect the performance of individual holdings. The Corporation’s investment management and trust services income could also be impacted by fluctuations in the securities markets. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. securities markets in general, or otherwise, the Corporation’s revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers’ level of confidence in securities markets. If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. The Corporation has historically supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. If the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. Based on its annual goodwill impairment tests, the Corporation determined that no impairment charges were necessary in 2009 or 2010. During 2008, the Corporation recorded a $90.0 million goodwill impairment charge. As of December 31, 2010, the Corporation had $535.5 million of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in additional impairment charges. The competition the Corporation faces is significant and may reduce the Corporation’s customer base and negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation. In addition, as a result of the deregulation of the financial industry, the Corporation also competes with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide. Some of the Corporation’s competitors, including certain super-regional and national bank holding companies that have made acquisitions in its market area, have greater resources than the Corporation has and, as such, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. 12 Table of Contents The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves while achieving its objectives. The heightened, industry-wide attention associated with the processing of residential mortgage foreclosures may adversely affect the Corporation’s business. In late 2010, the media began reporting on possible processing errors and documentation problems in mortgage foreclosures at several of the nation’s largest banks and mortgage servicing businesses. As a result of the economic downturn which began in 2008 and which persists today, larger banks and mortgage servicing companies have been challenged with processing tens of thousands of foreclosures nationwide. It has been reported that, in some foreclosures, the procedural steps (which often vary by state and in some cases by local jurisdictions within a state) required to complete a foreclosure have not been followed. As a result, there were questions concerning the validity of some foreclosures. The foreclosure procedures used by banks and servicing companies have also come under scrutiny by consumer advocates, attorneys representing borrowers, state Attorney Generals and banking regulators. As a financial institution, the Corporation offers a variety of residential mortgage loan products. A majority of the mortgage loans originated by the Corporation are made in the Corporation’s five-state market. The Corporation also services loans owned by investors in accordance with the investors’ guidelines. A small percentage of the Corporation’s residential mortgage borrowers default on their mortgage loans. When this occurs, the Corporation attempts to resolve the default in a way that provides the greatest return to the Corporation or is in accordance with investor guidelines; typically, options are pursued that allow the borrower to remain the owner of their home. However, when these efforts are not successful, it becomes necessary for the Corporation to foreclose on the loan. Unlike larger banks and mortgage servicers, however, the Corporation analyzes whether foreclosure is necessary on a case-by-case basis and the number of residential foreclosures undertaken by the Corporation is not substantial. The Corporation only initiated approximately 400 residential foreclosure actions during 2010 for residential loans the Corporation owned or serviced for investors. Although the number of foreclosures undertaken by the Corporation on residential mortgage loans in its portfolio or that the Corporation services for others is substantially less than those of larger banks and mortgage servicers, the Corporation has recently received inquiries from banking regulators, title insurance companies and others regarding its foreclosure procedures. As a result of these inquiries and the publicity surrounding the mortgage foreclosure area nationally, the Corporation has reviewed the requirements for foreclosures in each of the states where most of its foreclosures occur and its own foreclosure procedures. In addition, the Corporation has consulted with the law firms it uses to undertake foreclosures in each of the states in its primary markets and in other states where it has substantial mortgage lending activities regarding foreclosure procedures. The Corporation will continue to conduct such reviews and consultation. The Corporation does not expect any deficiencies that it has discovered, or which it might discover in the future, as a result of these reviews and consultations to have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the Corporation. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings. In response to the impact of economic conditions since 2008 on banks generally and on the FDIC deposit insurance fund, the FDIC changed its risk-based assessment system and increased base assessment rates. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. In February 2011, as required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a ruling pursuant to which the assessment base against which FDIC assessments for deposit insurance are made will change. Instead of FDIC insurance assessments being based upon an insured bank’s deposits, FDIC insurance assessments will generally be based on an insured bank’s total average assets minus average tangible equity. With this change, the Corporation expects that its overall FDIC insurance cost will decline. However, a change in the risk categories applicable to the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries, further adjustments to base assessment rates and any special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that the FDIC take steps necessary to increase the level of the Deposit Insurance Fund to 1.35% of total insured deposits by September 30, 2020. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a Restoration Plan to achieve that goal. Certain elements of the Restoration Plan are left to future FDIC rulemaking, as are the potential for increases to the assessment rates, which 13 Table of Contents may become necessary to achieve the targeted level of the DIF. Future FDIC rulemaking in this regard may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. The Corporation is a holding company and relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for substantially all of its revenue and its ability to make dividends, distributions and other payments. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries, and depends on the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries, principally its banking subsidiaries, for substantially all of its revenues. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal and state regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. There are various regulatory and prudential supervisory restrictions, which may change from time to time, that impact on the ability of its banking subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it. For additional information regarding the regulatory restrictions Corporation and its subsidiaries, see “Item 1 Business - Supervision and Regulation”. If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. Depending on the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries, the applicable regulatory authority might deem the Corporation to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice if its banking subsidiaries were to pay dividends. The Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks and bank holding companies only to pay dividends out of current operating earnings. In 2009, the FRB released a supervisory letter advising bank holding companies, among other things, that as a general matter a bank holding company should inform its Federal Reserve Bank and should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its dividends if (1) the bank holding company’s net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (2) the bank holding company’s prospective rate of earnings is not consistent with the bank holding company’s capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition, or (3) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Corporation’s shareholders. Provisions of Pennsylvania law and of the Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Corporation or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Corporation. The Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include certain provisions which may be considered to be “anti-takeover” in nature because they may have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult the acquisition of control over the Corporation by means of a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy contest or similar transaction. These provisions are intended to protect the Corporation’s shareholders by providing a measure of assurance that the Corporation’s shareholders will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited takeover bid and by preventing a successful takeover bidder from exercising its voting control to the detriment of the other shareholders. However, the anti-takeover provisions set forth in the Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, taken as a whole, may discourage a hostile tender offer, exchange offer, proxy solicitation or similar transaction relating to the Corporation’s common stock. To the extent that these provisions actually discourage such a transaction, holders of the Corporation’s common stock may not have an opportunity to dispose of part or all of their stock at a higher price than that prevailing in the market. In addition, some of these provisions make it more difficult to remove, and thereby may serve to entrench, the Corporation’s incumbent directors and officers, even if their removal would be regarded by some shareholders as desirable. The Corporation relies on its systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially affect its operations. The Corporation’s businesses are dependent on its ability to process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If any of its financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Corporation could be materially adversely affected. Third parties with which the Corporation does business could also be sources of operational risk to the Corporation, including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties’ own systems. Any of these occurrences could diminish the Corporation’s ability to operate one or more of the Corporation’s businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect the Corporation. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Corporation’s possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Corporation could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the 14 Table of Contents information, either by fault of the Corporation’s systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriate taken by third parties. The Corporation may be subject to disruptions of the Corporation’s operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the Corporation’s control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets or terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to the Corporation. The Corporation’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Corporation. The Corporation’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. The Corporation has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which the Corporation is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to the Corporation’s risk management strategies and there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that the Corporation has not appropriately anticipated or identified. If the Corporation’s risk management framework proves to be ineffective, the Corporation could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Negative publicity could damage the Corporation’s reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Corporation’s earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Corporation’s business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to keep and attract customers and expose it to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from the Corporation’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory, compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because the Corporation conducts the majority of its businesses under the “Fulton” brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect the Corporation’s other businesses. The Corporation may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. The Corporation maintains systems and procedures designed to ensure that it complies with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, the Corporation is subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage the Corporation’s reputation (see above) and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in the Corporation’s securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 