Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation’s common stock involves certain risks, including, among others, the risks described below. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s net income or loss. The Corporation is affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board (FRB), which regulates the national money supply in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. Among the techniques available to the FRB are engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. Net interest income is the most significant component of the Corporation’s net income, accounting for approximately 76% of total revenues in 2008. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect the Corporation’s net interest income and financial condition. Based on the current interest rate environment and the price sensitivity of customers, loan demand could continue to outpace the growth of core demand and savings accounts, resulting in compression of net interest margin. Finally, regional and local economic conditions as well as fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government, including those of the FRB, may affect prevailing interest rates. The Corporation cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. The severity and duration of the current recession and the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio could impact the level of loan charge-offs and the provision for loan losses and may affect the Corporation’s net income or loss. National and regional economic conditions could impact the loan portfolios of the Corporation’s subsidiary banks. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could further weaken 9 Table of Contents the economies of the communities the Corporation serves. Weakness in the market areas served by the Corporation’s subsidiary banks could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because: • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of these scenarios could require the Corporation to charge-off a higher percentage of its loans and/or increase its provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact its results of operations. In addition, the amount of the Corporation’s provision for loan losses and the percentage of loans it is required to charge-off may be impacted by the overall risk composition of the loan portfolio. During 2008, the Corporation’s provision for loan losses was $119.6 million. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2008 is sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio on that date, the Corporation may be required to increase its loan loss provision or charge-off a higher percentage of loans due to changes in the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, thereby negatively impacting its results of operations. A decrease in real estate values could cause higher loan losses and require higher loan loss provisions for loans that are secured by real estate. Price fluctuations in securities markets, as well as recent market events, such as a continuation of the disruption in credit and other markets and the abnormal functioning of markets for securities, could have an impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation’s equity investments consisted of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and Federal Reserve Bank stock ($85.3 million), common stocks of publicly traded financial institutions ($43.4 million), and money market mutual funds and other equity investments ($10.0 million). The value of the securities in the Corporation’s equity portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including factors that impact the performance of the U.S. securities market in general and, due to the concentration in stocks of financial institutions in the Corporation’s equity portfolio, specific risks associated with that sector. Historically, gains on sales of stocks of other financial institutions have been a recurring component of the Corporation’s earnings. However, general economic conditions and uncertainty surrounding the financial institution sector as a whole has impacted the value of these securities over the past two years. Further declines in bank stock values could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. During 2008, $43.1 million of impairment charges were recorded for stocks of financial institutions. As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation has $119.9 million of corporate debt securities issued by financial institutions whose values declined significantly during 2008. As with stocks of financial institutions, continued declines in the values of these securities, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment charges. During 2008, $20.7 million of impairment charges were recorded for debt securities issued by financial institutions. The Corporation’s investment management and trust services income could also be impacted by fluctuations in the securities market. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. securities markets in general, or otherwise, the Corporation’s revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers’ level of confidence in the outlook for rising securities prices. During 2008, developments in the market for student loan auction rate securities (also known as “auction rate certificates” or “ARCs”) resulted in the Corporation recording charges of $19.8 million. The Corporation’s investment management and trust subsidiary, Fulton Financial Advisors, N.A. (FFA), holds ARCs for some of its customers’ accounts. ARCs are one of several types of securities that were previously utilized by FFA as short-term investment vehicles for its customers. ARCs are long-term securities structured to allow their sale in periodic auctions, resulting in the treatment of ARCs as short-term instruments in normal market conditions. However, in mid-February, 2008, market auctions for ARCs began to fail due to an insufficient number of buyers; these market failures were the first widespread and continuing failures in the over 20-year history of the auction rate securities markets. As a result, although the credit quality of ARCs has not been impacted, ARCs are currently not liquid investments for their holders, including FFA’s customers. It is unclear when liquidity will return to this market. 10 Table of Contents FFA has agreed to purchase ARCs from customer accounts upon notification from customers that they have liquidity needs or otherwise desire to liquidate their holdings. Specifically, FFA will generally purchase customer ARCs at par value with an interest adjustment, which would position customers as if they had owned 90-day U.S. Treasury bills instead of ARCs. Management believes that the financial guarantee liability recorded as of December 31, 2008 is adequate. Future purchases of ARCs, changes in their estimated fair value or changes in the likelihood of their purchase could require the Corporation to make adjustments to the amount of the liability and have a material impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. If the goodwill that the Corporation has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s results of operations. The Corporation has historically supplemented its internal growth with strategic acquisitions of banks, branches and other financial services companies. Applicable accounting standards require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. During 2008, the Corporation recorded a $90.0 million goodwill impairment charge for one of its defined reporting units. As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation had $534.4 million of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs. Despite the current year’s impairment charge, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in additional findings of impairment. Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect the Corporation’s business and results of operations. The Corporation does not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. The Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. The volatility and disruption in these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury (UST) was authorized to, among other things, deploy up to $750 billion into the financial system. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) into law. The Federal Government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such actions, although intended to aid the financial markets, and continued volatility in the markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Recently, concerns over the availability and cost of credit and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets going forward. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence, have precipitated an economic slowdown and induced fears of a prolonged recession. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have a continued adverse effect on the Corporation. Included among the potential adverse effects of the current economic downturn on the Corporation are the following: • A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting the Corporation’s geographic market areas, could reduce the Corporation’s customer base level of deposits and demand for financial products, such as loans. The Corporation’s success depends significantly upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in its geographic markets. Unlike many larger institutions, the Corporation is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which the Corporation operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, its business could be adversely affected. • Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject the Corporation to additional regulation. As discussed above, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to regulations and examinations by various regulatory authorities. In addition, as a result of its participation in the UST’s Capital Purchase Program (CPP), the Corporation is subject to certain restrictions associated with participation in the CPP. 11 Table of Contents As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new Federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which may result in the issuance of formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact the Corporation’s operations, including its ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact its financial performance. • The Corporation’s future growth and liquidity needs may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available at an excessive cost. The Corporation is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. In October 2008, the UST announced plans to direct $250 billion of its authority under EESA into preferred stock investments in banks under the CPP. In November 2008, the Corporation voluntarily applied to the UST to participate in the CPP and the application was approved. As a result, on December 23, 2008, the Corporation issued $376.5 million of preferred stock, as well as warrants to purchase 5.5 million shares of the Corporation’s common stock, to the UST. The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. The Corporation may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth or to redeem the preferred stock issued under the CPP. The Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation’s control. Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted. In addition, if the Corporation decides to raise additional equity capital, shareholders’ interests could be diluted. In addition to primary sources of liquidity in the form of principal and interest payments on outstanding loans and investments and deposits, the Corporation maintains secondary sources that provide it with additional liquidity. These secondary sources include secured and unsecured borrowings from sources such as the Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB and third-party commercial banks. The Corporation’s strong liquidity position was further enhanced by its participation in the CPP and it believes that it is well positioned to withstand current market conditions. However, market liquidity conditions have been negatively impacted by the recent disruptions in the capital markets and could, in the future, have a negative impact on secondary sources of liquidity. The competition the Corporation faces is significant and may reduce the Corporation’s customer base and negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations. There is significant competition among commercial banks in the market areas served by the Corporation’s subsidiary banks. In addition, as a result of the deregulation of the financial industry, the Corporation’s subsidiary banks also compete with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Corporation is with respect to the products and services they provide. Some of the Corporation’s competitors, including certain super-regional and national bank holding companies that have made acquisitions in its market area, have greater resources than the Corporation has and, as such, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services not offered by the Corporation. The Corporation also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside its market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Competition may adversely affect the rates the Corporation pays on deposits and charges on loans, thereby potentially adversely affecting the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in the market areas it serves while achieving its objectives. The supervision and regulation to which the Corporation is subject can be a competitive disadvantage. The Corporation is a registered financial holding company, and its subsidiary banks are depository institutions whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). As a result, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to 12 Table of Contents regulations and examinations by various regulatory authorities. In general, statutes establish: the eligible business activities for the Corporation; certain acquisition and merger restrictions; limitations on intercompany transactions such as loans and dividends; capital adequacy requirements; requirements for anti-money laundering programs and other compliance matters, among other regulations. The Corporation is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Compliance with these statutes and regulations is important to the Corporation’s ability to engage in new activities and to consummate additional acquisitions. In addition, the Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles and governmental economic and monetary policies. The Corporation cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect it. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions, as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the Corporation’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. While these statutes and regulations are generally designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and the FDIC insurance funds, they do not eliminate risk, and compliance with such statutes and regulations increases the Corporation’s expense, requires management’s attention and can be a disadvantage from a competitive standpoint with respect to non-regulated competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 