Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks associated with our business Our businesses may be adversely impacted by government regulations. We derive approximately 13% of our revenues from Medicaid reimbursed programs. Government legislative initiatives, if enacted, could impose pressures on the pricing structures applicable to our PERS. Our revenue, operating margin and profitability could be adversely affected by new laws and or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and/or regulations, or reductions in funding or imposition of additional limits on reimbursements. In addition, as a provider of services under Medicaid programs, we are subject to the federal fraud and abuse and the so-called “Stark” anti-referral laws, violations of which may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicaid programs. Also, several states have enacted their own statutory analogs of the federal fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws. While we at all times attempt to comply with the applicable federal and state fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws, there can be no assurance that administrative or judicial interpretations of existing statutes or regulations or enactments of new laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. The Company’s PERS and related equipment are subject to approvals under the rules of the Federal Communications Commission. In November 2004, the Company received an inquiry from the Federal Communications Commission. In response to that inquiry the Company has determined that certain versions of its PERS equipment emit levels of radio frequency energy that exceed applicable standards designed to reduce the possibility of interference with radio communications. Although this issue poses no safety or functionality risk to subscribers, the Company established a corrective action plan with the FCC to satisfy this matter. 15 In July 2006, the Company reached an agreement with the FCC on an action plan and timeframe to complete an upgrade program for the affected PERS equipment and agreed upon a voluntary payment of $75,000 to be paid in regards to this matter. At December 31, 2005, the Company had accrued such amount. As part of this agreement, the FCC will allow the upgrade program to run substantially parallel with the normal recycling of the Company’s PERS equipment and, as such, the only additional cost to be incurred will be the incremental cost to bring the units into compliance with the FCC regulations. Through December 31, 2006, the Company has expensed approximately $1,085,000 in connection with this matter, of which approximately $176,000, primarily relating to costs associated with the replacement of equipment, legal fees and other professional fees, was recorded in 2006. Technological changes may negatively affect our business. The telecommunications industry, on which our business is dependent, is subject to significant changes in technology. These technological changes, including changes relating to emerging wireline and wireless transmission technologies, may require us to make changes in the technology we use in our products in order to remain competitive. This may require significant outlays of capital and personnel, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the short term. Our business may be adversely impacted by our expansion into the Home Care/Disease Management monitoring service business. Our expansion into Home Care/Disease Management monitoring service represents a significant commitment of management time and funds. While we are committed to executing this expansion, and we believe that these activities should result in improved earnings and greater market share, there can be no assurances that this in fact will happen. If we are unsuccessful in selling the products and services in this new business endeavor, the Company will not receive its anticipated return on investment relating to this business. Product Liability and Availability of Insurance. Because our business involves responding to personal emergencies, failures of our products or errors in the delivery of our services carry a risk of liability claims. We manage this risk through contractual limits on liability and damages, and by carrying insurance. However, the contractual limits may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions or circumstances. While historically we have not incurred significant liabilities due to such claims, a successful claim may be made for damages which exceed the coverage under any insurance policy. In the future, our insurance costs may become more expensive, and there can be no assurance that additional insurance will be available on acceptable terms. If one or more of these occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. 16 We rely on the contract with New York City for a significant portion of our business. Since 1983, the Company has provided Personal Emergency Response Systems ("PERS") services to the City of New York's Human Resources Administration Home Care Service Program ("HCSP"). The Company has been operating since 1993 with a contract to provide HCSP with these services, which has been extended for 1-2 year periods since 1993, the last such extension through December 31, 2006. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company's revenues from this contract represented 8% and 12%, respectively, of its total revenue. In November 2002, a new Request for Proposals (“RFP”) was issued by HRA to provide emergency response services to HCSP from April 1, 2004 through March 31, 2007. After receiving notification from the City of New York’s Human Resources Administration (“HRA”) that the Company was selected as the approved vendor under the RFP to provide PERS services to the Home Care Services Program to Medicaid Eligible individuals, the Company subsequently received notification from HRA that it canceled the RFP “in the best interest of the City of New York.” The Company was advised that the cancellation of the RFP is not related to any performance issue or negative reflection upon the Company. Concurrently, the Company was advised of HRA’s decision to issue a new contract extension to the Company through June 2005 under the terms of the contract that the Company has been operating under since 1993. The Company has since received this contract extension and also has received subsequent extensions which go through December 31, 2006. In accordance with the original contract and consistent with previous extensions, HRA has the right to terminate the contract without cause or “in the best interest of the City of New York” upon thirty days written notice. HRA has also advised the Company that HRA plans to issue a new RFP with respect to PERS services in the future. In September 2006, HRA issued a bid proposal relating to the providing of PERS services. No decision has been rendered by HRA as of March 20, 2007. The Company cannot determine (i) how long the current contract terms will remain in effect or (ii) whether AMAC will be the successful bidder on the bid process and if so, under what terms and conditions. While the Company has greatly reduced its dependence on revenue from HCSP, if subsequent to December 2006, the Company does not maintain this contract, approximately 8% of the Company’s revenue could be lost, albeit over a protracted period, which could have a material adverse effect on operating results and cash flows. The Company continues to implement a variety of operational efficiencies, as well as continuing to enhance and diversify its other revenue streams, to offset the impact, if any, of this occurrence. 17 There are no other contracts that represent greater than 6% of the Company’s gross revenue. Risks associated with our securities We do not anticipate the payment of dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain all available funds for use in the operation of our business. Thus, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Shares that are eligible for sale in the future may affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 20, 2007, an aggregate of 2,468,602 of the outstanding shares of our common stock are “restricted securities” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the federal securities laws. These restricted shares may be sold pursuant only to an effective registration statement under the securities laws or in compliance with the exemption provisions of Rule 144 or other securities law provisions. Rule 144 permits sales of restricted securities by any person (whether or not an affiliate) after one year, at which time sales can be made subject to the Rule’s existing volume and other limitations. Rule 144 also permits sales of restricted securities by non-affiliates without adhering to Rule 144’s existing volume or other limitations after two years. In general, an “affiliate” is a person that directly; or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with us. The SEC has stated that generally, executive officers and directors of an entity are deemed affiliates of the entity. In addition, 1,052,818 shares are issuable pursuant to currently exercisable options, and 10,000 shares are issuable pursuant to currently exercisable warrants, further adding to the number of outstanding shares. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively affect the price of our common stock Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 