Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks associated with our business Our business may be adversely impacted by new government regulations or changes to current government regulations. We derive approximately 12% of our revenues from Medicaid reimbursed programs. Government legislative initiatives, if enacted, could impose pressures on the pricing structures applicable to our PERS. Our revenue, operating margin and profitability could be adversely affected by new laws and/or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and/or regulations, or reductions in funding or imposition of additional limits on reimbursements. 15 In addition, as a provider of services under Medicaid reimbursed programs, we are subject to the federal fraud and abuse and the so-called “Stark” anti-referral laws, violations of which may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicaid programs. Also, several states have enacted their own statutory analogs of the federal fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws. While we at all times attempt to comply with the applicable federal and state fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws, there can be no assurance that administrative or judicial interpretations of existing statutes or regulations or enactments of new laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Technological changes may negatively affect our business. The telecommunications industry, on which our business is dependent, is subject to significant changes in technology. These technological changes, including changes relating to emerging wireline and wireless transmission technologies, may require us to make changes in the technology we use in our products in order to remain competitive. This may require significant outlays of capital and use of personnel, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the short term. Our business may be adversely impacted by our investment in the licensing of new remote monitoring products. The Company has paid approximately $815,000 in licensing fees in connection with the Company obtaining certain new remote monitoring products. While the Company is confident in the successful completion and sale of these new remote monitoring products, the completion of these products has been delayed. Since the Company has capitalized the licensing costs, if the Company’s obtaining of the products is unsuccessful or the Company cannot market or sell the products, the Company would be required to write down all or some of the value of the license. Product liability and availability of insurance. Because our business involves responding to personal emergencies, failures of our products or errors in the delivery of our services carry a risk of liability claims. We manage this risk through contractual limits on liability and damages, and by carrying insurance. However, the contractual limits may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions or under all circumstances. While historically we have not incurred significant liabilities due to such claims, a successful claim may be made for damages which exceed the coverage under any insurance policy. In the future, our insurance may become more expensive, and there can be no assurance that additional insurance will be available on acceptable terms. If one or more of these occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the contract with New York City for a significant portion of our business. Since 1983, the Company has provided PERS services to the City of New York’s Human Resources Administration Home Care Service program (“HCSP”). The Company has been operating since 1993 with a contract and related extension to provide HCSP with these services. 16 In September 2006, Human Resource Administration (“HRA”) issued a bid proposal relating to the providing of the PERS services which are the subject of the Company’s contract with HCSP. In October 2007, the Company was informed it was awarded the contract with respect to this proposal and executed such contract. The contract term is two years, commencing September 21, 2007, with two options to renew in favor of HRA for two additional two year terms. Under the terms of the agreement, a downward rate adjustment was made in conjunction with reduced equipment requirements from previous years. The estimated impact of this lower rate is to reduce this contract’s contribution to gross revenues by approximately $270,000 and its contribution to net income by approximately $150,000 on an annual basis. During the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company’s revenue from this contract represented 7% and 8%, respectively, of the Company’s gross revenue. The Company was notified that one of the bidders has filed an Article 78 proceeding seeking a reversal of HRA's determination that AMAC was the lowest qualified bidder. HRA and AMAC are defending the proceeding. AMAC management believes the claim to be without merit. There are no other contracts that represent greater than 6% of the Company’s gross revenue. Risks associated with our securities We do not anticipate the payment of dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will reinvest all available funds in the operation of our business. Thus, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Shares that are eligible for sale in the future may affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 20, 2008, an aggregate of 2,700,327 of the outstanding shares of our common stock are “restricted securities,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the federal securities laws. These restricted securities may be sold only pursuant to an effective registration statement under the securities laws or in compliance with the exemption provisions of Rule 144 or other securities laws provisions. Rule 144 permits the sale of restricted securities by any person (whether or not an affiliate of the Company) after six months, at which time the sales by affiliates can be made subject to Rule 144’s volume and other limitations and the sales by non-affiliates can be made without regard to Rule 144’s volume and other limitations, other than the limitation regarding public information set forth in Rule 144(c) for an additional six months. In general, an “affiliate” is a person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with the Company. The SEC has stated that generally, executive officers and directors of an entity are deemed affiliates of the entity. In addition, 922,273 shares are issuable pursuant to currently exercisable options which, upon exercise, would further add to the number of outstanding shares of common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively affect the price of our common stock. 17 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 