Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Variations in interest rates may negatively affect National Penn’s financial performance. Changes in interest rates may reduce profits. The primary source of income for National Penn is the differential, or the net interest spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to repay their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect National Penn’s net interest spread, loan origination volume, asset quality and overall profitability. Capital market conditions may affect National Penn’s liquidity and market value of assets. Ratings agencies have recently downgraded the ratings of various municipal bond insurers. These downgrades reflect the perceived reduced ability of the bond insurers to fulfill their guarantee obligations for the bonds they insure, as perceived by the ratings agencies. The market value of municipal bonds in National Penn’s investment portfolio may be affected by the downgrades of the credit ratings of these bond insurers, notwithstanding the underlying performance of the issuers of the bonds themselves. This could result in changes in asset values that could reduce National Penn’s profits or liquidity. In a similar vein, conditions in the capital markets have been affected by the turmoil in sub-prime debt. There has been a spillover effect of this turmoil into other asset classes, notwithstanding the underlying performance of those asset classes. The market value of National Penn’s investments may be affected by these conditions, resulting in changes in asset values that could reduce National Penn’s profits or liquidity. National Penn may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of recent transactions. National Penn’s success depends on, among other things, National Penn’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements from the Christiana and KNBT mergers and to combine the businesses of National Penn, Christiana and KNBT in a manner that permits growth without materially disrupting existing customer relationships or resulting in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If National Penn is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Christiana and KNBT acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Until the completion of the respective acquisitions, National Penn, Christiana and KNBT operated as independent entities. The integration process now underway includes the relocation or reorganization of systems, personnel, business units and operations, as well as systems conversion and integration, and will continue throughout 2008, with success dependent, at least in part, on the efforts of key employees and third party vendors. If not successfully managed, the integration effort could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of National Penn’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect National Penn’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Christiana and KNBT acquisitions. Governmental regulation and legislation could limit National Penn’s future growth. National Penn and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of the operations of National Penn and its subsidiaries. These laws, which are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the government’s deposit insurance funds, may change from time to time. National Penn cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or in their interpretations would have on National Penn. Any such changes may negatively affect National Penn’s ability to expand its products and services and to increase the value of its business and, as a result, could be materially adverse to National Penn’s shareholders. 19 National Penn’s ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to regulatory limits. National Penn is a bank holding company. Its operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of National Penn’s assets are held by its direct and indirect subsidiaries. National Penn’s ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Its principal bank subsidiary, National Penn Bank, which includes National Penn Bank’s FirstService Bank, HomeTowne Heritage Bank, Nittany Bank, and KNBT Bank divisions, is National Penn’s primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from National Penn Bank and Christiana are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by bank regulatory agencies. The ability of National Penn Bank and Christiana to pay dividends is also subject to profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. At December 31, 2007, approximately $56.2 million was available without the need for regulatory approval for the payment of dividends to National Penn from National Penn Bank. There is no assurance that National Penn Bank, Christiana and/or National Penn’s other subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that National Penn will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders in the future. National Penn’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. National Penn’s future acquisitions could dilute ownership of National Penn and may cause National Penn to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. National Penn has used its common stock to acquire other companies in the past and intends to acquire or make investments in banks and other complementary businesses with its common stock in the future. National Penn may issue additional shares of common stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute the ownership interest of National Penn’s shareholders upon closing. Future business acquisitions could be material to National Penn, and any failure to integrate these businesses into National Penn could have a material adverse effect on the value of National Penn common stock. In addition, any such acquisition could require National Penn to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, National Penn could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect National Penn’s profitability. National Penn’s subsidiaries face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of National Penn’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. Some of National Penn’s competitors are extremely aggressive in loan pricing and structures they offer in their efforts to build market share. This competition could reduce National Penn’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that National Penn’s subsidiaries originate and the interest rates they may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, National Penn’s subsidiaries face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of National Penn’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than National Penn, which could decrease the deposits that National Penn attracts or require National Penn to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect National Penn’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, National Penn may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase National Penn’s cost of funds. National Penn’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of National Penn’s non-bank competitors are subject to less extensive regulations than those governing National Penn’s banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over National Penn’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing financial products and services. This competition may reduce or limit National Penn’s margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce its market share and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. 20 National Penn’s subsidiaries face intense competition with various other financial institutions for the attraction and retention of key personnel, specifically those who generate and maintain National Penn’s customer relationships. These competitors may offer greater compensation and other benefits, which could result in the loss of potential and/or existing key personnel, including the loss of potential and/or existing substantial customer relationships. A Warning About Forward-Looking Information This annual report, including information incorporated by reference in this annual report, contains forward-looking statements about National Penn and its subsidiaries. In addition, from time to time, National Penn or its representatives may make written or oral forward-looking statements about National Penn and its subsidiaries. These forward-looking statements are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should,'' "project," "plan,'' "seek," "intend,'' or "anticipate'' or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements include discussions of strategy, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives, expectations or consequences of various transactions, and statements about the future performance, operations, products and services of National Penn and its subsidiaries. National Penn’s businesses and operations, including the newly-acquired businesses and operations of Christiana and KNBT, are and will be subject to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors. Consequently, actual results and experience may materially differ from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and experience to differ from those projected include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth above, as well as the following: • National Penn’s branding and marketing initiatives may not be effective in building name recognition and customer awareness of National Penn’s products and services. In particular, the continued use of non-National Penn brands may be counterproductive to National Penn’s overall branding and marketing strategy. • National Penn may be unable to differentiate itself from its competitors by a higher level of customer service, as intended by its business strategy and other marketing initiatives. • Expansion of National Penn’s product and service offerings may take longer, and may meet with more effective competitive resistance from others already offering such products and services, than expected. • New product development by new and existing competitors may be more effective, and take place more quickly, than expected. • Geographic expansion may be more difficult, take longer, and present more operational and management risks and challenges, than expected. • Business development in newly entered geographic areas, including those entered by mergers and acquisitions such as the Christiana and KNBT acquisitions, may be more difficult, and take longer, than expected. • National Penn may be less effective in cross-selling its various products and services, and in utilizing web-based and other alternative delivery systems, than expected. • Projected business increases following completed transactions, new product development, geographic expansion, and productivity and investment initiatives, may be lower than expected, and recovery of associated costs may take longer than expected. • National Penn may be unable to attract and/or retain key executives and other key personnel due to intense competition for such persons or otherwise. • Growth and profitability of National Penn’s non-interest income or fee income may be less than expected. • General economic or business conditions, either nationally or in the regions in which National Penn does business, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, a reduced demand for credit, or a decision by National Penn to reevaluate staffing levels or to divest one or more lines of business. 21 • Expected synergies and cost savings from mergers and acquisitions, including the Christiana and KNBT acquisitions, may not be fully realized or realized as quickly as expected. • Revenues and loan growth following mergers and acquisitions, including the Christiana and KNBT acquisitions, may be less than expected. • Loan losses, deposit attrition, operating costs, customer and key employee losses, and business disruption following mergers and acquisitions, including the Christiana and KNBT acquisitions, may be greater than expected. • Business opportunities and strategies potentially available to National Penn after mergers and acquisitions, including the Christiana and KNBT acquisitions, may not be successfully or fully acted upon. • Costs, difficulties or delays related to the integration of businesses or systems of acquired companies, including Christiana, KNBTand their respective subsidiaries, with National Penn’s business or systems may be greater than expected. • Technological changes, including systems conversions and integration, may be more difficult to make or more expensive than expected or present unanticipated operational issues. • Maintaining information security, and dealing with any breach of information security, may be more difficult and expensive than expected and may present operational or reputation risks. • Legislation or regulatory changes, including without limitation, changes in laws or regulations on competition, industry consolidation, development of competing financial products and services, changes in accounting rules and practices, changes in or additional customer privacy and data protection requirements, and intensified regulatory scrutiny of National Penn and the financial services industry in general, may adversely affect National Penn’s costs and business. • Market volatility may continue in the securities markets, with an adverse effect on National Penn’s securities and asset management activities. • In the current environment of increased investor activism, including hedge fund investment policies and practices, shareholder concerns or actions due to stock price changes of financial service companies, may require increased management/board attention, efforts and commitments, deferring or decreasing the focus on business development and operations. • A downward movement in real estate values could adversely affect National Penn’s asset quality and earnings. • Repurchase obligations with respect to real estate mortgages sold in the secondary market could adversely affect National Penn’s earnings. • Changes in consumer spending and savings habits could adversely affect National Penn’s business. • Negative publicity with respect to any National Penn product or service, whether legally justified or not, could adversely affect National Penn’s reputation and business. • Various domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts may have a negative impact on National Penn’s business as well as the foregoing and other risks. • National Penn may be unable to successfully manage the foregoing and other risks and to achieve its current short-term and long-term business plans and objectives. Because forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. National Penn cautions shareholder and other readers not to place undue reliance on such statements. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to National Penn or any person acting on its behalf made after the date of this annual report are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risk factors and cautionary statements contained in this annual report. National Penn does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this annual report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 22 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 