Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks associated with our business We have invested $4 million in Lifecomm, a limited liability company formed for the purpose of developing a mobile PERS solution. The failure of Lifecomm to successfully develop the mobile PERS solution at all, or in a timely and cost-effective manner, or the unwillingness of customers to accept it could adversely affect the value of this investment. In addition, we entered into this investment in part to secure an adaptive technology due to technological changes in the PERS market and there is no assurance that this decision will result in this goal being achieved. 16 We have invested $4 million in Lifecomm, a limited liability company formed for the purpose of developing a mobile PERS solution. The success of this initiative will be dependent upon, among other things: · the ability of Lifecomm to successfully develop the technology to support the mobile PERS solution; · the ability of Lifecomm to develop and commercialize the mobile PERS solution in a cost-effective and timely manner: · consumer interest in and acceptance of Lifecomm’s mobile PERS solution; · changes in the competitive or regulatory environment in which Lifecomm operates; and · risks associated with prosecuting or defending allegations or claims of infringement of intellectual property rights. If a sufficient market does not emerge for the Lifecomm’s products and services, or we are not successful in marketing such products and services, our growth could be adversely affected and our investment in Lifecomm may be lost. In addition, if the Company’s decision to invest in cellular technology as the likely adaptive technology to replace POTS (plain old telephone systems) technology proves to be incorrect, other adaptive technologies may emerge which the Company has not focused on and the Company would be at a competitive disadvantage as a result of its focus on cellular technology. Finally, Lifecomm’s parent and controlling financial interest holder has determined that Lifecomm is a variable interest entity and that such parent entity is the primary beneficiary. If such parent entity is unable to provide the financial and operating support that it is obligated to provide under the Lifecomm agreement, Lifecomm and the successful development of the next generation mobile PERS would likely be negatively impacted. To date, such parent entity has incurred recurring losses and have a net capital deficiency. 17 Our acquisition strategy exposes us to risk, including with respect to our ability to integrate the businesses, products or services that we acquire. We expect to grow our business, in part, by acquiring companies that are compatible with our current principal business lines. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully: · identify suitable acquisition candidates; · negotiate identified acquisitions on terms acceptable to us; or · integrate acquisitions that we complete. We may encounter competition for acquisitions, which could result in acquisition prices we do not consider acceptable. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. The success of acquisitions we complete will be dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate the acquired businesses, products and services, including by realizing potentially available marketing opportunities and cost savings and operating the combined business profitably. In addition, successful integration may involve operational changes and significant expense. We cannot be certain: · that we will be successful in integrating an acquired business, product or service into our existing business systems or product and service mix, or in integrating an acquired product or service’s distribution channels with our own; · as to the timing or number of marketing opportunities or amount of cost savings that may be realized as the result of our integration of an acquired business, product or service; · that an acquisition will enhance our competitive position and business prospects; or · that we will not experience difficulties with customers, personnel or other parties as a result of an acquisition. Finally, in order to finance any acquisition, we may need to borrow money under our existing facilities or use our cash reserves. Use of our cash reserves and/or leveraging ourselves for acquisitions could limit our financial flexibility in the future. 18 If we lose key government customers, or if our key government customers, all of which provide our products and services under Medicaid reimbursed programs, require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, as a result of budgetary constraints or other reasons, our operating results would likely be negatively impacted. During each of 2009 and 2010, 11% of our revenue was derived from PERS services contracts with government customers for Medicaid reimbursed programs. Some of these agencies have been experiencing budget cuts and implementing cost cutting measures, which may cause them to demand price reductions or, alternatively, result in nonrenewal of existing contracts upon expiration if price reductions are not implemented. In addition, if government payors, such as Medicaid, deny or change coverage, reduce their current levels of reimbursement for healthcare services, or otherwise implement measures to regulate pricing or contain costs or if our costs increase more rapidly than reimbursement level or permissible pricing increases or we do not satisfy the standards or requirements for reimbursement, our revenues, operating margin or profitability may suffer and our business, performance, value, prospects, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. If we lose key government customers, or if our key government customers require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, as a result of the foregoing or other reasons, our operating results would likely be harmed. Changes in the general economic environment may impact our future business and results of operations. While there seem to be indications of the beginning of a recovery process, current economic conditions, including the credit crisis affecting global financial markets and the possibility of a global recession, could adversely impact the Company’s future business and financial results. These conditions could result in reduced demand for some of the Company’s products, increased order cancellations and returns, increased pressure on the prices of the Company’s products, increased number of days to collect outstanding receivables and/or increased bad debts on outstanding receivables, and greater difficulty in obtaining necessary financing on favorable terms. Over the last two years as a result of the housing and credit crisis, the Company realized a decline in its sale of PERS products to senior living facilities. Additionally, as a result of these economic conditions, the Company has experienced the impact of the reduction and termination of funding being provided to our customers in a State program. Our business may be adversely impacted by new government regulations or changes to current government regulations. As a provider of services under Medicaid reimbursed programs, we are subject to the federal fraud and abuse and the so-called “Stark” anti-referral laws, violations of which may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicaid programs. Also, several states have enacted their own statutory analogs of the federal fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws. While we at all times attempt to comply with the applicable federal and state fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws, there can be no assurance that administrative or judicial interpretations of existing statutes or regulations or enactments of new laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. See also the risk factor above entitled “If we lose key government customers, or if our key government customers, all of which provide our products and services under Medicaid reimbursed programs, require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, as a result of budgetary constraints or other reasons, our operating results would likely be negatively impacted.” 19 In March 2010, Congress approved, and the President signed into law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively the “Healthcare Reform Acts”). Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Acts seek to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million uninsured Americans. Many of the significant changes in the health care industry resulting from the enactment of the Healthcare Reform Acts do not take effect until 2014, including a requirement that most Americans carry health insurance. We expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the Healthcare Reform Acts could affect us adversely. The Healthcare Reform Acts contain many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid. We could be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in the delivery or pricing of or reimbursement for medical devices. Various health care reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any, of those proposals will be enacted. However, the ultimate effect of health care reform legislation or any future legislation or regulation could have a material adverse affect on our business, performance, value, prospects, financial condition, or results of operation. If we fail to successfully manage our new product initiatives, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such initiatives, our business may suffer. The success of our new product initiatives, including MedSmart™, TeleSmart™ and the mobile PERS device being developed by Lifecomm, as described above, depends on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products, such as: · difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; · customer interest and acceptance; · effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and · quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product initiatives that were not anticipated in the design of those products. Our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with our new product initiatives. 20 In addition, we are investing considerable financial and other resources to introduce new products and product enhancements, in particular, marketing and advertising related expenses with respect to MedSmart that our customers may not ultimately adopt. If our customers do not adopt these new products or product enhancements due to a preference for alternative products or for other reasons, we would not recoup any return on our investments in these products, which may result in charges to our consolidated income statements and harm the future growth of our business. The earthquake and tsunami in Japan may affect our supply. As a result of the recent earthquake and tsunami as well as their aftermath in Japan, the lead time for certain components of our devices may increase. Although the Company currently has significant supply on hand, the Company may experience shortages if delays in receiving orders continue and become more severe. Product liability and availability of insurance. Because our business involves responding to personal emergencies, failures of our products or errors in the delivery of our services carry a risk of liability claims. We manage this risk through contractual limits on liability and damages, and by carrying insurance. However, the contractual limits may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions or under all circumstances. While historically we have not incurred significant liabilities due to such claims, a successful claim may be made for damages which exceed the coverage under any insurance policy. In the future, our insurance may become more expensive, and there can be no assurance that additional insurance will be available on acceptable terms. If one or more of these occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with our securities We have not established a recurring dividend program. In December 2009 and again in July 2010, the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per common share, which was paid to shareholders in January 2010 and September 2010, respectively. During the 2008 fiscal year, the Company did not pay dividends on its common shares. The Company’s current intention is to utilize cash resources for operations and acquisitions and it is therefore unlikely that the Company will pay dividends in the near and medium term. Shares that are eligible for sale in the future may affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 25, 2011, an aggregate of 2,482,886 of the outstanding shares of our common stock are “restricted securities,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the federal securities laws. These restricted securities may be sold only pursuant to an effective registration statement under the securities laws or in compliance with the exemption provisions of Rule 144 or other securities laws provisions. Rule 144 permits the sale of restricted securities by any person (whether or not an affiliate of the Company) after six months, at which time the sales by affiliates can be made subject to Rule 144’s volume and other limitations and the sales by non-affiliates can be made without regard to Rule 144’s volume and other limitations, other than the limitation regarding public information set forth in Rule 144(c) for an additional six months. In general, an “affiliate” is a person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with the Company. The SEC has stated that generally, executive officers and directors of an entity are deemed affiliates of the entity. In addition, as of March 25, 2011, 738,343 shares are issuable pursuant to currently exercisable options or warrants which, upon exercise, would further add to the number of outstanding shares of common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively affect the price of our common stock. 21 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 