Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. National Penn’s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. The primary source of income for National Penn is the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect National Penn’s net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit National Penn’s future growth. National Penn and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of the operations of National Penn and its subsidiaries. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the governments deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws may negatively affect National Penn’s ability to expand its services and to increase the value of its business. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on National Penn, these changes could be materially adverse to National Penn’s shareholders. 21 National Penn’s ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from its national bank subsidiary, which are subject to regulatory limits. National Penn is a bank holding company and its operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of National Penn’s assets are held by its direct and indirect subsidiaries. National Penn’s ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Its national bank subsidiary, National Penn Bank, including National Penn Bank’s divisions, the FirstService Bank, HomeTowne Heritage Bank and The Peoples Bank of Oxford Divisions, is National Penn’s primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from National Penn Bank are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by bank regulatory agencies. The ability of National Penn Bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. At December 31, 2005, approximately $54,498,000 was available without the need for regulatory approval for the payment of dividends to National Penn from National Penn Bank. There is no assurance that National Penn Bank and/or National Penn’s other subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that National Penn will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. National Penn’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. National Penn’s future acquisitions could dilute ownership of National Penn and may cause National Penn to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. National Penn has used its common stock to acquire other companies in the past and intends to acquire or make investments in banks and other complementary businesses with its common stock in the future. National Penn may issue additional shares of common stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute the ownership interest of present shareholders in National Penn. Future business acquisitions could be material to National Penn, and any failure to integrate these businesses into National Penn could have a material adverse effect on the value of National Penn common stock. In addition, any such acquisition could require National Penn to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, National Penn could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect National Penn’s profitability. National Penn’s subsidiaries face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of National Penn’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce National Penn’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that National Penn’s subsidiaries originate and the interest rates they may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, National Penn’s subsidiaries face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of National Penn’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than National Penn, which could decrease the deposits that National Penn attracts or require National Penn to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect National Penn’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, National Penn may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase National Penn’s cost of funds. National Penn’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of National Penn’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern its banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over National Penn’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit National Penn’s margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce its market share and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. 22 A Warning About Forward-Looking Information This Annual Report, including information incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, contains forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of National Penn and its subsidiaries. In addition, from time to time, National Penn or its representatives may make written or oral forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should,'' "project," "plan,'' "seek," "intend,'' or "anticipate'' or the negative thereof or comparable terminology, and include discussions of strategy, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives, expectations or consequences of the transactions, and statements about the future performance, operations, products and services of the companies and its subsidiaries. National Penn’s businesses and operations, including those acquired on January 26, 2006 in the acquisition of Nittany and its subsidiaries (see “Recent Developments” herein), are and will be subject to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors. Consequently, their actual results and experience may materially differ from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and experience to differ from those projected include, but are not limited to, the following: • Reputational risk created by the loan fraud incurred by National Penn in 2004 may have an adverse impact on business generation and retention, funding, liquidity and National Penn’s stock price. • National Penn’s unified branding campaign and other marketing initiatives may be less effective than expected in building name recognition and greater customer awareness of National Penn’s products and services. Use of non-National Penn brands may be counter-productive. • National Penn may be unable to differentiate itself from its competitors by a higher level of customer service, as intended by its business strategy. • Expansion of National Penn’s products and services offerings may take longer, and may meet with more effective competitive resistance from others already offering such products and services, than expected. • New product development by new and existing competitors may be more effective, and take place more quickly, than expected. • Competitors with substantially greater resources may enter product market, geographic or other niches currently served by National Penn. • Geographic expansion may be more difficult, take longer, and present more operational and management risks and challenges, than expected. • Business development in newly entered geographic areas, including those entered by mergers and acquisitions such as the Nittany acquisition, may be more difficult, and take longer, than expected. • Competitive pressures may increase significantly and have an adverse effect on National Penn’s pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues. • Customers may substitute competitors’ products and services for National Penn’s products and services, due to price advantage, technological advantages, or otherwise. • National Penn may be less effective in cross-selling its various products and services, and in utilizing alternative delivery systems such as the Internet, than expected. 23 • Projected business increases following new product development, geographic expansion, and productivity and investment initiatives, may be lower than expected, and recovery of associated costs may take longer than expected. • National Penn may be unable to retain key executives and other key personnel due to intense competition for such persons or otherwise. • Increasing interest rates may increase funding costs and reduce interest margins, and may adversely affect business volumes, including mortgage origination levels. • Growth and profitability of National Penn’s non-interest income or fee income may be less than expected, including income from mortgage banking activities. • General economic or business conditions, either nationally or in the regions in which National Penn will be doing business, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit. • Expected synergies and cost savings from mergers and acquisitions, including the Nittany acquisition, may not be fully realized or realized as quickly as expected. • Revenues and loan growth following mergers and acquisitions, including the Nittany acquisition, may be lower than expected. • Loan losses, deposit attrition, operating costs, customer and key employee losses, and business disruption following mergers and acquisitions, including the Nittany acquisition, may be greater than expected. • Business opportunities and strategies potentially available to National Penn after mergers and acquisitions, including the Nittany acquisition, may not be successfully or fully acted upon. • Costs, difficulties or delays related to the integration of businesses or systems of acquired companies, including Nittany and its subsidiaries, with National Penn’s business or systems may be greater or take longer than expected. • Technological changes may be harder to make or more expensive than expected or present unanticipated operational issues. • Legislation or regulatory changes, including without limitation, changes in laws or regulations on competition, industry consolidation, development of competing financial products and services, changes in accounting rules and practices, changes in or additional customer privacy and data protection requirements, and intensified regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry in general, may adversely affect National Penn’s costs and business. • Market volatility may continue in the securities markets, with an adverse effect on National Penn’s securities and asset management activities. • There may be unanticipated regulatory rulings or developments. • Changes in consumer spending and savings habits could adversely affect National Penn’s business. • Negative publicity with respect to any National Penn product or service, whether legally justified or not, could adversely affect National Penn’s reputation and business. 24 • Various domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts may have a negative impact on National Penn’s business as well as the foregoing and other risks. • National Penn may be unable to successfully manage the foregoing and other risks and to achieve its current short-term and long-term business plans and objectives. Because such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. National Penn cautions shareholders not to place undue reliance on such statements. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to National Penn or any person acting on its behalf made after the date of this Report are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this Report. National Penn does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Item 