Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks associated with our business Our business may be adversely impacted by new government regulations or changes to current government regulations. We derive approximately 11% of our revenues from Medicaid reimbursed programs. Government legislative initiatives, if enacted, could impose pressures on the pricing structures applicable to our PERS. Our revenue, operating margin and profitability could be adversely affected by new laws and/or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and/or regulations, or reductions in funding or imposition of additional limits on reimbursements. In addition, as a provider of services under Medicaid reimbursed programs, we are subject to the federal fraud and abuse and the so-called “Stark” anti-referral laws, violations of which may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicaid programs. Also, several states have enacted their own statutory analogs of the federal fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws. While we at all times attempt to comply with the applicable federal and state fraud and abuse and anti-referral laws, there can be no assurance that administrative or judicial interpretations of existing statutes or regulations or enactments of new laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Congress has recently passed legislation to reform the U.S. health care system by expanding health insurance coverage, reducing health care costs and supporting other changes. While healthcare reform may increase the number of patients who are eligible for our products, it may also include cost containment measures that adversely affect reimbursement for our products. In addition, based on the final regulations, the Company may also be required to pay additional premiums. Technological changes may negatively affect our business. The telecommunications industry, on which our business is dependent, is subject to significant changes in technology. These technological changes, including changes relating to emerging wireline and wireless transmission technologies, may require us to make changes in the technology we use in our products in order to remain competitive. This may require significant outlays of capital and use of personnel, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Changes in the general economic environment may impact our future business and results of operations. While there seems to be indications of the beginning of a recovery process, current economic conditions, including the credit crisis affecting global financial markets and the possibility of a global recession, could adversely impact the Company’s future business and financial results. These conditions could result in reduced demand for some of the Company’s products, increased order cancellations and returns, increased pressure on the prices of the Company’s products, increased number of days to collect outstanding receivables and/or increased bad debts on outstanding receivables, and greater difficulty in obtaining necessary financing on favorable terms. In 2009, as a result of the housing and credit crisis, the Company realized a decline in its sale of its senior living products. Additionally, as a result of these economic conditions, the Company has experienced the impact of the reduction and termination of funding being provided to our customers in a State program. Product liability and availability of insurance. Because our business involves responding to personal emergencies, failures of our products or errors in the delivery of our services carry a risk of liability claims. We manage this risk through contractual limits on liability and damages, and by carrying insurance. However, the contractual limits may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions or under all circumstances. While historically we have not incurred significant liabilities due to such claims, a successful claim may be made for damages which exceed the coverage under any insurance policy. In the future, our insurance may become more expensive, and there can be no assurance that additional insurance will be available on acceptable terms. If one or more of these occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with our securities We have not established a recurring dividend program . In December 2009, the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per common share, which was paid to shareholders in January 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company did not pay dividends on its common shares. The Company’s Board of Directors is currently exploring the possibility of issuing additional dividends based on Company’s operational performace and cash flow requirements, but there can be no assurance that it will do so, or that it will do so on a regular basis. Shares that are eligible for sale in the future may affect the market price of our common stock. 16 As of March 22, 2010, an aggregate of 2,524,282 of the outstanding shares of our common stock are “restricted securities,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the federal securities laws. These restricted securities may be sold only pursuant to an effective registration statement under the securities laws or in compliance with the exemption provisions of Rule 144 or other securities laws provisions. Rule 144 permits the sale of restricted securities by any person (whether or not an affiliate of the Company) after six months, at which time the sales by affiliates can be made subject to Rule 144’s volume and other limitations and the sales by non-affiliates can be made without regard to Rule 144’s volume and other limitations, other than the limitation regarding public information set forth in Rule 144(c) for an additional six months. In general, an “affiliate” is a person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with the Company. The SEC has stated that generally, executive officers and directors of an entity are deemed affiliates of the entity. In addition, 904,785 shares are issuable pursuant to currently exercisable options or warrants which, upon exercise, would further add to the number of outstanding shares of common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 