Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Variations in interest rates may negatively affect National Penn’s financial performance. Changes in interest rates may reduce profits. The primary source of income for National Penn is the differential, or the net interest spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to repay their obligations. In a declining interest rate environment, National Penn may be unable to re-price deposits downward in the same magnitude and/or with the same timing as the movement in its interest-sensitive assets. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates, whether upward or downward, could materially adversely affect National Penn’s net interest spread, loan origination volume, asset quality and overall profitability. National Penn’s allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposure. National Penn depends on the creditworthiness of its customers. National Penn periodically reviews the adequacy of its allowance for loan losses, considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. As a result of these considerations, National Penn has from time to time increased its allowance for loan losses, most recently for the fourth quarter of 2008, when it increased its provision for loan losses to $18.5 million. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate over time to cover credit losses because of unanticipated adverse changes to the economy caused by recession, inflation, unemployment or other factors beyond National Penn’s control. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, or if the allowance for loan losses is not adequate, National Penn’s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely impact the value of National Penn’s investments. National Penn maintains an investment portfolio which includes, but is not limited to, municipal bonds and collateralized debt obligations. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer or composition of the bonds themselves, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in business climate and lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities. National Penn periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluates investments and other assets for impairment indicators. In conjunction with the third and fourth quarter of 2008 evaluations, National Penn recorded after-tax unrealized losses of $13.0 million and $51.7 million resulting from other-than-temporary impairment charges on collateralized debt obligations. National Penn may be required to record additional impairment charges if investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If it is determined that a significant impairment has occurred, National Penn would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. Included in the investment portfolio is the approximately $57 million in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh that is owned by National Penn. The Federal Home Loan Bank is experiencing a potential capital shortfall, has suspended its quarterly cash dividend, and could possibly require its members, including National Penn, to make additional capital investments in the Home Loan Bank. In order to avail itself of correspondent banking services offered by the Home Loan Bank, National Penn must continue to be a member, i.e., a shareholder in the Home Loan Bank. Should the Home Loan Bank cease operations, write-off of the Home Loan Bank stock owned by National Penn, and the loss of this liquidity source, could have material adverse effect on National Penn’s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations. National Penn may incur impairments to goodwill. National Penn reviews its goodwill at least annually. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the lack of recovery in the market place of National Penn’s common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to National Penn’s business, could indicate that goodwill might be impaired. National Penn’s valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. National Penn operates in competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if National Penn’s analysis results in an impairment to 17 its goodwill, National Penn would be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. National Penn may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of recent transactions. National Penn’s success depends on, among other things, National Penn’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements from recent acquisitions, including the Christiana and KNBT mergers, and to combine the businesses of the acquired companies in a manner that permits growth without materially disrupting existing customer relationships or resulting in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. If National Penn is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Additionally, if the integration efforts following acquisitions are not successfully managed, the failure of these integration efforts could result in loan losses, deposit attrition, operating costs, loss of key employees, disruption of National Penn’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect National Penn’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or result in unanticipated losses. The impact of recently enacted legislation and government programs to stabilize the financial markets cannot be predicted at this time, and such legislation is subject to change. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law. Under EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Pursuant to this authority, the U.S. Treasury announced its Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), under which it is purchasing preferred stock and warrants in eligible institutions, including National Penn, to increase the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In accordance with the terms of the CPP, National Penn issued to the U.S. Treasury shares of senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase shares of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $150 million. Participation in the CPP subjects National Penn to increased oversight by the U.S. Treasury, regulators and Congress. The U.S. Treasury has issued rules implementing the EESA. In addition to these rules, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 contains executive compensation and corporate governance standards that apply to all CPP participants, including National Penn. For example, participation in the CPP restricts National Penn’s ability to increase dividends on its common stock and to repurchase its common stock. In addition, the rules issued by the U.S. Treasury and the Recovery Act subject National Penn to restrictions on executive compensation and require National Penn to submit its executive compensation program to a non-binding shareholder vote. With regard to increased oversight, the U.S. Treasury has the power to unilaterally amend the terms of the CPP purchase agreement to the extent required to comply with changes in applicable federal law and to inspect National Penn’s corporate books and records through its federal banking regulator. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has the right to appoint two directors to National Penn’s board if National Penn misses dividend payments for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, on the preferred stock. We expect that future rulemaking under the EESA and the Recovery Act will be forthcoming from the U.S. Treasury which could impact our operations. Congress has held hearings on implementation of the CPP and the use of funds and may adopt further legislation impacting financial institutions that have obtained funding under the CPP or changing lending practices that legislators believe led to the current economic situation. Furthermore, the U.S. Treasury is required to issue rules interpreting and implementing the executive compensation provisions of the Recovery Act. Although it is unclear what, if any, additional legislation will be enacted into law or rules will be issued, certain laws or rules may be enacted or imposed administratively by the U.S. Treasury that could restrict National Penn’s operations or increase governmental oversight of its businesses and its corporate governance practices. The Special Inspector General for TARP has requested information from TARP participants, including a description of past and anticipated uses of the TARP funds and plans for addressing executive compensation requirements under the CPP. It is unclear at this point what the ramifications of such disclosure are or may be in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA, the Recovery Act and their implementing regulations, or any other governmental program, will have on the financial markets generally, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect National Penn’s business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of National Penn’s common stock. 18 Governmental regulation, legislation and accounting industry pronouncements could adversely affect National Penn. In addition to the EESA, National Penn and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of the operations of National Penn and its subsidiaries and change from time to time. These laws and regulatory efforts are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the government’s deposit insurance funds and the accomplishment of governmental policy objectives such as combating terrorism, e.g., the Bank Secrecy Act. In addition, National Penn is subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. National Penn cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in these areas or in their interpretations or applications will have on National Penn. Any such changes may negatively affect National Penn’s financial performance, its ability to expand its products and services and/or to increase the value of its business and, as a result, could be materially adverse to National Penn’s shareholders. National Penn’s ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to regulatory limits. National Penn is a bank holding company. Its operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of National Penn’s assets are held by its direct and indirect subsidiaries. National Penn’s ability to pay dividends depends primarily on its receipt of dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Its principal bank subsidiary, National Penn Bank, which includes National Penn Bank’s HomeTowne Heritage Bank, KNBT Bank, and Nittany Bank divisions, is National Penn’s primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from National Penn Bank and Christiana are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by bank regulatory agencies. The ability of National Penn Bank and Christiana to pay dividends is also subject to profitability, financial condition, regulatory capital requirements, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that National Penn Bank, Christiana and/or National Penn’s other subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that National Penn will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders in the future. National Penn’s ability to pay dividends is also subject to limitations imposed by the terms of the CPP. National Penn’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect National Penn’s profitability. National Penn’s subsidiaries face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of National Penn’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. Additionally, several of National Penn’s banking competitors have participated or may participate in the CPP and other government programs, which would subject National Penn to more intense competition. Such competitors are large financial institutions that have received multi-million or multi-billion dollar infusions of capital from the U.S. Treasury or other support from federal programs, which has strengthened their balance sheets and enhanced their ability to withstand the uncertainty of the current economic environment. This competition could reduce National Penn’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that National Penn’s subsidiaries originate and the interest rates they may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, National Penn’s subsidiaries face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of National Penn’s competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources (from participation in the CPP or otherwise), more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than National Penn, which could decrease the deposits that National Penn attracts or require National Penn to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect National Penn’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, National Penn may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase National Penn’s cost of funds. National Penn’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of National Penn’s non-bank competitors are subject to less extensive regulations than those governing National Penn’s banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over 19 National Penn’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing financial products and services. This competition may reduce or limit National Penn’s margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce its market share and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. National Penn’s subsidiaries face intense competition with various other financial institutions for the attraction and retention of key personnel, specifically those who generate and maintain National Penn’s customer relationships. These competitors may not be subject to the limitations on executive compensation imposed under the EESA and the Recovery Act, may not be subject to federal taxation, and may offer greater compensation and other benefits, which could result in the loss of potential and/or existing key personnel, including the loss of potential and/or existing substantial customer relationships. National Penn’s future information technology needs, developments and events may negatively affect National Penn’s financial performance and reputation. Effective and competitive delivery of National Penn’s products and services is increasingly dependent upon information technology resources and processes, both those provided internally as well as those provided through third party vendors. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables National Penn to reduce costs. National Penn’s future success will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of National Penn’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Additionally, as technology in the financial services industry changes and evolves, keeping pace becomes increasingly complex and expensive for National Penn, and National Penn’s need to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel becomes increasingly critical, particularly as National Penn completes future acquisitions and enters into new markets. There can be no assurance that National Penn will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce its ability to effectively compete. National Penn operates in a legal and regulatory environment that generally seeks to minimize the risks for consumers and other product end-users and protect their interests. Maintaining information security and dealing with any breach of information security, whether by National Penn or by a third party, may be difficult and expensive. National Penn may be exposed to both financial and reputational risk if there is a compromise or loss of data, whether due to internal or external acts or omissions, and whether intentional or not, or if there is electronic fraud. National Penn’s internal control systems are inherently limited. National Penn’s system of internal controls, disclosure controls and corporate governance policies and procedures is inherently limited. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake and controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which may have an adverse effect on National Penn’s business, results of operations or financial condition. A Warning About Forward-Looking Information This Report, including information incorporated by reference in this Report, contains forward-looking statements about National Penn and its subsidiaries. In addition, from time to time, National Penn or its representatives may make written or oral forward-looking statements about National Penn and its subsidiaries. These forward-looking statements are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “plan,” “seek,” “target,” “intend” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements include discussions of strategy, financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives, expectations or consequences of various transactions, and statements about the future performance, operations, products and services of National Penn and its subsidiaries. National Penn cautions its shareholders and other readers not to place undue reliance on such statements. National Penn’s businesses and operations are and will be subject to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors. Consequently, actual results and experience may materially differ from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and experience to differ from those projected include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth above, as well as the following: 20 • National Penn’s branding and marketing initiatives may not be effective in building name recognition and customer awareness of National Penn’s products and services. • National Penn may be unable to differentiate itself from its competitors by a higher level of customer service, as intended by its business strategy and other marketing initiatives. • Expansion of National Penn’s product and service offerings may take longer, and may meet with more effective competitive resistance from others already offering such products and services, than expected. Additionally, new product development by new and existing competitors may be more effective, and take place more quickly, than expected. • Business development in newly entered geographic areas may be more difficult, present more operational and management risks and challenges, and take longer, than expected. • National Penn may be unable to attract, motivate, and/or retain key executives and other key personnel due to intense competition for such persons or otherwise. • Growth and profitability of National Penn’s non-interest income or fee income may be less than expected. • General economic or business conditions, either nationally or in the regions in which National Penn does business, may deteriorate or be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, a reduced demand for credit, or a decision by National Penn to reevaluate staffing levels or to divest one or more lines of business. • In the current environment of increased investor activism, including hedge fund investment policies and practices, shareholder concerns or actions due to stock price changes of financial service companies may require increased management/board attention, efforts and commitments, deferring or decreasing the focus on business development and operations. • The current stresses in the financial markets may inhibit National Penn's ability to access the capital markets or obtain financing on favorable terms. • Repurchase obligations with respect to real estate mortgages sold in the secondary market could adversely affect National Penn’s earnings. • Changes in consumer spending and savings habits could adversely affect National Penn’s business. • Negative publicity with respect to any National Penn product or service, employee, director or other associated individual or entity whether legally justified or not, could adversely affect National Penn’s reputation and business. • National Penn may be unable to successfully manage the foregoing and other risks and to achieve its current short-term and long-term business plans and objectives. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to National Penn or any person acting on its behalf made after the date of this Report are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risk factors and cautionary statements contained in this Report. National Penn does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 