Item 1A. RISK FACTORS National Penn’s failure to comply with its agreements with it primary regulator may harm its business and financial results. On January 27, 2010, National Penn Bank entered into a memorandum of understanding with the OCC, its primary regulator. Under this informal agreement, National Penn Bank has agreed to develop and implement initiatives to enhance the oversight of problem assets, enhance its process for the allowance for loan and lease losses, and strengthen its internal loan review and credit administration functions. Implementing and completing these initiatives may require substantial oversight of our senior management team and directors and may constrain our operations. Additionally, National Penn Bank has agreed to achieve (by March 31, 2010) and maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 8.0%, and to maintain a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12.0%. See Part I, Item 1 of this Report. If National Penn Bank fails to comply with the memorandum of understanding, or if National Penn Bank is unable to achieve and/or maintain its capital ratios at the agreed upon levels, National Penn Bank may be subject to further, formal supervisory enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operation and business. National Penn may need to, or may be compelled to, raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and on terms favorable to current shareholders. Federal banking regulators require National Penn and its banking subsidiaries to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations. These capital levels are determined and dictated by law, regulation and banking regulatory agencies. In addition, capital levels are also determined by National Penn's management and board of directors based on capital levels that they believe are necessary to support National Penn's business operations. At December 31, 2009, all three capital ratios for National Penn’s banking subsidiaries were above "well capitalized" levels under current bank regulatory guidelines. To be "well capitalized," banking companies generally must maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. As noted above, National Penn has agreed with its primary regulator to achieve (by March 31, 2010) and maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 8.0%, and to maintain a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12.0%. In order to achieve these agreed-upon capital levels, National Penn may have to reduce assets, seek alternative means to increase capital, or both. If National Penn raises capital through the issuance of additional shares of its common stock or other securities, it would likely dilute the ownership interests of current investors and could dilute the per share book value and earnings per share of its common stock. Please refer to the risk factor below titled "There may be future sales or other dilution of National Penn's equity, which may adversely affect the market price of National Penn's common stock." Furthermore, a capital raise through issuance of additional shares may have an adverse impact on National Penn's stock price. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to National Penn's current shareholders, which may adversely impact its current shareholders. National Penn's ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of its control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, National Penn cannot be certain of its ability to raise additional capital on terms and time frames acceptable to it or to raise additional capital at all. If National Penn cannot raise additional capital in sufficient amounts when needed, its ability to comply with regulatory capital requirements could be materially impaired. Additionally, the inability to raise capital in sufficient amounts may adversely affect National Penn's operations, financial condition and results of operations. Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in commercial, construction and real estate loans, has adversely impacted National Penn and may continue to adversely impact National Penn. In late 2008, National Penn began to experience a downturn in the overall credit performance of its loan portfolio, as well as acceleration in the deterioration of general economic conditions. This deterioration, as well as a significant increase in national and regional unemployment levels and decreased sources of liquidity, are the primary drivers of the increased stress being placed on most borrowers and is negatively impacting their ability to repay. These conditions resulted in an increase in National Penn's loan loss reserves at December 31, 2009. National Penn expects credit quality to remain challenging and at elevated levels of risk at least throughout 2010. Continued deterioration in the quality of National Penn's credit portfolio could significantly increase nonperforming loans, require additional increases in loan loss reserves, elevate charge-off levels and have a material adverse effect on National Penn's capital, financial condition and results of operations. 16 National Penn's allowance for loan and lease losses may prove inadequate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposure. National Penn depends on the creditworthiness of its customers. National Penn periodically reviews the adequacy of its allowance for loan losses, considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets, and regulatory requirements. As a result of these considerations, National Penn has from time to time increased its allowance for loan losses, most recently for the year ended December 31, 2009, during which its provision for loan losses brought the total allowance for loan and lease losses to $146.3 million. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate over time to cover credit losses because of unanticipated adverse changes to the economy caused by recession, inflation, unemployment or other factors beyond National Penn's control. If the credit quality of National Penn's customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, or if the allowance for loan losses is not adequate, National Penn's business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because its operations are concentrated in eastern Pennsylvania, National Penn's performance and financial condition may be adversely affected by regional economic conditions and real estate values. National Penn's loan activities are largely based in 13 counties in eastern Pennsylvania. To a lesser extent, National Penn's deposit base is also generated from this area. As a result, National Penn's consolidated financial performance depends largely upon economic conditions in this eastern Pennsylvania region. Deteriorating local economic conditions during 2008 and 2009 caused National Penn to experience an increase in loan delinquencies, an increase in the number of borrowers who defaulted on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans. A continued downturn in the regional real estate market could further harm National Penn's financial condition and results of operations because of the geographic concentration of loans within this regional area and because a large percentage of its loans are secured by real property. If there is a further decline in real estate values, the collateral for National Penn's loans will provide less security. As a result, National Penn's ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and National Penn will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely impact the value of National Penn's investments, financial performance and capital. National Penn maintains an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, municipal bonds, bank equity securities, or individual trust preferred securities. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer or composition of the bonds themselves, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in business climate and lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities. National Penn periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluates investments and other assets for impairment indicators. National Penn may be required to record additional impairment charges if investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If National Penn determines that a significant impairment has occurred, National Penn would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. National Penn's investment portfolio includes approximately $57 million in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh. This stock ownership is required of all Home Loan Bank members as part of the overall Home Loan Bank capitalization. The Home Loan Bank is experiencing a potential capital shortfall, has suspended its quarterly cash dividend, and could possibly require its members, including National Penn, to make additional capital investments in the Home Loan Bank. In order to avail itself of correspondent banking services offered by the Home Loan Bank, National Penn must remain a member of the Home Loan Bank. If the Home Loan Bank were to cease operations, or if National Penn were required to write-off its investment in the Home Loan Bank, National Penn's business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 17 National Penn may incur additional impairments to goodwill. National Penn tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually as of June 30th. National Penn performed an interim goodwill impairment evaluation in connection with the preparation, review and audit of its December 31, 2009 financial statements included in this Report. Based on the results of its evaluation, National Penn recorded a $275 million goodwill impairment charge in 2009, and as of December 31, 2009, had approximately $282 million of goodwill remaining on its balance sheet. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the lack of recovery in the market price of National Penn's common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to National Penn's business, could result in further impairments to goodwill. National Penn's valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. National Penn operates in competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. If National Penn's analysis results in additional impairment to its goodwill, National Penn would be required to record an impairment charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on National Penn's results of operations and our stock price. National Penn’s ability to realize its deferred tax asset may be reduced, which may adversely impact results of operations. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires National Penn to exercise significant judgment and is inherently uncertain because it requires the prediction of future occurrences. National Penn’s deferred tax asset may be reduced in the future if estimates of future income or our tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax asset. If it is determined that a valuation allowance of its deferred tax asset is necessary, National Penn may incur a charge to earnings. National Penn’s deferred tax asset was not included in regulatory capital beginning in the third quarter of 2009. At December 31, 2009 the deferred tax asset of $83.9 million was excluded from regulatory capital calculations. Negative conditions in the general economy and financial services industry may limit National Penn's access to additional funding and adversely impact liquidity. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on National Penn's liquidity. National Penn's access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities could be impaired by factors that affect it specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact National Penn's access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of its business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against it. National Penn's ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to National Penn, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. National Penn’s business operations are subject to pervasive and comprehensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision which could adversely affect National Penn. Business operations of National Penn and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, and supervision that govern almost all aspects of business operations. This regulatory framework is primarily designed to protect consumers, depositors and the government’s deposit insurance funds, and to accomplish other governmental policy objectives such as combating terrorism. Areas such as Bank Secrecy Act compliance (including BSA and related anti-money laundering regulations) and real estate-secured consumer lending (such as Truth-in-lending regulations, changes in RESPA regulations, and implementation of licensing and registration requirements for mortgage originators) are being confronted with escalating regulatory expectations and scrutiny. Failure by National Penn to meet these expectations could result in adverse action by regulators, which would negatively affect National Penn’s reputation and could adversely affect National Penn’s ability to manage its business, and as a result, could be materially adverse to National Penn’s shareholders. The impact of recently enacted legislation, proposed legislation, and government programs intended to stabilize the financial markets cannot be predicted at this time, and such legislation is subject to change. 18 On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, was signed into law. Under EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Pursuant to this authority, the U.S. Treasury announced its Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), under which it is purchasing preferred stock and warrants in eligible institutions, including National Penn, to increase the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In accordance with the terms of the CPP, National Penn issued to the U.S. Treasury shares of Series B Preferred Stock and a Warrant to purchase 1,470,588 shares of National Penn common stock at $15.30 a share (the “Warrant”), for an aggregate purchase price of $150 million. The number of shares subject to the Warrant was reduced to 735,294 after National Penn's completion in the third quarter 2009 of a "qualifying equity offering" of more than $150 million. Participation in the CPP subjects National Penn to increased oversight by the U.S. Treasury, regulators and Congress. On February 17, 2009, the EESA was amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the ARRA. The EESA, the ARRA and the rules issued under these acts contain executive compensation restrictions and corporate governance standards that apply to all CPP participants, including National Penn. For example, participation in the CPP imposes restrictions on National Penn's ability to pay cash dividends on, and to repurchase, its common stock. With regard to increased oversight, the U.S. Treasury has the power to unilaterally amend the terms of the CPP purchase agreement to the extent required to comply with changes in applicable federal law and to inspect National Penn's corporate books and records through its federal banking regulator. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has the right to appoint two persons to National Penn's board of directors if National Penn misses dividend payments for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, on the preferred stock. The EESA, the ARRA and the related rules subject National Penn to restrictions on executive compensation that are complex, far-reaching, and unprecedented, and that could materially affect National Penn's ability to attract, motivate, and/or retain key executives and other key personnel. In addition, National Penn is now required to submit its executive compensation program to an advisory (non-binding) shareholder vote. Congress has held hearings on implementation of the CPP and the use of funds and may adopt further legislation impacting financial institutions that have obtained funding under the CPP or changing lending practices that legislators believe led to the current economic situation. Although it is unclear what, if any, additional legislation will be enacted into law or rules will be issued, certain laws or rules may be enacted or imposed administratively by the U.S. Treasury that could further restrict National Penn's operations or increase governmental oversight of its businesses and its corporate governance practices. The Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, has requested information from CPP and other TARP participants, including a description of past and anticipated uses of the TARP funds and plans for addressing executive compensation requirements under the CPP. National Penn and other CPP participants are also required to submit monthly reports about their lending and financial intermediation activities to the U.S. Treasury. It is unclear at this point what the ramifications of such disclosure are or may be in the future. The ultimate impact that the EESA, the ARRA and their implementing regulations, or any other legislation or governmental program, will have on the financial markets is unknown at this time. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect National Penn's business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of National Penn's common stock. New or changed governmental legislation or regulation and accounting industry pronouncements could adversely affect National Penn. In addition to the EESA and ARRA, other changes in federal and state legislation and regulation may affect National Penn’s operations. Changes will be significant if Congress enacts proposed financial regulatory reform such as the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 which passed in the House of Representatives in December 2009. In addition, National Penn is subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. National Penn cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in financial market regulation or accounting rules and interpretations will have on National Penn. Any such changes may negatively affect National Penn’s financial performance, its ability to expand its products and services and/or to increase the value of its business and, as a result, could be materially adverse to National Penn’s shareholders. 19 National Penn may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums or special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. Recent bank failures have severely depleted the FDIC’s insurance fund. In response, the FDIC adopted a final rule effective April 1, 2009, which differentiates for risk in calculating assessment rates. The FDIC levied a special assessment to all insured institutions payable June 30, 2009 to replenish the fund and at December 30, 2009, required insured institutions to pay 2010-2012 insurance premiums in advance. Any additional special assessments could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect National Penn's profitability. National Penn's banking subsidiaries face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of National Penn's competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. Additionally, several of National Penn's banking competitors are large financial institutions that have received multi-million or multi-billion dollar infusions of capital from the U.S. Treasury or other support from federal programs, which has strengthened their balance sheets and enhanced their ability to withstand the uncertainty of the current economic environment. Intensified competition from these institutions could reduce National Penn's net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that National Penn's subsidiaries originate and the interest rates they may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, National Penn's banking subsidiaries face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of National Penn's competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources (from participation in the CPP or otherwise), more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than National Penn, which could decrease the deposits that National Penn attracts or require National Penn to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect National Penn's ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, National Penn may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase National Penn's cost of funds. National Penn's banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of National Penn's non-bank competitors are subject to less extensive regulations than those governing National Penn's banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over National Penn's banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing financial products and services. This competition may reduce or limit National Penn's margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce its market share and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. Inability to hire or retain key personnel could adversely affect National Penn’s business. National Penn's subsidiaries face intense competition with various other financial institutions for the attraction and retention of key personnel, specifically those who generate and maintain National Penn's customer relationships and serve in other key operation positions in the areas of finance, credit administration, loan functions and information technology. These competitors may not be subject to the limitations on executive compensation imposed under the EESA and the ARRA, may not be subject to federal taxation, and may offer greater compensation and other benefits, which could result in the loss of potential and/or existing key personnel, which may result in the loss of potential and/or existing substantial customer relationships. Variations in interest rates may negatively affect National Penn's financial performance. Changes in interest rates may reduce profits. The primary source of income for National Penn currently is the differential, or the net interest spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to repay their obligations. In a declining interest rate environment, National Penn may be unable to re-price deposits downward in the same magnitude and/or with the same timing as the movement in its interest-sensitive assets. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates, whether upward or downward, could materially adversely affect National Penn's net interest spread, loan origination volume, asset quality and overall profitability. 20 If National Penn's information systems are interrupted or sustain a breach in security, those events may negatively affect National Penn's financial performance and reputation. In conducting its business, National Penn relies heavily on its information systems. Maintaining and protecting those systems is difficult and expensive, as is dealing with any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether due to acts or omissions by National Penn or by a third party and whether intentional or not. Any such failure, interruption or breach could result in failures or disruptions in National Penn's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. The policies, procedures and technical safeguards put in place by National Penn to prevent or limit the effect of any failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems may be insufficient to prevent or remedy the effects of any such occurrences. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of National Penn's information systems could damage National Penn's reputation, result in a loss of customer business and data, subject National Penn to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose National Penn to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on National Penn's financial condition and results of operations. If National Penn's information technology is unable to keep pace with its growth or industry developments, National Penn's financial performance may suffer. Effective and competitive delivery of National Penn's products and services is increasingly dependent upon information technology resources and processes, both those provided internally as well as those provided through third party vendors. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables National Penn to reduce costs. National Penn's future success will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of National Penn's competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Additionally, as technology in the financial services industry changes and evolves, keeping pace becomes increasingly complex and expensive for National Penn. National Penn's need to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel becomes increasingly critical, particularly as National Penn may complete future acquisitions and enter new markets. There can be no assurance that National Penn will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce its ability to compete effectively. National Penn's internal control systems are inherently limited. National Penn's system of internal controls, disclosure controls and corporate governance policies and procedures is inherently limited. The inherent limitations of National Penn's system of internal controls include the use of judgments in decision-making that can be faulty, breakdowns can occur because of human error or mistakes, and controls can be circumvented by individual acts or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected, which may have an adverse effect on National Penn's business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, any plans of remediation for any identified limitations may be ineffective in improving National Penn's internal controls. There may be future sales or other dilution of National Penn's equity, which may adversely affect the market price of National Penn's common stock. National Penn is not restricted from issuing additional common shares, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common shares. National Penn is currently authorized to issue up to 250 million common shares, of which 125.7 million shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2009, and up to one million shares of preferred stock, none of which shares are outstanding other than 150,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, which National Penn issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with participation in the CPP. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, 627,427 shares are available for purchase under National Penn's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan and its Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan allows employee shareholders to purchase shares of National Penn common shares at a 10% discount from market value. As of December 31, 2009, 830,755 shares are issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units and/or exercise of stock options that have been, or stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards and restricted stock that may be, issued under National Penn's equity compensation plans. The U.S. Treasury may, at its option, exercise its Warrant to purchase 735,294 of National Penn's common shares (the number of shares remaining subject to the Warrant after National Penn’s completion in the third quarter 2009 of a “qualifying equity offering” of more than $150 million). Should the U.S. Treasury exercise its Warrant or should National Penn experience strong participation in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan or the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, the issuance of the required shares of common stock will dilute the ownership of National Penn's shareholders and could depress our stock price. National Penn also has the ability to issue an unlimited amount of securities including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, depositary shares and securities warrants, from time to time at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of sale under an active shelf registration statement, which it filed with the SEC on November 7, 2008. National Penn's board of directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. These authorized but unissued shares could be issued on terms or in circumstances that could dilute the interests of other shareholders. 21 In addition, National Penn may decide to repurchase the Series B Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with National Penn's participation in the CPP. To repurchase the preferred stock, National Penn is required to obtain the approval of National Penn's primary federal regulator which may require National Penn to raise additional capital prior to repurchasing the Series B Preferred Stock. Should National Penn choose to raise capital by selling shares of common stock for any reason, including, without limitation, for the purpose of repurchasing its Series B Preferred Stock or for increasing its regulatory capital, the issuance would have a dilutive effect on National Penn's other shareholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of National Penn's common stock. National Penn relies on dividends it receives from its subsidiaries, may further reduce or eliminate the cash dividends on its common stock, and is subject to restrictions on its ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase shares of common stock. As a bank holding company, National Penn's ability to pay dividends depends primarily on its receipt of dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Its principal bank subsidiary, National Penn Bank, is National Penn's primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from National Penn Bank and Christiana Bank & Trust Company are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by bank regulatory agencies. The ability of National Penn Bank and Christiana Bank & Trust Company to pay dividends is also subject to profitability, financial condition, regulatory capital requirements, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. As of December 31, 2009, National Penn Bank and Christiana Bank & Trust Company did not have the ability to pay dividends to National Penn without prior regulatory approval. There is no assurance that National Penn Bank, Christiana Bank & Trust Company and/or National Penn's other subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future. In January 2010, National Penn's board of directors approved a first quarter 2010 cash dividend of $0.01 per share, which was the same dividend declared and paid for the fourth quarter 2009, but which was a reduction from the $0.05 per share amount paid in the third quarter 2009. The board reduced the common stock cash dividend in the fourth quarter 2009 to preserve capital and strengthen National Penn's tangible common equity levels. There can be no assurance that National Penn will pay dividends to its shareholders in the future, or if dividends are paid, that National Penn will increase its dividend to historical levels or otherwise. National Penn's ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is not only subject to limitations imposed by the terms of the CPP, but also to guidance issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve. Under this guidance, bank holding companies like National Penn are advised to consult in advance with the Federal Reserve before declaring dividends, and to strongly consider reducing, deferring or eliminating dividends, in certain situations—for example, when declaring or paying a dividend that would exceed earnings for the fiscal quarter for which the dividend is being paid, or when declaring or paying a dividend that could result in a material adverse change to the organization's capital structure. Importantly, this Federal Reserve guidance is relevant not only to dividends paid on National Penn's common stock, but also to those payable in respect of National Penn's preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury. National Penn's failure to pay dividends on its preferred stock or common stock could have a material adverse effect on its business, operations, financial condition, access to funding and the market price of its common stock. 22 Under the terms of National Penn's purchase agreement with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which National Penn issued the Series B Preferred Stock and the Warrant, National Penn's ability to declare or pay dividends on any of its stock is restricted. Specifically, National Penn may not declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred stock if it is in arrears on the dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock. Further, National Penn may not increase the quarterly cash dividends on its common stock above $0.17 per share, without the U.S. Treasury's approval until December 12, 2011 unless all of the Series B Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. National Penn's ability to repurchase its common stock is also restricted under the terms of the purchase agreement with the U.S. Treasury. The U.S. Treasury's consent generally is required for National Penn to make any stock repurchases until December 12, 2011 unless all of the Series B Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if National Penn is in arrears on the Series B Preferred Stock dividends. There can be no assurance that National Penn will repurchase the Series B Preferred Stock and the Warrant or that National Penn's regulators would approve such redemption and repurchase. National Penn has not determined if or when it will seek the approval of its regulators to repurchase the Series B Preferred Stock and the Warrant. Such repurchases are subject to regulatory approval. There can be no assurance when or if the Series B Preferred Stock and Warrant can be repurchased or what the redemption price for the Warrant will be. Until such time as the Series B Preferred Stock and the Warrant is repurchased, National Penn will remain subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the purchase agreement with the U.S. Treasury, the Series B Preferred Stock and the Warrant, which, among other things, require National Penn to obtain regulatory approval to pay quarterly dividends on its common stock in excess of $0.17 per share and, with some exceptions, to repurchase its common stock. Further, National Penn's continued participation in the CPP subjects it to increased regulatory and legislative oversight. See the risk factor titled “The impact of recently enacted legislation, proposed legislation, and government programs intended to stabilize the financial markets cannot be predicted at this time, and such legislation is subject to change.” A Warning About Forward-Looking Information This Report, including information incorporated by reference in this Report, contains forward-looking statements about National Penn and its subsidiaries. In addition, from time to time, National Penn or its representatives may make written or oral forward-looking statements about National Penn and its subsidiaries. These forward-looking statements are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “plan,” “seek,” “target,” “intend” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements include discussions of strategy, financial projections, guidance and estimates (including their underlying assumptions), statements regarding plans, objectives, expectations or consequences of various transactions, and statements about the future performance, operations, products and services of National Penn and its subsidiaries. National Penn cautions its shareholders and other readers not to place undue reliance on such statements. National Penn’s businesses and operations are and will be subject to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors. Consequently, actual results and experience may materially differ from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and experience to differ from those projected include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth above, as well as the following: 23 · National Penn’s branding and marketing initiatives may not be effective in building name recognition and customer awareness of National Penn’s products and services. · National Penn may be unable to differentiate itself from its competitors by a higher level of customer service, as intended by its business strategy and other marketing initiatives. · Expansion of National Penn’s product and service offerings may take longer, and may meet with more effective competitive resistance from others already offering such products and services, than expected. Additionally, new product development by new and existing competitors may be more effective, and take place more quickly, than expected. · National Penn may be unable to attract, motivate, and/or retain key executives and other key personnel due to intense competition for such persons, National Penn’s cost saving strategies, increased governmental oversight or otherwise. · Growth and profitability of National Penn’s non-interest income or fee income may be less than expected, particularly as a result of current financial market conditions. · General economic or business conditions, either nationally or in the regions in which National Penn does business, may continue to deteriorate or be more prolonged than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality, a reduced demand for credit, or a decision by National Penn to reevaluate staffing levels or to divest one or more lines of business. · In the current environment of increased investor activism, including hedge fund investment policies and practices, shareholder concerns or actions due to stock price fluctuations may require increased management/board attention, efforts and commitments, which could require a shift in focus from business development and operations. · Current stresses in the financial markets may inhibit National Penn's ability to access the capital markets or obtain financing on favorable terms. · Repurchase obligations with respect to real estate mortgages sold in the secondary market could adversely affect National Penn’s earnings. · Changes in consumer spending and savings habits could adversely affect National Penn’s business. · Negative publicity with respect to any National Penn product or service, employee, director or other associated individual or entity whether legally justified or not, could adversely affect National Penn’s reputation and business. · National Penn may be unable to successfully manage the foregoing and other risks and to achieve its current short-term and long-term business plans and objectives. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to National Penn or any person acting on its behalf made after the date of this Report are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risk factors and cautionary statements contained in this Report. National Penn does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 24 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 