Item 1A. Risk Factors Current conditions in the capital markets and the economy continue to pose significant challenges and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally, which continue to be uncertain and include sluggish economic growth, accompanied by high unemployment and historically low interest rates. In recent years, the economic downturn produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. In recent years, concerns over unemployment, energy costs, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a depressed U.S. real estate market and geopolitical issues such as sovereign-debt defaults and euro-zone political uncertainty have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets in the near term. Dramatic declines in the housing market in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. While conditions have improved, a return to a recessionary economy could result in financial stress on our borrowers that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Deteriorating conditions in the regional economy we serve could drive losses beyond those provided for in our allowance for loan losses. The markets for fixed income instruments have experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. Domestic and international equity markets have also experienced periods of heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as Susquehanna) that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, automobile and credit markets particularly affected. These events and other market disturbances may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and also because we are dependent upon customer behavior. Our revenues are susceptible to decline in such circumstances, and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme and prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The economic slowdown has resulted in legislative and regulatory actions including the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act that has impacted our business and will further impact our business in the future. In addition, we cannot predict whether there will be additional legislative or regulatory actions, when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the mix and volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates, and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. 15 Table of Contents Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce our net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events, and changes in the United States and other financial markets. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest- rate-sensitive assets and interest-rate-sensitive liabilities. However, interest-rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. We may not be able to continue to grow our business, which may adversely impact our results of operations. Our total assets have grown from approximately $13.7 billion at December 31, 2008, to $18.5 billion at December 31, 2013. Our long-term business strategy calls for continued expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully attract deposits, identify favorable loan and investment opportunities, and acquire other bank and non-bank entities. In the event that we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund this growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as obtaining regulatory approvals, national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and failure of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to operational and credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Losses related to these credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums in the future. Following the recent financial crisis, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance to $250,000 per account, which placed additional stress on the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, removes the statutory cap for the reserve ratio, leaving the FDIC with discretion to set this cap going forward, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. Recent FDIC regulations revise the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (generally institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets, such as Susquehanna Bank). Under the regulations, the FDIC uses a scorecard method to calculate assessment rates for all such institutions. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If additional bank or financial institution failures occur, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Further, the FDIC may make material changes to the calculation of the prepaid assessment from the current proposal. Any future changes in the calculation or assessment of FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. 16 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act and related legislation regarding the financial services industry could detrimentally affect our business. As a publicly traded financial holding company, we are subject to various requirements and restrictions under the Dodd-Frank Act. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and requires that listed companies implement and disclose “clawback” policies for recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, affect retention of key personnel, require us to increase our regulatory capital, require us to invest significant management attention and resources and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Government regulation significantly affects our business. Apart from the Dodd-Frank Act, the banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders. See “Item 1. Business- Supervision and Regulation.” As a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiary is also regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and is subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities and recently, by the CFPB as to consumer financial services and products. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. Several of these non-bank subsidiaries engage in providing investment management and insurance brokerage services, industries that are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. In addition, newly enacted and amended laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the financial service industry may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. Such changes may adversely affect us, including our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and leases and achieve satisfactory spreads, and may also result in the imposition of additional costs on us. As a public company, we are also subject to the corporate governance standards set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as any applicable rules or regulations promulgated by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. Complying with these existing and any newly enacted standards, rules and regulations may impose administrative costs and burdens on us. Geographic concentration in one market may unfavorably impact our operations. Substantially all of our business is with customers located within Pennsylvania, Maryland, and New Jersey, and our operations are heavily concentrated in the Mid-Atlantic region. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in this market could: • increase loan delinquencies; • increase problem assets and foreclosures; • increase claims and lawsuits; • decrease the demand for our products and services; and • decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with nonperforming loans and collateral coverage. Generally, we make loans to small to mid-sized businesses whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and performance. For example, we place substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for our loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of our loans inadequately collateralized. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings could be adversely affected. The inability to hire or retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. Susquehanna and its subsidiaries face intense competition with various other financial institutions, as well as from non-bank providers of financial services, such as credit unions, brokerage firms, insurance agencies, consumer finance companies and 17 Table of Contents government organizations, for the attraction and retention of key personnel, specifically those who generate and maintain our customer relationships and serve in other key operation positions in the areas of finance, credit oversight and administration, and wealth management. These competitors may offer greater compensation and benefits, which could result in the loss of potential and/or existing substantial customer relationships and may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our exposure to credit risk, which is heightened by our focus on commercial lending, could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of a loan backed by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Commercial loans, including commercial real estate, are generally viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Our consolidated commercial lending operations include commercial, financial and agricultural lending, real estate construction lending, and commercial mortgage lending, which comprised 17.6%, 5.4% and 30.0% of our total loan portfolio, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. Construction financing typically involves a higher degree of credit risk than commercial mortgage lending. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely on the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction compared to the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimated property value proves to be inaccurate, the loan may be inadequately collateralized. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial loans, and construction loans, the deterioration of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could cause an increase in loan charge-offs and a corresponding increase in the provision for loan losses, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, could materially affect how we report our financial condition or results of operations. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial condition and results of operations, and are based on current accounting rules. Certain of our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, are “critical”, as they are both important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations, and they require management to make particularly difficult, complex, or subjective judgments and estimates, often regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ from our estimates and the use of different judgments and assumptions related to these policies and estimates could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a description of our critical accounting policies, refer to “Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Part II, Item 8. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict, and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply new or revised guidance retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised guidance could result in material adverse effects to our reported capital. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan and lease losses, our earnings would decrease. To absorb probable, incurred loan and lease losses that we may realize, we recognize an allowance for loan and lease losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience, and delinquency trends. However, we cannot estimate loan and lease losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. If charge-offs exceed our allowance, our earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Factors that require an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses, such as a prolonged economic downturn or continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could reduce our earnings. Our controls and procedures could fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurances of the effectiveness of these systems and controls, and that the objectives of these controls have been met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, and any failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Susquehanna Bank could be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers due to breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Susquehanna Bank is the successor to Graystone Tower Bank and its predecessor, the First National Bank of Chester County (“FNBCC”). FNBCC operated a significant amount of mortgage banking activities through its American Home Bank Division (“AHB Division”). When FNBCC or Graystone Tower Bank sold mortgage loans through this division, they were required to make customary representations and warranties to purchasers about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. The whole loan sale agreements assumed by Susquehanna Bank through the Tower merger require it to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event there was a breach of any of these representations or warranties. In addition, Susquehanna Bank may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, Susquehanna Bank is required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if it breaches a representation or warranty that was previously made in connection with a securitization. Although Susquehanna Bank may have remedies available against the originating broker or correspondent in these situations, those remedies may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against Susquehanna Bank, and Susquehanna Bank faces further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to it. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies, Susquehanna Bank may not be able to recover its losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase significantly, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability. Our banking subsidiary faces substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages over Susquehanna, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that our banking subsidiary originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, our bank subsidiary faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages over Susquehanna, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. Our banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over our banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act sets a statutory floor for risk-based and leverage capital standards, and the federal banking agencies have adopted new rules that increase our regulatory capital requirements. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. We anticipate that our current capital levels will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, our existing shareholders’ interests in us could be diluted. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables 19 Table of Contents financial service institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our business we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information in both paper and electronic form. We have taken reasonable and prudent security measures to prevent the loss of this information, including steps to detect and deter cyber-related crimes intended to electronically infiltrate our network, capture sensitive client and customer information, deny service to customers via our website, and harm our electronic processing capability. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses or compromises, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by disasters, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities. Neither the occurrence nor the potential impact of disasters, terrorist activities and international hostilities can be predicted. However, these occurrences could impact us directly as a result of damage to our facilities or by preventing us from conducting our business in the ordinary course, or indirectly as a result of their impact on our borrowers, the value of collateral, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties. We could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy in general or in any particular region. For example, a significant earthquake could impact us directly by disrupting our business operations or could lead to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in our experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. Our ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of our resiliency planning, and our ability, if any, to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of disasters or terrorist activities or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with, particularly those that we depend upon but have no control over. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings. Reputational risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct our business activities, including activities in our private and business banking operations and investment and trust operations; our management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues; and our protection of confidential client information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in the way we conduct our business activities and deal with our clients, communities and vendors, these steps may not be effective. The Pennsylvania business corporation law and various anti-takeover provisions under our articles of incorporation could impede the takeover of the company. Various Pennsylvania laws affecting business corporations may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire Susquehanna, even if the acquisition would be advantageous to shareholders. In addition, we have various anti-takeover measures in place under our articles of incorporation. Any one or more of these measures may impede the takeover of Susquehanna without the approval of our board of directors and may prevent our shareholders from taking part in a transaction in which they could realize a premium over the current market price of our common stock. Acquisitions may place additional burdens on our business and dilute our shareholders’ value. From time to time, we evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We consider merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management, and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or 20 Table of Contents expanded services. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses, litigation, or unexpected future operating expenses such as unanticipated costs to integrate the two businesses, increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition following a merger or acquisition. In addition, if actual costs are materially different than expected costs, such a merger or acquisition could have a significant dilutive effect on our earnings per share. We have been and will likely continue to be involved in a variety of litigation arising out of our business operations and acquisitions. From time to time, we may be involved in a variety of litigation, claims or legal action arising out of our business operations or acquisitions. In recent years we have been the target of various lawsuits, ranging from ordinary disputes brought by counterparties with whom we have done business to suits brought by class action firms alleging business practices that are unfair to consumers. Any claims asserted, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation and may cause us to incur significant expense. Our insurance coverage may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance coverage in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may incur impairments to goodwill. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.3 billion recorded as goodwill. We evaluate goodwill for impairment, at least annually during the second quarter, of the fiscal year. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the decline in the market price of our common stock, or reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business could result in impairments to goodwill. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. We operate in competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. If our analysis results in impairment to goodwill, we would be required to record an impairment charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 