Item 1A. Risk Factors Recent Market, Legislative and Regulatory Events Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than two years at unprecedented levels. In many cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and national recession. The market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. Domestic and international equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, automobile and credit markets particularly affected. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and also because we are dependent upon customer behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances, and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme and prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The economic slowdown has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of the EESA and the ARRA that could further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the EESA into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to utilize up to $700 billion to purchase distressed assets from financial institutions or infuse capital into financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The U.S. Treasury announced the CPP under the EESA pursuant to which it has purchased and will continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, including the CPP and the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Repurchase Program, will have on the financial markets or on us. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents The federal government, Federal Reserve Board and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions, failure and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, lending or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor or counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Losses related to these credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) premiums in the future. During 2008 and 2009, bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the DIF. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs in 2008 to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks through December 31, 2009: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest bearing transactional accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage). These programs have placed additional stress on the DIF. On May 20, 2009, the FDIC extended the $250,000 per customer insurance limit through December 31, 2013. On January 1, 2014, the standard insurance amount will return to $100,000 per depositor for all accounts except for certain retirement accounts which will remain insured up to $250,000 per depositor. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, on October 16, 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the DIF over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. To implement the restoration plan, the FDIC changed both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. For the first quarter of 2009 only, the FDIC increased all FDIC deposit assessment rates by seven basis points. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC amended the restoration plan to extend the restoration plan horizon to seven years. The amended restoration plan was accompanied by a final rule on March 4, 2009, which adjusted how the risk-based assessment system differentiates for risk and that set new assessment rates. Under the final rule, base assessment rates for insured depository institutions increased substantially beginning April 1, 2009. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC Board of Directors adopted a final rule that imposed a special assessment on all insured depository institutions, which was collected on September 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 13-quarter prepayment of FDIC premiums. The prepayment was due December 30, 2009, and is an estimated prepayment for the fourth quarter of 2009 through the fourth quarter of 2012. Susquehanna is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, Susquehanna may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Additionally, the FDIC may make material changes to the calculation of the prepaid assessment from the current proposal. Any future changes in the calculation or assessment of FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on Susquehanna’s results of operations, financial condition and our ability to continue to pay dividends on its common shares at the current rate or at all. 15 Table of Contents Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company’s business and require us to raise additional capital. In addition to the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program announced in the fall of 2008, the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC have taken further steps to support and regulate the financial services industry, that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. Also, the U.S. Congress, through the EESA and the ARRA, has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of financial services firms participating in the federal programs. These programs subject us and other financial institutions who participate in them to additional restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs; and compensation restrictions that may limit our ability to attract and retain executives, each of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. Our regulators or business plans may cause us to raise additional capital, but that capital may be expensive or may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital levels will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may choose to raise additional capital to support our continued internal growth or acquisition strategy, including, without limitation, FDIC-assisted transactions, or to redeem or repurchase the securities issued to the U.S. Treasury in our TARP transaction. It is likely any capital raising transaction will include the issuance of common stock or a combination of common stock and other form of tier 1 qualifying capital. Our ability to raise additional capital and the specific type of securities issued will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our results of operation and financial condition. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. 16 Table of Contents Geographic concentration in one market may unfavorably impact our operations. Substantially all of our business is with customers located within Pennsylvania, Maryland, and New Jersey and our operations are heavily concentrated in the Mid-Atlantic region. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in this market could: • increase loan delinquencies; • increase problem assets and foreclosures; • increase claims and lawsuits; • decrease the demand for our products and services; and • decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with nonperforming loans and collateral coverage. Generally, we make loans to small to mid-sized businesses whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and performance. For example, we place substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for our loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of our loans inadequately collateralized. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings could be adversely affected. A prolonged recession, especially one affecting our geographic market areas, could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits and demand for financial products, such as loans. We are in uncertain economic times, including uncertainty with respect to volatile financial markets. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our geographic markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A prolonged economic downturn would likely contribute to the deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. If the current economic downturn in the economy as a whole, or in our geographic market areas, continues for a prolonged period, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled or at all. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. A prolonged economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that could materially and adversely affect our business. A further decline in the economic environment could lead to a decline in our operations and financial performance which could result in a decline in the implied fair value of goodwill. If the fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value, we would recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge. Business and Industry Risks We may not be able to continue to grow our business, which may adversely impact our results of operations. Our total assets have grown from approximately $7.5 billion at December 31, 2005, to $13.7 billion at December 31, 2009. Our business strategy calls for continued expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new branch locations, successfully attract deposits, identify favorable loan and investment opportunities, and acquire other bank and non-bank entities. In the event that we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to grow successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund this growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. Our issuance of securities to the U.S. Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to the holders of our common stock. In connection with our sale of $300 million of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, no par value per share (“Preferred Stock”) to the U.S. Treasury on December 12, 2008, we also issued to the U.S. Treasury a warrant to purchase approximately 3,028,264 shares of our common stock. The terms of the transaction with the U.S. Treasury will result in limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. Until December 12, 2011 or until the U.S. Treasury no longer holds any shares of the Preferred Stock, we will not be able to increase dividends above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008, as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction nor repurchase any of our other securities without the approval of the U.S. Treasury, with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. We are reviewing alternatives to redeem the Preferred Stock and repurchase the warrants issued to the U.S. Treasury. However, we do not expect to redeem all of the Preferred Stock and repurchase all of the warrants issued to the U.S. Treasury until our non-performing asset generation has stabilized. Any redemption of Preferred Stock and repurchase of warrants is subject to regulatory approval. We can make no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive such approval. Until such time as we redeem all of the Preferred Stock, we will remain subject to the respective terms and conditions set forth in the agreements we entered into with the U.S. Treasury. In addition, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments on the Preferred Stock. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are required to pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in dividends on the Preferred Stock could have a negative effect on our liquidity. Loss of certain key officers would adversely affect our business. Our future operating results are substantially dependent on the continued service of William J. Reuter, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Eddie L. Dunklebarger, our President and Chief Operating Officer; Drew K. Hostetter, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Michael M. Quick, our Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Credit Officer, and Bernard A. Francis, Jr., our Senior Vice President and Group Executive. The loss of the services of Messrs. Reuter, Dunklebarger, Hostetter, Quick and Francis would have a negative impact on our business because of their expertise and years of industry experience. In addition, the loss of the services of Mr. Reuter would have a negative impact on our business because of his leadership, business development skills and community involvement. We do not maintain key man life insurance on Messrs. Reuter, Dunklebarger, Hostetter, Quick or Francis. Our exposure to credit risk, because we focus on commercial lending, could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of a loan backed by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. 18 Table of Contents Commercial loans, including commercial real estate, are generally viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Our consolidated commercial lending operations include commercial, financial and agricultural lending, real estate construction lending, and commercial mortgage lending, which comprised 21.0%, 11.3% and 31.1% of our total loan portfolio, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Construction financing typically involves a higher degree of credit risk than commercial mortgage lending. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely on the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction compared to the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimated property value proves to be inaccurate, the loan may be inadequately collateralized. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial loans, and construction loans, the deterioration of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could cause an increase in loan charge-offs and a corresponding increase in the provision for loan losses, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan and lease losses, our earnings would decrease. In an attempt to mitigate any loan and lease losses that we may incur, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience, and delinquency trends. However, we cannot predict loan and lease losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. If charge-offs exceed our allowance, our earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Factors that require an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses could reduce our earnings. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates, and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce our net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events, investor and consumer demand and changes in the United States and other financial markets. 19 Table of Contents We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest- rate-sensitive assets and interest-rate-sensitive liabilities. However, interest-rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. Adverse business conditions in our vehicle leasing subsidiary could adversely affect our financial performance. Through our subsidiary, Boston Service Company, Inc. (t/a Hann Financial Service Corp.), we are involved in the vehicle leasing business. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, Hann suffered a decrease in its vehicle origination, servicing, and securitization fees, due primarily to decreased lease origination volumes. We believe that the reduction in volume principally resulted from the downturn in the economy and special financing offers provided by the major automobile manufacturers. If the downturn in the economy and these special financing offers were to continue in 2010, our financial performance could continue to be negatively impacted. Additionally, in 2005, vehicle residual value expense at Hann increased significantly based upon service agreements with Auto Lenders Liquidation Center, Inc., a third party residual value guarantor. Under the terms of these servicing agreements, vehicle residual value expense was substantially less in 2009. For 2010 and 2011, vehicle residual value expense should remain the same as 2009. For 2012, vehicle residual expense should be less than 2011. Beyond 2012, vehicle residual value expense could once again increase depending upon used vehicle market conditions. If this were to happen, it could have a negative impact on our financial performance after 2012. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability. Our banking subsidiary faces substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that our banking subsidiary originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, our bank subsidiary faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. Our banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over our banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial service institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. Government regulation significantly affects our business. The banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders. As a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiary, as of December 31, 2009, is also regulated and supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and is subject to regulation and supervision by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. Several of these non-bank subsidiaries engage in providing investment management and insurance brokerage services, industries which are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. In addition, changes in laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the financial service industry may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. Such changes may adversely affect us, including our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and leases and achieve satisfactory spreads, and may also result in the imposition of additional costs on us. As a public company, we are also subject to the corporate governance standards set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as any applicable rules or regulations promulgated by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. Complying with these standards, rules and regulations may impose administrative costs and burdens on us. The Pennsylvania business corporation law and various anti-takeover provisions under our articles of incorporation could impede the takeover of the company. Various Pennsylvania laws affecting business corporations may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire Susquehanna, even if the acquisition would be advantageous to shareholders. In addition, we have various anti-takeover measures in place under our articles of incorporation. Any one or more of these measures may impede the takeover of Susquehanna without the approval of our board of directors and may prevent our shareholders from taking part in a transaction in which they could realize a premium over the current market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 