ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Exchange Rates The Company is exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates. RCM’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates to operations in Canada, principally conducted through its Canadian subsidiary. Exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. dollar value of reported earnings derived from the Canadian operations as well as the carrying value of the Company’s investment in the net assets related to these operations. The Company does not engage in hedging activities with respect to foreign operations. Trademarks Management believes the RCM Technologies, Inc. name is extremely valuable and important to its business. The Company endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights and maintain certain trademarks, trade names, service marks and other intellectual property rights, including The Source of Smart Solutions®. The Company is not currently aware of any infringing uses or other conditions that would be reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the Company’s use of its proprietary rights. The Company’s success depends on its ability to successfully obtain and maintain, and prevent misappropriation or infringement of, its intellectual property, maintain trade secret protection, and conduct operations without violating or infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, and it is often difficult, if not impossible, to predict the outcome of such litigation. If the Company is involved in an intellectual property litigation, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Data Center Capacity and Telecommunication Links Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), card key access, fire suppression, and environmental control systems protect RCM’s datacenter. All systems are monitored on a 24/7 basis with alerting capabilities via voice or email. The telecommunications architecture at RCM utilizes managed private circuits from AT&T, which encompasses provisioning redundancy and diversity. The Company’s ability to protect its data center against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters is critical to business operations. In order to provide many of its services, RCM must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company’s data centers or any failure of the Company’s telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet its customers’ needs and their confidence in utilizing the Company for future services. RCM’s ability to protect its data, provide services and safeguard its installations, as it relates to the IT infrastructure, is in part dependent on several outside vendors with whom the Company maintains service level agreements. Litigation The Company is currently, and may in the future become, involved in legal proceedings and claims arising from time to time in the course of its business. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could have an adverse impact on the consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations and cash flows of the Company. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 