ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) Trademarks Management believes the RCM Technologies, Inc. name is extremely valuable and important to its business. The Company endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights and maintain certain trademarks, trade names, service marks and other intellectual property rights, including The Source of Smart Solutions®. The Company is not currently aware of any infringing uses or other conditions that would be reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the Company's use of its proprietary rights. Data Center Capacity and Telecommunication Links Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), card key access, fire suppression, and environmental control systems protect RCM’s datacenter. All systems are monitored on a 24/7 basis with alerting capabilities via voice or email. The telecommunications architecture at RCM utilizes managed private circuits from AT&T, which encompasses provisioning redundancy and diversity. RCM’s ability to protect its data center against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters is critical to business operations. In order to provide many of its services, RCM must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company’s data centers or any failure of the Company’s telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect RCM’s ability to meet its customers’ needs and their confidence in utilizing RCM for future services. RCM’s ability to protect its data, provide services and safeguard its installations, as it relates to the IT infrastructure, is in part dependent on several outside vendors with whom the Company maintains service level agreements. Litigation The Company is currently, and may in the future become, involved in legal proceedings and claims arising from time to time in the course of its business, including the litigation described in Note 17 (Contingencies) to the consolidated financial statements. An adverse outcome to the referenced litigation or other cases arising in the future could have an adverse impact on the consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations of the Company. 17 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 