ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Improper Activities of Our Temporary Professionals Could Result in Damage to Our Business Reputation, Discontinuation of Our Client Relationships and Exposure to Liability (Continued) Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our temporary professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Furthermore, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Integration of Acquisitions The Company reviews prospective acquisitions as an element of its growth strategy. The failure to successfully integrate any future acquisition may divert management's attention from its core operations or could negatively affect the Company's ability to meet the needs of its customers promptly. Goodwill and Intangible Impairments May Have an Adverse Effect on our Results of Operations The Company recorded a write down of $2.2 million in 2004 related to impairment of goodwill. As of December 30, 2006, we had $40.0 million of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, which represents 40.0% of our total assets. This amount primarily represents the remaining excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. If we are required to further write down goodwill, the related charge could materially reduce reported net income or result in a net loss for the period in which the write down occurs. Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Exchange Rates The Company is exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates. RCM's exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates to operations in Canada principally conducted through its Canadian subsidiary. Exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. dollar value of reported earnings derived from the Canadian operations as well as the carrying value of our investment in the net assets related to these operations. The Company does not engage in hedging activities with respect to foreign operations. Litigation The Company is currently, and may in the future become, involved in legal proceedings and claims arising from time to time in the course of its business, including the litigation described in Note 15 (Contingencies) to the financials statements. An adverse outcome to the referenced litigation or other cases arising in the future could have an adverse impact on the financial position and results of operations of the Company. Data Center Capacity and Telecommunication Links Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), card key access, fire suppression, and environmental control systems protect RCM's datacenter. All systems are monitored on a 24/7 basis with alerting capabilities via voice or email. The telecommunications architecture at RCM utilizes a managed solution from AT&T, which encompasses redundancy, with the incorporation of shadow circuits and backup devices, and diversity, with circuits provisioned from different geographical locations and high availability failover VPN tunnels across locations. RCM's ability to protect its data centers against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of its services, RCM must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company's data centers or any failure of the Company's telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect RCM's ability to meet its customers' needs and their confidence in utilizing RCM for future services. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Not applicable. 