ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond its control. The risk and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Management believes that the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: Economic Trends The recent global economic crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. Any or all of these developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund capital spending programs, new product launches or other similar activities on which they might otherwise use us, and therefore delay, decrease or cancel purchases or our services or not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased services. In addition, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities. Government Regulations Staffing firms and employment service providers are generally subject to one or more of the following types of government regulation: (1) regulation of the employer/employee relationship between a firm and its employees, including tax withholding or reporting, social security or retirement, benefits, workplace compliance, wage and hour, anti-discrimination, immigration and workers’ compensation; (2) registration, licensing, record keeping and reporting requirements; and (3) federal contractor compliance. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in the Company incurring penalties and other liabilities, monetary and otherwise. Highly Competitive Business The staffing services and outsourcing markets are highly competitive and have limited barriers to entry. RCM competes in global, national, regional, and local markets with numerous temporary staffing and permanent placement companies. Price competition in the staffing industry is significant and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. In addition, there is increasing pressure on companies to outsource certain areas of their business to low cost offshore outsourcing firms. RCM expects that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit RCM’s ability to maintain or increase its market share or profitability. Events Affecting our Significant Customers As disclosed in Item 1, “Business,” our five, ten and twenty largest customers accounted for approximately 27.1%, 33.5% and 44.0%, respectively, of our revenues for 2008. Some of these customers may be affected by the current state of the economy or developments in the credit markets. For example, United Technologies, which accounted for 11.1% of the Company’s revenues in 2008, announced on March 10, 2009 that it had reduced its 2009 profit forecast 13 % and will eliminate 11,600 jobs, or 5% of its global work force. In addition, our customers may engage in mergers or similar transactions; for example, Wyeth recently announced that it expects to be acquired by Pfizer, and Schering Plough, recently announced that it expects to be acquired by Merck. Should any of our significant customers experience a downturn in its business that weakens its financial condition or merge with another company or otherwise cease independent operation, it is possible that the business that the customer does with us would be reduced or eliminated, which could adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, the Company estimates to its best ability that the automobile and financial services industries each represented approximately 3.7% or 7.5% combined of the Company’s total revenues in 2008. The automobile and financial services industries are two industries that have been severely impacted by recent national and global economic malaise. 14 Table of Contents Dependence Upon Personnel The Company’s operations depend on the continued efforts of its officers and other executive management. The loss of key officers and members of executive management may cause a significant disruption to the Company’s business. RCM also depends on the performance and productivity of its local managers and field personnel. The Company’s ability to attract and retain new business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of key managers and field personnel may also jeopardize existing client relationships with businesses that continue to use our services based upon past relationships with local managers and field personnel. Revolving Credit Facility and Liquidity If we are unable to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our liquidity depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations and, from time to time, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility with our agent lender Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania. The Company believes that Citizens Bank is liquid and is not aware of any current risk that they will become illiquid. At December 27, 2008, we had outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility of $4.9 million, and letters of credit outstanding for $1.6 million. The Revolving Credit Facility contains various financial and non-financial covenants. At December 27, 2008, we were in compliance with the covenants and other provisions of the Credit Facility. Any failure to be in compliance could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill and Intangible Impairments May Have an Adverse Effect on our Financial Statements As of December 27, 2008, we had $6.5 million of goodwill and $0.3 million intangible assets on our balance sheet, which represents 8.6% of our total assets. Goodwill represents the premium paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets we have acquired in business combinations. SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”) requires the Company to perform a goodwill and intangible asset impairment test on at least an annual basis. Application of the goodwill and intangible asset impairment test requires significant judgments including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for the businesses, the useful life over which cash flows will occur and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or conclusions on goodwill and intangible asset impairment for each reporting unit. The Company conducts its annual goodwill and intangible asset impairment test as of the last day of the Company’s fiscal November each year, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We periodically analyze whether any such indicators of impairment exist. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include a sustained, significant decline in our share price and market capitalization, a decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, unanticipated competition and/or slower than expected growth rates, among others. The Company compares the fair value of each of its reporting units to their respective carrying values, including related goodwill and intangible assets. Future changes in our industries could impact the results of future annual impairment tests. There can be no assurance that future tests of goodwill and intangible asset impairment will not result in impairment charges. If we are required to write down goodwill or intangible assets, the related charge could materially reduce reported net income or result in a net loss for the period in which the write down occurs. Workers’ Compensation and Employee Medical Insurance The Company self-insures a portion of the exposure for losses related to workers’ compensation and employees’ medical insurance. The Company has established reserves for workers’ compensation and employee medical insurance claims based on historical loss statistics and periodic independent actuarial valuations. Significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Company’s future financial results. 15 Table of Contents Improper Activities of Our Temporary Professionals Could Result in Damage to Our Business Reputation, Discontinuation of Our Client Relationships and Exposure to Liability The Company may be subject to claims by our clients related to errors and omissions, misuse of proprietary information, discrimination and harassment, theft and other criminal activity, malpractice, and other claims stemming from the improper activities or alleged activities of our temporary professionals. There can be no assurance that our current liability insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available in sufficient amounts to cover damages or other costs associated with such claims. Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our temporary professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Furthermore, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Our Acquisitions May Not Succeed The Company reviews prospective acquisitions as an element of its growth strategy. The failure of any acquisition to meet the Company’s expectations, whether due to a failure to successfully integrate any future acquisition or otherwise, may result in damage to the Company’s financial performance and/or divert management’s attention from its core operations or could negatively affect the Company’s ability to meet the needs of its customers promptly. Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Exchange Rates The Company is exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates. RCM’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates to operations in Canada, principally conducted through its Canadian subsidiary. Exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. dollar value of reported earnings derived from the Canadian operations as well as the carrying value of our investment in the net assets related to these operations. The Company does not engage in hedging activities with respect to foreign operations. Trademarks Management believes the RCM Technologies, Inc. name is extremely valuable and important to its business. The Company endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights and maintain certain trademarks, trade names, service marks and other intellectual property rights, including The Source of Smart Solutions®. The Company is not currently aware of any infringing uses or other conditions that would be reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect our use of our proprietary rights. Data Center Capacity and Telecommunication Links Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), card key access, fire suppression, and environmental control systems protect RCM’s datacenter. All systems are monitored on a 24/7 basis with alerting capabilities via voice or email. The telecommunications architecture at RCM utilizes managed private circuits from AT&T, which encompasses provisioning redundancy and diversity. RCM’s ability to protect its data center against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters is critical to business operations. In order to provide many of its services, RCM must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company’s data centers or any failure of the Company’s telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect RCM’s ability to meet its customers’ needs and their confidence in utilizing RCM for future services. RCM’s ability to protect its data, provide services and safeguard its installations, as it relates to the IT infrastructure, is in part dependent on several outside vendors with whom the Company maintains service level agreements. 16 Table of Contents Accrued Bonuses The Company pays bonuses to certain executive management, field management and corporate employees based on, or after giving consideration to, a variety of financial performance measures. Executive management, field management, and certain corporate employees’ bonuses are accrued throughout the year for payment during the first quarter of the following year, based in part upon actual annual results as compared to annual budgets. Variances in actual results versus budgeted amounts can have a significant impact on the calculations and therefore the estimates of the required accruals. Accordingly, the actual earned bonuses may be materially different from the estimates used to determine the quarterly accruals. Litigation The Company is currently, and may in the future become, involved in legal proceedings and claims arising from time to time in the course of its business, including the litigation described in Note 15 (Contingencies) to the consolidated financial statements. An adverse outcome to the referenced litigation or other cases arising in the future could have an adverse impact on the consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 