Item 1A. Risk Factors Recent Market, Legislative and Regulatory Events Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have experienced extended volatility and disruption. In many cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and national recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage-and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. Domestic and international equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, automobile and credit markets particularly affected. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and also because we are dependent upon customer behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances, and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme and prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The economic slowdown has resulted in legislative and regulatory actions including the enactment of the EESA, the AARA and the Dodd-Frank Act that will further impact our business. In addition, we cannot predict whether there will be additional legislative or regulatory actions, when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and failure of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or other 15 Table of Contents institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Losses related to these credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums in the future. During 2009 and continuing through 2010, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the DIF. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs in 2008 to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks. Under these temporary programs, through December 31, 2009 deposit accounts were insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest bearing transactional accounts were fully insured (unlimited coverage). These programs placed additional stress on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by 7 cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes beginning April 1, 2009, which required riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC Board of Directors adopted a final rule that imposed a special assessment on all insured depository institutions, which was collected on September 30, 2009. The final rule also permitted the FDIC to impose additional special assessments after June 30, 2009 but prior to December 31, 2009, if necessary, to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC Board of Directors adopted a notice of proposed rulemaking and request for comment that would require insured depository institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and full years 2010 through 2012 on December 29, 2009. This action was taken in connection with the adoption of an Amended Restoration Plan to meet immediate liquidity needs and return the DIF to its federally mandated level, without imposing additional special assessments. The final rule, adopted by the FDIC on November 12, 2009, imposed a 13-quarter prepayment of FDIC premiums. The prepayment was an estimated prepayment for the fourth quarter of 2009 through the fourth quarter of 2012 and was paid December 30, 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance to $250,000 per account, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the DIF, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, removes the statutory cap for the reserve ratio, leaving the FDIC free to set this cap going forward, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Additionally, the FDIC may make material changes to the calculation of the prepaid assessment from the current proposal. Any future changes in the calculation or assessment of FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. 16 Table of Contents Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect our business and require us to raise additional capital. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to various requirements and restrictions under the Dodd-Frank Act, regardless of our participation in federal programs. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules permitting stockholders to nominate candidates using a company’s proxy materials and requires that listed companies implement and disclose “clawback” policies for recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes and directs various agencies to promulgate new rules and regulations, the impact of which we cannot predict with any certainty. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. In addition, the new, yet to be written implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as any proposals for new legislation that are introduced in the U.S. Congress, could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending, future and certain newly-enacted legislation or regulation, or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital, require us to invest significant management attention and resources and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. Our future growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act sets a statutory floor for risk-based and leverage capital standards. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. We anticipate that our current capital levels will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. A prolonged recession, especially one affecting our geographic market areas, could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits and demand for financial products, such as loans. 17 Table of Contents We are in uncertain economic times, including uncertainty with respect to volatile financial markets. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our geographic markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A prolonged economic downturn would likely contribute to the deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. If the current economic downturn in the economy as a whole, or in our geographic market areas, continues for a prolonged period, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled or at all. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. A prolonged economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that could materially and adversely affect our business. A further decline in the economic environment could lead to a decline in our operations, as well as other factors, and could result in a decline in the implied fair value of goodwill. If the fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value, we many recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge. Business and Industry Risks We may not be able to continue to grow our business, which may adversely impact our results of operations. Our total assets have grown from approximately $8.2 billion at December 31, 2006, to $14.0 billion at December 31, 2010. Our business strategy calls for continued expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new branch locations, successfully attract deposits, identify favorable loan and investment opportunities, and acquire other bank and non-bank entities. In the event that we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund this growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. Geographic concentration in one market may unfavorably impact our operations. Substantially all of our business is with customers located within Pennsylvania, Maryland, and New Jersey, and our operations are heavily concentrated in the Mid-Atlantic region. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in this market could: • increase loan delinquencies; • increase problem assets and foreclosures; • increase claims and lawsuits; • decrease the demand for our products and services; and • decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with nonperforming loans and collateral coverage. Generally, we make loans to small to mid-sized businesses whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and performance. For example, we place substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for our loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of our loans inadequately collateralized. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Loss of certain key officers would adversely affect our business. Our future operating results are substantially dependent on the continued service of William J. Reuter, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Eddie L. Dunklebarger, our President and Vice Chairman; Gregory A. Duncan, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Drew K. Hostetter, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Michael M. Quick, our Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Credit Officer; and Bernard A. Francis, Jr., our Senior Vice President and Group Executive. The loss of the services of Messrs. Reuter, Dunklebarger, Duncan, Hostetter, Quick and Francis would have a negative impact on our business because of their expertise and years of industry experience. In addition, the loss of the services of Mr. Reuter would have a negative impact on our business because of his leadership, business development skills and community involvement. We do not maintain key man life insurance on Messrs. Reuter, Dunklebarger, Duncan, Hostetter, Quick or Francis. Our exposure to credit risk, because we focus on commercial lending, could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of a loan backed by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Commercial loans, including commercial real estate, are generally viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Our consolidated commercial lending operations include commercial, financial and agricultural lending, real estate construction lending, and commercial mortgage lending, which comprised 18.9%, 9.1% and 31.0% of our total loan portfolio, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. Construction financing typically involves a higher degree of credit risk than commercial mortgage lending. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely on the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction compared to the estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimated property value proves to be inaccurate, the loan may be inadequately collateralized. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial loans, and construction loans, the deterioration of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could cause an increase in loan charge-offs and a corresponding increase in the provision for loan losses, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan and lease losses, our earnings would decrease. In an attempt to mitigate any loan and lease losses that we may incur, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience, and delinquency trends. However, we cannot predict loan and lease losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. If charge-offs exceed our allowance, our earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Factors that require an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses, such as a prolonged economic downturn or continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could reduce our earnings. 19 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates, and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce our net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events, and changes in the United States and other financial markets. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest- rate-sensitive assets and interest-rate-sensitive liabilities. However, interest-rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability. Our banking subsidiary faces substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that our banking subsidiary originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, our bank subsidiary faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. Our banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over our banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial service institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete. Government regulation significantly affects our business. The banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders. As a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiary, as of December 31, 2010, is also regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and is subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. Several of these non-bank subsidiaries engage in providing investment management and insurance brokerage services, industries which are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. In addition, newly enacted and amended laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the financial service industry may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. Such changes may adversely affect us, including our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and leases and achieve satisfactory spreads, and may also result in the imposition of additional costs on us. As a public company, we are also subject to the corporate governance standards set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as any applicable rules or regulations promulgated by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. Complying with these existing and any newly enacted standards, rules and regulations may impose administrative costs and burdens on us. The Pennsylvania business corporation law and various anti-takeover provisions under our articles of incorporation could impede the takeover of the company. Various Pennsylvania laws affecting business corporations may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire Susquehanna, even if the acquisition would be advantageous to shareholders. In addition, we have various anti-takeover measures in place under our articles of incorporation. Any one or more of these measures may impede the takeover of Susquehanna without the approval of our board of directors and may prevent our shareholders from taking part in a transaction in which they could realize a premium over the current market price of our common stock. Risks relating to our Shareholders in Connection with the Merger Changes in the price of our common stock prior to completion of the Merger may require that we adjust the “exchange ratio,” which would have an incremental dilutive effect on the ownership interests of each Susquehanna shareholder in the combined company following the Merger. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of Abington common stock outstanding immediately prior to the Merger will be converted into the right to receive a number of shares of Susquehanna common stock equal to an “Exchange Ratio.” At the time the Merger Agreement was signed, the Exchange Ratio was set at 1.32. 21 Table of Contents If the average closing price of Susquehanna common stock for the twenty consecutive trading days ending on the fifth day immediately prior to the closing date is less than $7.90 (representing a 20% decline from a starting price of $9.88) and if the decline on a percentage basis in the average closing price of Susquehanna common stock from $9.88 is at least 20% more than the change in the Nasdaq Bank Index (as measured by comparing its closing price on January 26, 2011, the date of the Merger Agreement, to the closing price on the date of measurement), referred to herein as a threshold decline in the Susquehanna stock price, Abington will have the right to terminate the Merger Agreement. If Abington provides notice that it has elected to exercise this termination right, Susquehanna may increase the Exchange Ratio so that the aforementioned conditions would not be triggered, and the Merger Agreement will remain in effect. Any such adjustment to the Exchange Ratio would increase the total number of shares of Susquehanna common stock issued to Abington shareholders, which would have a dilutive effect on the relative ownership interest of each Susquehanna shareholder in the combined company. Accordingly, at the time of our Annual Meeting, our shareholders will not be able to assess whether and to what extent Susquehanna common stock issued in the Merger will impact their relative holdings in the combined company following the Merger. The required regulatory approvals and filings may not be obtained or completed, may delay the date of completion of the Merger or may contain materially burdensome conditions. Susquehanna and Abington will be required to complete and obtain regulatory approval with respect to certain filings and/or applications regarding the Merger. These approvals and filings may include, among other items, applications and notices filed with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, filings and approvals under the securities or “Blue Sky” laws of various states, approval of the listing of Susquehanna’s common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, approval of the Merger by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and/or related filings pursuant to the Pennsylvania Banking Code, as amended, and such other relevant filings, registrations, authorizations or approvals as may be required by a governmental or regulatory entity. Such filings and approvals must be completed prior to effecting the Merger. Susquehanna and Abington have agreed to use their reasonable best efforts to complete these filings and obtain these approvals; however, satisfying any requirements of regulatory agencies may delay the date of completion of the Merger or such approval may not be obtained at all. In addition, you should be aware that, as in any transaction, it is possible that, among other things, restrictions on Susquehanna after the Merger may be sought by governmental agencies as a condition to obtaining the required regulatory approvals and these conditions could be materially burdensome to Susquehanna following the closing of the Merger. We cannot assure you as to whether these regulatory approvals will be received, the timing of the approvals or whether any conditions will be imposed. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our shares reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed; • costs relating to the Merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and, in specified circumstances, termination fees, must be paid even if the Merger is not completed; and • the diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day business operations and the potential disruption to our employees and business relationships during the period before the completion of the Merger may make it difficult to regain financial and market positions if the Merger does not occur. Susquehanna and Abington will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending. Uncertainties about the effect of the Merger on our and Abington’s businesses may have an adverse effect on each company. These uncertainties may also impair Abington’s ability to attract, retain and motivate strategic 22 Table of Contents personnel until the Merger is consummated, and could cause Abington’s customers and others that deal with Abington to seek to change existing business relationship, which could negatively impact Susquehanna upon consummation of the Merger. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us from taking certain specified actions without Abington’s consent until the Merger is consummated. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing or taking advantage of attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. Risks Relating to Combined Operations Following the Merger Susquehanna may fail to realize the cost savings estimated for the Merger. The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on Susquehanna’s ability to realize the estimated cost savings from combining Abington’s business with ours. Our management estimated at the time the proposed Merger was announced that it expects to achieve total cost savings of approximately $8.1 million, 50% of which is expected to be achieved in 2011 through the reduction of administrative and operational redundancies. While we continue to believe these cost savings estimates are achievable as of the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it is possible that the potential cost savings could turn out to be more difficult to achieve than originally anticipated. The cost savings estimates also depend on the ability to combine the businesses of Susquehanna and Abington in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If the estimates of Susquehanna and Abington turn out to be incorrect or we are not able to successfully combine with Abington, the anticipated cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Unanticipated costs relating to the Merger could reduce Susquehanna’s future earnings per share. We believe that we have reasonably estimated the likely incremental costs of the combined operations of Susquehanna and Abington following the Merger. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses such as unanticipated costs to integrate the two businesses, increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of Susquehanna following the Merger. In addition, if actual costs are materially different than expected costs, the Merger could have a significant dilutive effect on our earnings per share. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 