ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED) Data Center Capacity and Telecommunication Links Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), card key access, fire suppression, and environmental control systems protect RCM’s datacenter. All systems are monitored on a 24/7 basis with alerting capabilities via voice or email. The telecommunications architecture at RCM utilizes managed private circuits from AT&T, which encompasses provisioning redundancy and diversity. The Company’s ability to protect its data center against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters is critical to business operations. In order to provide many of its services, RCM must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company’s data centers or any failure of the Company’s telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet its customers’ needs and their confidence in utilizing the Company for future services. RCM’s ability to protect its data, provide services and safeguard its installations, as it relates to the IT infrastructure, is in part dependent on several outside vendors with whom the Company maintains service level agreements. Cyber Security We are highly dependent on information technology systems to operate our business. A breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such information. Additionally, we outsource certain elements of our information technology systems to third parties. As a result of this outsourcing, our third party vendors may or could have access to our confidential information making such systems vulnerable. Data breaches of our information technology systems, or those of our third party vendors, may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and information technology systems, and have been informed by our third party vendors that they have as well, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems, or those of our third party vendors, that could adversely affect our business. Litigation The Company is currently, and may in the future become, involved in legal proceedings and claims arising from time to time in the course of its business. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could have an adverse impact on the consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations and cash flows of the Company. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 