Risk Factors The Company's business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond its control. The risk and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Management believes that the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: Economic Trends The Company's growth and earnings prospects are influenced by broad economic trends. The pace of customer capital spending programs, new product launches and similar activities have a direct impact on the need for temporary and permanent employees. The Company believes that its fiscal discipline and strategic focus on targeted vertical markets provides some insulation from adverse trends. However, further declines in the economy would adversely affect the Company's operating performance and could result in the need for future cost reductions or changes in strategy. Government Regulations Changes in government regulations could result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of new or additional benefits, licensing or tax requirements with respect to the provision of employment services that may reduce RCM's future earnings. Highly Competitive Business The staffing services and outsourcing markets are highly competitive and have limited barriers to entry. RCM competes in global, national, regional and local markets with numerous temporary staffing and permanent placement companies. Price competition in the staffing industry is significant and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. In addition, there is increasing pressure on companies to outsource certain areas of their business to low cost offshore outsourcing firms. RCM expects that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit RCM's ability to maintain or increase its market share or profitability. 11 ITEM 1. BUSINESS (CONTINUED) Dependence Upon Personnel The Company's operations depend on the continued efforts of its officers and other executive management. The loss of key officers and members of executive management may cause a significant disruption to the Company's business. RCM also depends on the performance and productivity of its local managers and field personnel. The Company's ability to attract and retain new business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of key managers and field personnel may also jeopardize existing client relationships with businesses that continue to use our services based upon past relationships with local managers and field personnel, which could cause future revenues to decline in that event. Improper Activities of Our Temporary Professionals Could Result in Damage to Our Business Reputation, Discontinuation of Our Client Relationships and Exposure to Liability ---------------------------------------------- The Company may be subject to possible claims by our clients related to errors and omissions, misuse of proprietary information, discrimination and harassment, theft and other criminal activity, malpractice, and other claims stemming from the improper activities or alleged activities of our temporary professionals. There can be no assurance that our current liability insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available in sufficient amounts to cover damages or other costs associated with such claims. Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our temporary professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Further, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Integration of Acquisitions The Company reviews prospective acquisitions as an element of its growth strategy. The failure to successfully integrate any future acquisition may divert management's attention from its core operations or could negatively affect the Company's ability to timely meet the needs of its customers. Goodwill Impairments May Have an Adverse Effect on our Results of Operations The Company recorded a write down of $2.2 million in 2004 related to impairment of goodwill. As of January 1, 2005, we had $35.8 million of goodwill on our balance sheet, which represented 36.8% of our total assets. This amount primarily represents the remaining excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. If we are required to further write down goodwill, the related charge could materially reduce reported net income or result in a net loss for the period in which the write down occurs. Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Exchange Rates The Company is exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates. RCM's exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates to operations in Canada principally conducted through its Canadian subsidiary. Exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. dollar value of reported earnings derived from the Canadian operations as well as the carrying value of our investment in the net assets related to these operations. The Company does not engage in hedging activities with respect to foreign operations. Data Center Capacity and Telecommunication Links The Company's ability to protect its data centers against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of its services, RCM must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company's data centers or any failure of the Company's telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect RCM's ability to meet its customers' needs and their confidence in utilizing RCM for future services. 12 ITEM 1. BUSINESS (CONTINUED) Access to Company Information RCM Technologies, Inc. electronically files its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any of the reports that are filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxies, information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. RCM Technologies, Inc. makes available, free of charge, through its website or by responding to requests addressed to the Company's Corporate Secretary, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed by the Company with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's website is http://www.rcmt.com. The information contained on the Company's website, or on other websites linked to the Company's website, is not part of this document. Reference herein to the Company's website is an inactive text reference only. The Company is a Nevada corporation organized in 1971. The address of its principal executive office is 2500 McClellan Avenue, Suite 350, Pennsauken, NJ 08109-4613. 