Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. Our operating results may vary significantly from year to year. Our results may be materially and adversely affected by: •the timing and volume of work under contract; •regional and general economic conditions and the current condition of the financial markets; •the budgetary spending patterns of customers; •variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular reporting period; •a change in the demand for our services and increased costs of performance of our services caused by severe weather conditions; •increases in design and construction costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers; •the termination or expiration of existing agreements; •losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; •a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; •payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; •cost overruns on fixed-price and unit-price contracts; •availability of qualified labor for specific projects; •changes in bonding requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; and •costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular reporting period may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other reporting period. We are unable to predict the impact of economic conditions in the financial markets and the resulting constraints in obtaining financing on our business and financial results. Our principal sources of cash come from our operating activities and the availability of bank borrowings under our credit facility, which expires in 2012. Our credit facility contains numerous covenants and requires us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and other tests. General business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and other tests, which may limit our ability to borrow under the facility. Restrictions in the availability of credit could cause us to forgo otherwise attractive business opportunities and could require us to modify our business plan. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the overall condition of the financial markets; however, we can give no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing either on favorable terms or at all in the future. 14 Table of Contents Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to industry downturns and regional and national downturns, which may be amplified by the current economic conditions. The demand for infrastructure construction and maintenance services from our customers has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the industries we serve as well as the United States economy in general. If the general level of economic activity remains below historic norms, or if the economic activity in the regions that we serve remains below historic norms, financing conditions for our industry could be adversely affected and our customers may delay commencement of work on, or cancel, new projects or maintenance activity on existing projects or may outsource less work to contractors such as ourselves. A number of other factors, including financing conditions for the industry and customer financial conditions, could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures. As a result, demand for our services could decline substantially for extended periods, particularly during economic downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies as well as several large national and regional companies that may have financial, technological and sales resources that exceed our own. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into the C&I market and the distribution market. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors in those areas. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors, including our competitors in the transmission market, may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than ours. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the markets we serve or maintain our customer base at current levels. We also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. Electric power providers often employ personnel to internally perform some of the same types of services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future, and, if they bring certain projects in-house, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, increased spending on public projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) may also encourage additional competitors to enter the markets that we serve, resulting in increased competition and lower gross margins. We may be unsuccessful in generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: •attract new customers; •increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; •hire and retain qualified personnel; •successfully bid for new projects; and •adapt the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving construction needs. In addition, if our customers are constrained in their ability to obtain capital, it could reduce the number or size of projects available to us. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or 15 Table of Contents that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Many of our contracts may be canceled upon short notice and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if they are canceled or as they are completed or expire. Many of our customers have the ability to cancel their contracts with us on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under MSAs. Under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us. Many of our contracts, including our MSAs, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Backlog is difficult to determine accurately and different companies within our industry may define backlog differently. Additionally, most contracts, including MSAs, may be terminated on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but we typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. The timing of contract awards and duration of large new contracts can significantly affect backlog reporting. Given these factors and our method of calculating backlog, our backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period, and our backlog as of the end of a fiscal year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following fiscal year and should not be viewed or relied upon as a stand-alone indicator. Consequently, we cannot assure you as to our customers' requirements or our estimates. An inability to realize revenue from our backlog could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See "Item 1. Business—Backlog" for a discussion on how we calculate backlog for our business. Our business growth could outpace the capability of our internal infrastructure. Our internal infrastructure may not be adequate to support our operations as they expand, particularly if we are awarded a significant number of awards in a short time period. A large project may require hiring additional qualified personnel, such as engineers, project managers, field supervisors, linemen and safety personnel, the supply of which may not be sufficient to meet our demands. Often large transmission projects require specialized equipment. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for a project, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis or to find alternative ways to perform the work without the benefit of equipment ideally suited for the job, which could increase the costs of completing the project. Furthermore, we may be unable to buy or rent the specialty equipment and tooling we require due to the limited number of manufacturers and distributors in the marketplace. We often bid for work knowing that we will have to rent equipment on a short-term basis, and we include our assumptions of market equipment rental rates into our bid. If market rates for rental equipment increase between the time of bid submission and project execution, our margins for the project may be reduced. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance, which we generally provide through our own repair facilities. If we are unable to continue 16 Table of Contents to maintain the equipment in our fleet, we may be forced to obtain additional third-party repair services at a higher cost or be unable to bid on contracts. Larger projects may require stronger financial resources to meet the cash flow, bonding or letter of credit requirements imposed upon contractors by the customer. Future growth also could impose additional demands and responsibilities on members of our senior management. Failure to manage our growth effectively, particularly that caused by winning major awards, could result in delays in completing projects, with an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We require subcontractors to assist us in providing certain services and we depend on obtaining and retaining the necessary subcontractors to complete certain projects. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts and to manage workflow, particularly for design, engineering, procurement and some foundation work. Although we are not dependent upon any single subcontractor, general market conditions may limit the availability of subcontractors on which we rely to perform portions of our contracts, and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Successful completion of our contracts may depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. If our subcontractors fail to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be required to incur additional costs and provide additional services in order to make up such shortfall. Failure of our subcontractors to comply with the completion dates and quality standards contained in their contracts with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on suppliers to procure material for our projects. We rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials on certain projects. Demand for transmission products and services could strain production resources and thus could create significant lead-time for obtaining such items as large transformers, transmission structures, poles and wire. Our transmission project revenues could be significantly reduced or delayed due to the difficulty we, our suppliers, or our customers, may experience in obtaining required materials. The timing of new contracts and termination of existing contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our cash flows and financial results. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from project-based work that is awarded through a competitive bid process. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and geographic distribution of the projects that we will be awarded. The selection of, timing of or failure to obtain projects, delays in awards of projects, the re-bidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing and other contingencies that may delay or result in termination of projects. This can present difficulty in matching workforce size and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a ready workforce and equipment that is larger than necessary, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If an expected contract award or the related work release is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments by a customer and may expose us to potential credit risk if such customer should encounter financial difficulties. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that were active in previous periods will 17 Table of Contents reduce our revenue and earnings if such significant projects have not been replaced in the current period. Legislative actions may fail to result in increased demand for our services . In August 2005, the United States government enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the "Energy Act") to encourage increased spending by the power industry. Implementation of the Energy Act remains subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. The Energy Act may not streamline the process for siting and permitting new transmission projects or eliminate the barriers to new transmission investments. As a result, the Energy Act may not result in the anticipated increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. Continued uncertainty regarding the new infrastructure investments and the implementation and impact of the Energy Act may result in less growth in demand for our services. In February 2009, the United States government enacted the ARRA for the purpose of stabilizing the United States economy through appropriations for various purposes, including investments in electricity delivery and energy reliability. While the ARRA includes appropriations of funds to be used for projects in which we could provide our services, we do not know whether we will benefit from the ARRA. We cannot predict, among other things, the size, location, type, or timing of the projects that will be funded by the ARRA. In 2010, we did not significantly benefit from any project that was substantially funded by the ARRA, and we may not recognize revenues from the ARRA for a few years, if at all. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized profits. As discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results from Operations—Critical Accounting Policies" and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is commonly used in the industry for fixed-price contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record adjustments to estimated costs of contracts when we believe the change in estimate is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These adjustments could result in both increases and decreases in profit margins. Actual results could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our actual costs may be greater than expected in performing our fixed-price and unit-price contracts. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues and profits under fixed-price and unit-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for these types of contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated and we may not be successful in recouping additional costs from our customers. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price and unit-price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally 18 Table of Contents estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects due to changes in a variety of factors such as: •failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, material, equipment or labor; •unanticipated technical problems with the structures, materials or services being supplied by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; •project modifications creating unanticipated costs; •changes in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors; •our suppliers' or subcontractors' failure to perform; •difficulties in our customers obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; •changes in local laws and regulations; or •delays caused by local weather conditions. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on U.S. GAAP. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates may be used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment, insurance claims liabilities, valuation allowance on deferred taxes, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition based upon percentage-of-completion accounting and provision for income taxes. From time-to-time, we may publicly provide earnings or other forms of guidance, which reflect our predictions about future revenue, operating costs and capital structure, among other factors. These predictions may be impacted by estimates, as well as other factors that are beyond our control and may not turn out to be correct. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We insure against many potential liabilities and our reserves for estimated losses may be less than our actual losses. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers' compensation, employers' liability and other coverages, those policies do not cover all possible claims. We also have an employee health care benefit plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which is subject to certain deductible limits. Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of 19 Table of Contents our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, such claims or costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk; and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Our business is subject to numerous safety risks, including electrocutions, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, transportation accidents and damage to equipment on which we work. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. We have suffered serious injuries and fatalities in the past and may suffer additional serious injuries and fatalities in the future. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. In addition, we have in the past, and we may in the future, be subject to criminal penalties relating to occupational health and safety violations, which have resulted in and could in the future result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our customers seek to minimize safety risks on their sites and they frequently review the safety records of outside contractors during the bidding process. If our safety record were to substantially deteriorate, we might become ineligible to bid on certain work, and our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may pay our suppliers and subcontractors before receiving payment from our customers for the related services. We use suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our suppliers and subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we pay our suppliers and subcontractors for materials purchased and work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying, us for the related work, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from customers that experience financial difficulties. We grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers in our T&D segment, which include investor-owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities and cooperatives across the United States and in our C&I segment, which include general contractors, commercial and industrial facility owners, local governments and developers located primarily in the western United States. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the continental United States. Our customers also include special purpose entities that own T&D projects which do not have the financial resources of traditional transmission utility operators. If any of our major customers experience financial difficulties, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. In addition, material changes in any of our customers' revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. Increases in energy costs and macro-economic challenges that affect the economy of the United States may affect some of our customers, and as a result, they may not be successful in generating 20 Table of Contents sufficient revenues or securing the necessary financing to satisfy amounts owed to us. The inability of current and future customers to pay us for the services we provide could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 61.6% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our largest customer accounted for 19.3% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our revenue could significantly decline if we lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenues generated from contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work ordered by such customers in a given period and as a result of competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, and we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Our contracts may require that we provide to our customers security for the performance of their projects. This security may be in the form of a "performance bond" (a bond whereby a commercial surety provides for the benefit of the customer a bond insuring completion of the project), a "payment bond" (a separate bond insuring persons furnishing labor and materials to the project are paid), or both. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry and the decrease in lending activity, may have a negative effect on surety providers. These market conditions, as well as changes in our surety's assessment of our operating and financial risk, could also cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in our availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects, and such interruption or reduction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our bonding requirements may limit our ability to incur indebtedness. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon various factors including our capitalization, working capital and amount of our indebtedness. In order to help ensure that we can obtain required bonds, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness that may be needed to refinance our existing credit facilities upon maturity and to execute our business plan. Our inability to incur additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Inability to hire or retain key personnel could disrupt business. The success of our business depends upon the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each operating subsidiary. Other than with respect to our named executive officers, we do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our employees. The relationships between our executive officers and senior management and our customers are important to obtaining and retaining business. We are also dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing and recruiting employees to our projects. There can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time and the loss of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Industry-wide competition for managerial talent is high. Given that level of competition, there could be situations where our overall compensation package may be viewed as less attractive as compared to our competition, and we may experience the loss of key personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and relationships with our customers. We do not carry key person life insurance on key employees. Work stoppages or other labor issues with our unionized workforce and obligations related to our unionized workforce could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 93% of our field labor employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, these collective bargaining agreements may require us to participate with other companies in various multi-employer pension plans. To the extent that we participate in any multi-employer pension plans that are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we were to withdraw from them or if they were terminated. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the "PPA") imposes additional funding rules applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer pension plans that are classified as either "endangered," "seriously endangered" or "critical" status. For a plan that is classified as being in critical status, additional required employer contributions and/or employee benefit reductions could be applied going forward based on future union wages paid. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, we were informed that several of the multi-employer pension plans to which our subsidiaries contribute have been labeled with a "critical" or "endangered" status as defined by the PPA. Although we are not currently aware of any potential significant liabilities to us as a result of these plans being classified as being in critical status, our future results could be impacted if we were to be subject to increased contributions under these plans. Our business is labor intensive and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and our operating results will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time-to-time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel, such as engineers, project managers, field supervisors, and linemen. During periods with volumes of storm restoration services work, linemen are frequently recruited across geographic regions to satisfy demand. Many linemen are willing to travel to earn premium wages for such work, which from time-to-time makes it difficult for us to retain these workers for ongoing projects when storm conditions persist. The 22 Table of Contents supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors, linemen and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging utility workforce, may further deplete the pool of skilled workers available to us, even if we are not awarded such projects. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. Inability to perform our obligations under EPC contracts may adversely affect our business. EPC contracts require us to perform a range of services for our customers, some of which we routinely subcontract to other parties. We believe that these types of contracts will become increasingly prevalent in the T&D industry. In most instances, these contracts require completion of a project by a specific date and the achievement of certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to meet such dates or standards, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failure. Our inability to obtain the necessary material and equipment to meet a project schedule or the installation of defective material or equipment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Seasonal and other variations, including severe weather conditions, may cause significant fluctuations in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although our revenues are primarily driven by spending patterns in our customers' industries, our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal variations, particularly in our T&D segment. These variations are influenced by weather, hours of daylight, customer spending patterns, available system outages from utilities, bidding seasons and holidays, and can have a significant impact on our gross margins. Our profitability may decrease during the winter months and during severe weather conditions because work performed during these periods may be restricted and more costly to complete. Additionally, our T&D customers often cannot remove their T&D lines from service during the summer months, when consumer demand for electricity is at its peak, delaying the demand for our maintenance and repair services. Working capital needs are also influenced by the seasonality of our business. We generally experience a need for additional working capital during the spring when we increase outdoor construction in weather-affected regions of the country, and we convert working capital assets to cash during the winter months. Significant disruptions in our ability to perform services due to these seasonal variations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We are subject to risks associated with climate change. Climate change may create physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change could, among other things, include an increase in extreme weather events (such as floods or hurricanes), rising sea levels, decreased arability of farmland, and limitations on water availability and quality. Such extreme weather conditions may limit the availability of resources, driving up the costs of our projects, or may cause projects to be delayed or cancelled, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Additionally, legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change and new interpretations of existing laws through climate change litigation may also negatively impact our operations. The cost of additional regulatory requirements, such as taxes on greenhouse gases or additional environmental regulation, could impact the availability of goods and increase our costs. The Environmental Protection Agency and other federal and state regulatory bodies have begun taking steps to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, including proposals that would establish greenhouse gas efficiency standards for light duty vehicles. While we do not currently have operations outside of the United States, international 23 Table of Contents treaties or accords could also have an impact on our business to the extent they lead to future federal or state regulations. Compliance with any new laws or regulations regarding the reduction of greenhouse gases could result in significant changes to our operations and a significant increase in our cost of conducting business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the use, transport and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or otherwise use our properties in ways such as collateral for possible financing. We could also be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a part of our business is done in the southwestern United States, where we run a greater risk of fines, work stoppages or other sanctions for disturbing Native American artifacts and archeological sites. New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including our predecessor owners or lessors) for some or all of such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in the cost of certain materials and fuel could reduce our operating margins. We are exposed to market risk of fluctuations in commodity prices of materials. Additionally, the price of fuel needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing. Accordingly, any increase in material or fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We could incur liquidated damages or other damages if we do not complete our projects in the time allotted under the applicable contract, or we may be required to perform additional work if our services do not meet certain standards of quality. In many instances, our contracts require completion of a project by a specific date and/or the achievement of certain performance or quality standards. If we fail to meet such completion dates or standards, we may be responsible for payment in the form of contractually agreed upon liquidated or other damages or we may be required to perform additional services without payment. To the extent that any of these events occur, the total costs of a project could exceed the original estimated costs, 24 Table of Contents and we would experience reduced profits or even, in some cases, a loss. Failure to comply with the completion dates and quality standards contained in our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Opportunities within the government arena could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. If we were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, significant costs could be incurred by us before any revenues were realized from these contracts. Government agencies may review a contractor's performance, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. Government contracts are also subject to renegotiation of profit and termination by the government prior to the expiration of the term which could lead to reduced revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to integrate future acquisitions successfully, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire companies that expand, complement or diversify our business. Future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management's attention from our existing business, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and the potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. Our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position may be affected by our ability to successfully integrate any businesses acquired. Our business may be affected by difficult work environments. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted. Performing work under these conditions can slow our progress, potentially causing us to incur contractual liability to our customers. These difficult conditions may also cause us to incur additional, unanticipated costs that we might not be able to pass on to our customers. Unexpected costs or liabilities may arise from lawsuits or indemnity claims related to the services we perform. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, pursuant to our service arrangements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide under those service arrangements. In some instances our services are integral to the operation and performance of the electric distribution and transmission infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems we work on, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of managements' attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of the impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. As of December 31, 2010 we had approximately $46.6 million of goodwill and $11.2 million of net intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Although we have not recorded any asset impairment charges in the past, a decline in the estimated results of operations or future cash flows of our reporting units, which are our reportable segments, or an adverse change in market conditions, cost of capital or growth rates could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The market price of our stock may be volatile and our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock at or above the purchase price they paid. The market price of our stock is subject to fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •the risk factors described in this Item 1A; •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operations; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts that cover our stock or our failure to meet these estimates; •our announcements or our competitors' announcements of significant events, including acquisitions and large contract awards. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. The market price for our common stock has been volatile and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, our operating results and the value of our common stock. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business operating results and financial condition could be harmed. On an annual basis, we will furnish an assessment by our management on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting with our annual report on Form 10-K, and our independent registered public accounting firm will issue an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of the documentation and testing necessary to make our annual assessment, we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may be unable to remediate before the requisite deadline for those reports. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to process and report financial information and the value of our common stock could significantly decline. 26 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include a staggered board of directors, board authority to issue preferred stock, and advance notice provisions for director nominations or business to be considered at a stockholder meeting. In addition, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 