Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. Our operating results may vary significantly from year to year. Our results may be materially and adversely affected by: •the timing and volume of work under contract; •regional and general economic conditions and the current crisis in the financial markets; •the budgetary spending patterns of customers; •variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular reporting period; •a change in the demand for our services and increased costs of performance of our services caused by severe weather conditions; •increases in design and construction costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers; •the termination of existing agreements; •losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; •a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; •payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; •cost overruns on fixed price and unit price contracts; •availability of qualified labor for specific projects; •changes in bonding requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; and •costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular reporting period may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other reporting period. We are unable to predict the impact of the current downturn in the financial markets and the resulting constraints in obtaining financing on our business and financial results. Our principal sources of cash come from our operating activities and the availability of bank borrowings under our credit facility, which expires in 2012. Our credit facility contains numerous covenants and requires us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and other tests. General business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and other tests, which may limit our ability to borrow under the facility. Additionally, the current economic downturn in the financial and credit markets has resulted in unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption on financial institutions, putting downward pressure on financial and other asset prices overall and on the credit availability for many issuers. The United States government and the Federal Reserve Bank created a number of programs that they believe will help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity. There can be no assurance that these programs will improve the markets overall, or will resolve the credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs. Due to the current restrictions on the overall availability of 14 Table of Contents credit in the financial markets, it may be more difficult for us to obtain the necessary financing if needed and it is likely to be more difficult to refinance or restructure our existing debt if it becomes necessary or desirable to do so. These restrictions could cause us to forgo otherwise attractive business opportunities and could require us to modify our business plan. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the financial markets; however we can give no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing either on favorable terms or at all in the future. The recent instability of the financial markets and adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our customers to perform their obligations to us and on the demand for our services. Recently, there has been widespread concern over the instability of the financial markets and their influence on the global economy. As a result of the credit market crisis and other economic challenges currently affecting the global economy, our current or potential future customers may experience serious cash flow problems and as a result, may modify, delay, or cancel plans to purchase our services. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our services may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. In addition, the general economic environment significantly affects demand for our services. During periods of slowing economic activity, a global slowdown in spending on infrastructure development may occur in the markets in which we operate, and customers may reduce their purchases of our services. As a result, any significant economic downturn, including the current economic downturn and the adverse conditions in the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on customer demand. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, which are likely to worsen as a result of reduced revenues generated due to the current economic conditions, many governmental agencies may be required to reduce the amount they spend on T&D and C&I projects. There can be no assurance that the current economic slowdown or further deterioration of economic conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to industry downturns and regional and national downturns, which may be amplified by the current economic downturn. The demand for infrastructure construction and maintenance services from our customers has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the industries we serve as well as the United States economy in general. If the general level of economic activity continues to slow as a result of the current crisis in the financial markets, or if the economic activity in the regions that we serve slows, financing conditions for our industry could be adversely affected and our customers may delay commencement of work on, or cancel, new projects or maintenance activity on existing projects or may undertake to outsource less work to contractors such as us. A number of other factors, including financing conditions for the industry and customer financial conditions, could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures. As a result, demand for our services could decline substantially for extended periods, particularly during economic downturns, which could decrease our revenues, margins, profits and cash flows and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies and several large national and regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into the C&I market and the distribution market. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors in those areas. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of 15 Table of Contents our competitors, including our competitors in the transmission market, may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than ours. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the markets we serve or maintain our customer base at current levels. We also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. Electric power providers often employ personnel to internally perform some of the same types of services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, increased spending on public projects as outlined in the ARRA may also encourage additional competitors to enter the markets that we serve, resulting in increased competition and lower gross margins. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: •attract new customers; •increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; •hire and retain qualified personnel; •successfully bid for new projects; or •adapt the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving construction needs. In addition, our customers' inability to obtain capital may reduce the number or size of projects available to us. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if they are canceled or as they are completed or expire. We could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: •our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; •we fail to win a significant number of our existing MSA contracts upon re-bid; •we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or •we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under MSAs. Under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us. Many of our contracts, including our MSAs, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. 16 Table of Contents Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Backlog is difficult to determine accurately and different companies within our industry may define backlog differently. Additionally, most contracts, including MSAs, may be terminated by our customers on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, but sometimes less. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but we typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. The timing of contract awards and duration of large new contracts can significantly affect backlog reporting. Given these factors and our method of calculating backlog, our backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period and our backlog as of the end of a fiscal year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following fiscal year and should not be viewed or relied upon as a stand-alone indicator. Consequently, we cannot assure you as to our customers' requirements or our estimates. An inability to realize revenue from our backlog could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See "Item 1. Business—Backlog" for a discussion on how we calculate backlog for our business. The Energy Act may fail to result in increased spending on electric power transmission infrastructure and the current economic downturn in the United States may lead to cancellations or delays of related projects. In August 2005, the United States government enacted the Energy Act to encourage increased spending by the power industry. Implementation of the Energy Act remains subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. Many of the regulations implementing the components of the Energy Act have not been promulgated and many others have only recently been finalized at the agency level, and the effect of these regulations, once implemented and after any judicial review or challenge is uncertain. The Energy Act may not streamline the process for siting and permitting new transmission projects or eliminate the barriers to new transmission investments. As a result, the Energy Act may not result in the anticipated increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. Continued uncertainty regarding the new infrastructure investments and the implementation and impact of the Energy Act may result in slower growth in demand for our services. We may not benefit from the passage of the ARRA. In February 2009, the United States government enacted the ARRA for the purpose of stabilizing the United States economy through appropriations for various purposes, including investments in electricity delivery and energy reliability. While the ARRA includes appropriations of funds to be used for projects in which we could provide our services, we do not know whether we will be awarded or benefit from the ARRA. We cannot predict, among other things, the size, location, type, or timing of the projects that will be funded by the ARRA. Additionally, spending under the ARRA may not begin immediately and financial benefits may not be recognized for a few years. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized profits. As discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results from Operations—Critical Accounting Policies" and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is commonly used in the industry for fixed price contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based 17 Table of Contents on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record adjustments to estimated costs of contracts when we believe the change in estimate is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These adjustments could result in both increases and decreases in profit margins. Actual results could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our actual costs may be greater than expected in performing our fixed price and unit price contracts. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues and profits under fixed price and unit price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for these types of contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated and we may not be successful in recouping additional costs from our customers. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price and unit price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects due to changes in a variety of factors such as: •failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, material, equipment or labor; •unanticipated technical problems with the structures, materials or services being supplied by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; •project modifications creating unanticipated costs; •changes in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors; •our suppliers' or subcontractors' failure to perform; •difficulties in our customers obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; •changes in local laws and regulations; or •delays caused by local weather conditions. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on U.S. GAAP. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates may be used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, insurance claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition based upon percentage-of-completion accounting and provision for income taxes. From time-to-time, we may 18 Table of Contents publicly provide earnings or other forms of guidance, which reflect our predictions about future revenue, operating costs and capital structure, among other factors. These predictions may be impacted by estimates, as well as other factors that are beyond our control and may not turn out to be correct. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We insure against many potential liabilities and our reserves for estimated losses may be less than our actual losses. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability, those policies do not cover all possible claims. We also have an employee health care benefit plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which is subject to certain deductible limits. Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, such claims or costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Our business is subject to numerous safety risks, including electrocutions, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, transportation accidents and damage to equipment on which we work. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. We have suffered serious injuries and fatalities in the past and may suffer additional serious injuries and fatalities in the future. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. In addition, we have in the past, and we may in the future, be subject to criminal penalties relating to occupational health and safety violations, which have resulted in and could in the future result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our customers seek to minimize safety risks on their sites and they frequently review the safety records of outside contractors during the bidding process. If our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, we might become ineligible to bid on certain work and our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. We may pay our suppliers and subcontractors before receiving payment from our customers for the related services. We use suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our suppliers and subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we pay our suppliers and subcontractors for materials purchased and work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying, us for the related work, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from customers that experience financial difficulties. We grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers in our T&D segment, which include investor-owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities and cooperatives across the United States and in our C&I segment, which include general contractors, commercial and industrial facility owners, local governments and developers located primarily in the western United States. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the continental United States. Our customers also include special purpose entities that own T&D projects which do not have the financial resources of traditional transmission utility operators. If any of our major customers experience financial difficulties, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. In addition, material changes in any of our customer's revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. Given the current economic downturn, increases in energy costs and macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States, some of our customers may not be successful in generating sufficient revenues or securing the necessary financing to satisfy amounts owed to us. The inability of current and future customers to pay us for the services we provide could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 48.1% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our largest customer accounted for 9.8% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our revenue could significantly decline if we lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenues generated from contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work ordered by such customers in a given period and as a result of competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds and we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Our contracts may require that we provide to our customers security for the performance of their projects. This security may be in the form of a "performance bond" (a bond whereby a commercial surety provides for the benefit of the customer a bond insuring completion of the project), a "payment bond" (a separate bond insuring persons furnishing labor and materials to the project are paid), or both. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry and the decrease in lending activity may have a negative effect on surety providers. These market conditions, as well as changes in our surety's assessment of our operating and financial risk, could also cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were 20 Table of Contents to experience an interruption or reduction in our availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects and such interruption or reduction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our bonding requirements may limit our ability to incur indebtedness. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon various factors including our capitalization, working capital and amount of our indebtedness. In order to help ensure that we can obtain required bonds, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness that may be needed to refinance our existing credit facilities upon maturity and to execute our business plan. Our inability to incur additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Inability to hire or retain key personnel could disrupt business. The success of our business depends upon the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each operating subsidiary. Other than with respect to our named executive officers and one additional member of our senior management team, we do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our employees. The relationships between our executive officers and senior management and our customers are important to obtaining and retaining business. We are also dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing and recruiting employees to our projects. There can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time and the loss of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Industry-wide competition for managerial talent is high. Given that level of competition, there could be situations where our overall compensation package may be viewed as less attractive as compared to our competition, and we may experience the loss of key personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and relationships with our customers. We do not carry key person life insurance on key employees. Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 91% of our field labor employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, these agreements may require us to participate with other companies in various multi-employer pension plans. To the extent that we participate in any multi-employer pension plans that are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we were to withdraw from them or if they were terminated. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the "PPA") imposes additional funding rules applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as either "endangered", "seriously endangered" or "critical" status. For a plan that is classified as being in critical status, additional required contributions and benefit reductions would apply. However, we are not currently aware of any multi-employer plan to which any of our subsidiaries contributes as being in critical status as defined by the PPA. 21 Table of Contents Our business is labor intensive and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time-to-time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. For example, there is a shortage of engineers, project managers, field supervisors, linemen and other skilled workers capable of working on and supervising the construction of high-voltage electric lines and substations. During periods with volumes of storm restoration services work, linemen are frequently recruited across geographic regions to satisfy demand. Many linemen are willing to travel in order to earn premium wages for such work, which from time-to-time makes it difficult for us to retain these workers for ongoing projects when storm conditions persist. The supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors, linemen and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements as well as the aging utility workforce may further deplete the pool of skilled workers available to us, even if we are not awarded such projects. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. Inability to perform our obligations under EPC contracts may adversely affect our business. EPC contracts require us to perform a range of services for our customers, some of which we routinely subcontract to other parties. We believe that these types of contracts will become increasingly prevalent in the T&D industry. In most instances, these contracts require completion of a project by a specific date and the achievement of certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to meet such dates or standards, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failure. Our inability to obtain the necessary material and equipment to meet a project schedule or the installation of defective material or equipment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We require subcontractors to assist us in providing certain services and we may be unable to retain the necessary subcontractors to complete certain projects. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts and to manage workflow, particularly for design, engineering, procurement and some foundation work. Although we are not dependent upon any single subcontractor, general market conditions may limit the availability of subcontractors on which we rely to perform portions of our contracts and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business growth could outpace the capability of our internal infrastructure. Our internal infrastructure may not be adequate to support our operations as they expand. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for a project, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis or to find alternative ways to perform the work without the benefit of equipment ideally suited for the job, which could increase the costs of completing the project. Furthermore, we may be unable to buy or rent the specialty equipment and tooling we require due to the limited number of manufacturers and distributors in the marketplace. We often bid for work knowing that we will have to rent equipment on a short-term basis and we include our assumptions of market equipment rental rates into our bid. If market rates for rental equipment increase between the time of bid submission and project execution, our margins for the project may be reduced. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance, which we generally provide through our own repair 22 Table of Contents facilities. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet, we may be forced to obtain additional third-party repair services at a higher cost or be unable to bid on contracts. Future growth also could impose additional responsibilities on members of our senior management. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. Seasonal and other variations, including severe weather conditions, may cause significant fluctuations in our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although our revenues are primarily driven by spending patterns in our customers' industries, our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal variations, particularly in our T&D segment. These variations are influenced by weather, hours of daylight, customer spending patterns, available system outages from utilities, bidding seasons and holidays, and can have a significant impact on our gross margins. Our profitability may decrease during the winter months and during severe weather conditions because work performed during these periods may be restricted and more costly to complete. Additionally, our T&D customers often cannot remove their T&D lines from service during the summer months, when consumer demand for electricity is at its peak, delaying the demand for our maintenance and repair services. Working capital needs are also influenced by the seasonality of our business. We generally experience a need for additional working capital during the spring when we increase outdoor construction in weather-affected regions of the country, and we convert working capital assets to cash during the winter months. Significant disruptions in our ability to perform services due to these seasonal variations could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, results of operation and cash flows. Increases in the costs of certain materials and fuel could reduce our operating margins. Because we generally buy materials for our C&I projects, we are exposed to market risk of fluctuations in commodity prices of materials such as copper. Additionally, the price of fuel needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing. Accordingly, any increase in material or fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, results of operation and cash flows. We could incur liquidated damages or other damages if we do not complete our projects in the time allotted under the applicable contract or we may be required to perform additional work if our services do not meet certain standards of quality. In many instances, our contracts require completion of a project by a specific date and/or the achievement of certain performance or quality standards. If we fail to meet such completion dates or standards, we may be responsible for payment in the form of contractually agreed upon liquidated or other damages or we may be required to perform additional services without payment. To the extent that any of these events occur, the total costs of a project could exceed the original estimated costs, and we would experience reduced profits or even, in some cases, a loss. Failure to comply with the completion dates and quality standards contained in our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The timing of new contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our cash flow and profitability. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from project-based work that is awarded through a competitive bid process. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and geographic distribution 23 Table of Contents of the projects that we will be awarded. The selection of, timing of or failure to obtain projects, delays in awards of projects, the re-bidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing and other contingencies that may delay or result in termination of projects. This can present difficulty in matching workforce size and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a ready workforce and equipment that is larger than necessary, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If an expected contract award or the related work release is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments by a customer and may expose us to potential credit risk if such customer should encounter financial difficulties. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that were active in previous periods will reduce our revenue and earnings if such significant projects have not been replaced in the current period. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the occasional handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. The presence of contamination from or wastes on our properties or at a job site could interfere with ongoing operations. In addition, a part of our business is done in the southwestern United States, where we run a greater risk of fines, work stoppages or other sanctions for disturbing Native American artifacts and archeological sites. New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for some or all of such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Opportunities within the government arena could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. If we were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, significant costs could be incurred by us before any revenues were realized from these contracts. Government agencies may review a contractor's performance, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. Government contracts are also subject to renegotiation of profit and termination by the government prior to the expiration of the term which could lead to reduced revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to integrate future acquisitions successfully, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire companies that expand, complement or diversify our business. Future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management's attention from our existing business, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and the potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. Our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position may be affected by our ability to successfully integrate any businesses acquired. Our business may be affected by difficult work environments. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted. Performing work under these conditions can slow our progress, potentially causing us to incur contractual liability to our customers. These difficult conditions may also cause us to incur additional, unanticipated costs that we might not be able to pass on to our customers. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, our operating results and the value of our common stock. Maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. After we have been reporting as a public company for one year, we will furnish an assessment by our management on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, and our independent registered public accounting firm will issue a report on that assessment as well. During the course of the documentation and testing necessary to make our assessment, we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may be unable to remediate before the requisite deadline for those reports. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to process and report financial information and the value of our common stock could significantly decline. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include a staggered board of directors, board authority to issue preferred stock, and advance notice provisions for director nominations or business to be considered at a stockholder meeting. In addition, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 25 Table of Contents 