Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could affect our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, our operations. Additional risks we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also affect our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected and our stock price could decline. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from period to period. Additionally, our results may be materially and adversely affected by: •the timing and volume of work under contract; •increased competition and changes in the competitive marketplace for our services; •the spending patterns of customers and governments; •the amount of subcontractor and material costs in our projects; •permitting, regulatory or customer-caused delays on projects; •the timing and execution of change orders and other contract adjustments; •variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular reporting period; •a change in the demand for our services; •increased costs of performance of our services caused by severe weather conditions; •increases in design and construction costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers; •the termination or expiration of existing agreements; •regional and general economic conditions and the condition of the financial markets; •losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; •a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; •payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; •cost overruns on fixed-price and unit-price contracts; •availability of qualified labor for specific projects; •decreased equipment utilization; •changes in bonding requirements applicable to existing and new agreements; •costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; and •changes in accounting pronouncements that require us to account for items differently than historical pronouncements. 14 Table of Contents Accordingly, our operating results in any particular reporting period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other reporting period. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry is highly competitive from existing and new entrants into our markets. Increased competition can place downward pressure on contract prices and profit margins and may limit the number of projects that we are awarded. Our industry is fragmented and we compete with other companies, ranging from small, independent firms servicing local markets to larger firms servicing regional and national markets. Relatively few barriers prevent entry into the C&I market and the distribution market. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors in those areas. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors, including our competitors in the transmission market, may have lower labor and overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower prices than ours. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial, technological and human resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the markets we serve or maintain our customer base at current levels. We also may face competition from in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. Electric utility companies often employ personnel to internally perform some of the same types of services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. We may be unsuccessful in generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: •attract new customers; •increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; •hire and retain qualified personnel; •successfully bid new projects; and •adapt the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving construction needs. In addition, if our customers are constrained in their ability to obtain capital, it could reduce the number or size of projects available to us. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful, or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. Negative economic and market conditions, as well as regulatory and environmental requirements, may adversely impact our customers' future spending and, as a result, our operations and growth. The demand for infrastructure construction and maintenance services from our customers has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the industries we serve as well as the economy in general. Stagnant or declining economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services in the past and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may adversely affect us in the future. Unfavorable economic conditions could also cause our customers to outsource less work. Additionally, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. A reduction in cash flow or the lack of 15 Table of Contents availability of debt or equity financing may result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. A prolonged economic downturn or recession could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. Consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power industry may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. Because the vast majority of our transmission and distribution revenue is derived from the electric utility industry, regulatory and environmental requirements affecting that industry could adversely affect our results of operations. Customers in the electric utility industry we serve face stringent regulatory and environmental requirements as well as permitting processes as they implement plans for their projects, which may result in delays, reductions and cancellations of some of their projects. These regulatory factors have resulted in decreased demand for our services in the past, and they may do so in the future, potentially impacting our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. Project performance issues, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues or the payment of penalties, including liquidated damages. Many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. We may encounter difficulties that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. These difficulties may be the result of delays in designs, engineering information or materials provided by the customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customer's failure to timely obtain permits or rights-of-way or meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays, delays caused by difficult worksite environments and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, for some projects we contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. Any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. We also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of electric transmission lines, solar or wind projects, or other facilities. We may not be able to recover the costs we incur that are caused by delays. In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. Failure to meet any of our schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. In extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. Such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. Our customers may change or delay various elements of the project after its commencement. The design, engineering information, equipment or materials that are to be provided by the customer or other parties may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. Under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. We are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials. Litigation or arbitration of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. A 16 Table of Contents failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Any such adjustments could be substantial. We may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial results in any given period. Our business is labor intensive and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and our operating results may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time-to-time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel, such as engineers, project managers, field supervisors, and linemen, particularly in certain regions. In addition, our projects are sometimes located in remote areas which can make recruitment and deployment of our employees challenging. During periods with large volumes of storm restoration services work, linemen are frequently recruited across geographic regions to satisfy demand. Many linemen are willing to travel to earn premium wages for such work, which from time-to-time makes it difficult for us to retain these workers for ongoing projects when storm conditions persist. The supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors, linemen and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, may further reduce the pool of skilled workers available to us, even if we are not awarded such projects. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. The timing of new contracts and termination of existing contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our cash flows and financial results. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from project-based work that is awarded through a competitive bid process. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and geographic distribution of the projects that we will be awarded. The selection of, timing of, or failure to obtain projects, delays in awards of projects, the re-bidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. This can present difficulty in matching workforce size and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a ready workforce and equipment that is larger than necessary, which could impact our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If an expected contract award or the related work release is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments from the customer. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that were active in previous periods will reduce our revenue and earnings if such significant projects have not been replaced in the current period. Many of our contracts may be canceled upon short notice, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if they are canceled or as they are completed or expire. We could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if contracts are canceled and if we are unable to replace canceled, completed or expired contracts. Many of our customers have the ability to cancel their contracts with us on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under MSAs. Under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. 17 Table of Contents Our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us or is cancelled. Many of our contracts, including our MSAs, are opened to competitive bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Backlog is difficult to determine accurately, and companies within our industry may define backlog differently. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation, termination or scope adjustment by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, termination or scope adjustment, we typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. The timing of contract awards, duration of large new contracts and the mix of services, subcontracted work and material in our contracts can significantly affect backlog reporting. Given these factors and our method of calculating backlog, our backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period, and our backlog as of the end of a fiscal year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following fiscal year and should not be viewed or relied upon as a stand-alone indicator. Consequently, we cannot provide assurance as to our customers' requirements or our estimates of backlog. See "Item 1. Business—Backlog" for a discussion on how we calculate backlog for our business. Our business growth could outpace the capability of our internal resources. Our internal resources, including our workforce, specialized equipment and financial resources may not be adequate to support our operations as they expand, particularly if we are awarded a significant number of large projects in a short time period. A large project may require hiring additional qualified personnel, such as engineers, project managers, field supervisors, linemen and safety personnel, the supply of which may not be sufficient to meet our demands. Often large transmission projects require specialized equipment. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for a project, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis or to find alternative ways to perform the work without the benefit of equipment ideally suited for the job, which could increase the costs of completing the project. Furthermore, we may be unable to buy or rent the specialty equipment and tooling we require due to the limited number of manufacturers and distributors in the marketplace. Larger projects may require substantial financial resources to meet the cash flow, bonding or letter of credit requirements imposed upon contractors by the customer. Future growth also could impose additional demands and responsibilities on members of our senior management. We may depend on subcontractors to assist us in providing certain services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts and to manage workflow, particularly for design, engineering, procurement and some foundation work. Although we are not dependent upon any single subcontractor, general market conditions may limit the availability of subcontractors on which we rely to perform portions of our contracts. Successful completion of our contracts may depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, or if our subcontractors fail to meet the expected completion dates and quality standards, we may be required to incur additional costs and provide additional services in order to make up such shortfall. 18 Table of Contents We may depend on customers or suppliers to procure material for our projects. Our customers often supply the materials necessary for our projects. However, on some projects we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials. Demand for transmission products and services could strain production resources and could create significant lead-time for obtaining such items as large transformers, transmission structures, poles and wire. Our transmission project revenues could be significantly reduced or delayed due to the difficulty that we, our suppliers, or our customers, may experience in obtaining required materials. Our participation in joint ventures and other projects with third parties may expose us to liability for failures of our partners. We may enter into joint venture or other strategic arrangements with other parties as part of our business operations. Success on a jointly performed project depends in large part on whether all parties satisfy their contractual obligations. Joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of the joint venture. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities relating to claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate or agreed upon share of a liability to make up for the partner's shortfall. In addition, if we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, reduce our profit on the project or damage our reputation. Legislative or Regulatory actions relating to electricity transmission and renewable energy may impact demand for our services. Current and potential legislative or regulatory actions may impact demand for our services. Certain legislation or regulations require utilities to meet reliability standards and encourage installation of new electric transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. However, it is unclear whether these initiatives will create sufficient incentives for projects or result in increased demand for our services. While many states have mandates in place that require specified percentages of electricity to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which could reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. Additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. The locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and may not be viable unless new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport the electricity to demand centers is economically feasible. Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available. These factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects and a delay in the construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which could negatively impact our business. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recognized profits. As discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results from Operations—Critical Accounting Policies" and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is commonly used in the construction industry for fixed-price contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses 19 Table of Contents are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record adjustments to estimated costs of contracts when we believe the change in estimate is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These adjustments could result in both increases and decreases in profit margins. Actual results could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. Our actual costs may be greater than expected in performing our fixed- price and unit-price contracts. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues and profits under fixed-price and unit-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project when we bid for these types of contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated and we may not be successful in recouping additional costs from our customers. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price and unit-price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects due to changes in a variety of factors such as: •failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, material, equipment or labor; •unanticipated technical problems with the structures, materials or services being supplied by us, which may require us to incur additional costs to remedy the problem; •project modifications that create unanticipated costs; •changes in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors; •the failure of our suppliers or subcontractors to perform; •difficulties in our customers obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; •site conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid (to the extent contract remedies are unavailable); •the availability and skill level of workers in the geographic location of the project; •an increase in the cost of fuel or other resources; •changes in local laws and regulations; •delays caused by local weather conditions; or •quality issues requiring rework. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"), estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. 20 Table of Contents The most significant estimates we use are related to estimates to complete on contracts, insurance reserves, accounts receivable reserves, the recoverability of goodwill and intangibles, and estimates surrounding stock-based compensation. We also may use estimates in our assessment of the useful lives of property and equipment, the valuation allowance on deferred taxes and the provision for income taxes. From time-to-time, we may publicly provide earnings or other forms of guidance, which reflect our predictions about future revenue, operating costs and capital structure, among other factors. These predictions may be impacted by estimates, as well as other factors that are beyond our control and may not turn out to be correct. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use. We maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers' compensation, employers' liability and other coverages, but those policies do not cover all possible claims and are subject to certain deductible limits. We also have an employee health care benefit plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which is subject to certain deductible limits. Insurance losses are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety programs, and as a result, our actual losses may exceed our estimates. The loss of a key customer could have an adverse affect on us. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 57.8% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Much of our success depends on developing and maintaining relationships with our major customers. Our revenue could significantly decline if we lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenues generated from contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work ordered by such customers in a given period and as a result of competition from the in-house service organizations of our customers. Our failure to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations could result in significant liabilities. Our past, current and future operations are subject to numerous environmental and other laws and regulations governing our operations, including the use, transport and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or otherwise use our properties in ways such as collateral for possible financing. We could also be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new permitting or clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including our predecessor owners or lessors) for some or all of such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs. 21 Table of Contents Legislative and regulatory proposals related to address greenhouse gas emissions could result in a variety of regulatory programs, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. Any of these actions could result in increased costs associated with our operations and impact the prices we charge our customers. If new regulations are adopted regulating greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, we could experience a significant increase in environmental compliance costs in light of our large fleet. In addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations protecting endangered species. Laws also protect Native American artifacts and archeological sites and a part of our business is done in the southwestern United States, where there is a greater chance of discovering those sites. We may incur work stoppages to avoid violating these laws and regulations, or we may risk fines or other sanctions for accidentally or willfully violating these laws and regulations. Unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure and could disrupt our operations. We maintain insurance coverage from third party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers' compensation, our employee group health program, and other types of coverage, these policies are subject to high deductibles, and we are self-insured up to the amount of those deductibles. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities to which we may be subject. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis; therefore, deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. There can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewed upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. In addition, our third party insurers may fail, cancel our coverage, determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or otherwise be unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. We may not be able to obtain certain types of insurance or incremental levels of insurance in scope or amount sufficient to cover liabilities we may incur. If any of these events occur, our overall risk exposure would increase and our operations could be disrupted. If our risk exposure increases as a result of adverse changes in our insurance coverage, we could be subject to increased claims and liabilities that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The nature of our business exposes us to warranty claims, which may reduce our profitability. We typically provide a warranty for the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and the material we supply. Warranty claims that we have historically received have not been material because much of the work we perform is inspected by our customers for any defects in construction prior to acceptance of the project. However, if warranty claims occur, it could require us to re-perform the services or to repair or replace the warrantied item, at a cost to us, and could also result in other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. In addition, we may be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures of materials we purchased from third parties. While we generally require the materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide to the customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials for which we are not reimbursed. Costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Our business is subject to numerous safety risks, including electrocutions, fires, explosions, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, transportation accidents and damage to equipment. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. We have suffered serious injuries and fatalities in the past and may suffer additional serious injuries and fatalities in the future. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. In addition, we have in the past, and we may in the future, be subject to criminal penalties relating to occupational health and safety violations, which have resulted in and could in the future result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our customers seek to minimize safety risks on their sites and they frequently review the safety records of outside contractors during the bidding process. If our safety record were to substantially deteriorate, we might become ineligible to bid on certain work, and our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. We extend trade credit to customers for purchases of our services, and may have difficulty collecting receivables from them. We grant trade credit, generally without collateral, to our customers for the purchase of our services. In the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from customers, particularly those experiencing financial difficulties. Our customers in the T&D segment include investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, cooperatives, private developers, federally-owned utilities, independent power producers, independent transmission companies, industrial facility owners and other contractors. Our customers in the C&I segment include general contractors, commercial and industrial facility owners, local governments and developers located primarily in the western United States. Our customers also include special purpose entities that own T&D projects which do not have the financial resources of traditional transmission utility operators. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors. Due to our work on large construction projects, a few customers sometimes may comprise a large portion of our receivable balance at any point in time. If any of our major customers experience financial difficulties, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. In addition, material changes in any of our customers' revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. We may not be able to compete for, or work on, certain projects if we are not able to obtain any necessary bonds. Our contracts may require that we provide to our customers security for the performance of their projects, typically in the form of a performance bond, a payment bond, or both. Under standard terms in the bond market, sureties issue or renew bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or a decrease in lending activity, may have a negative effect on surety providers. These market conditions, as well as changes in our surety providers' assessment of our operating and financial risk, could also cause 23 Table of Contents our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in our availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for, or work on, certain projects. Inability to hire or retain key personnel could disrupt business. The success of our business depends upon the continued efforts and abilities of our executive officers and senior management, including the management at each operating subsidiary. The relationships between our executive officers and senior management and our customers are important to obtaining and retaining business. We are also dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing and recruiting employees to our projects. There can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time. Industry-wide competition for managerial talent is high. Given that level of competition, there could be situations where our overall compensation package may be viewed as less attractive as compared to our competition, and we may experience the loss of key personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and relationships with our customers. Work stoppages or other labor issues with our unionized workforce could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 92% of our craft labor employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages could adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business, resulting in decreased revenues. Multi-employer pension plan obligations related to our unionized workforce could adversely impact our earnings. Our collective bargaining agreements may require us to participate with other companies in various multi-employer pension plans. To the extent that we participate in any multi-employer pension plans that are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we were to withdraw from them or if they were terminated. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the "PPA") imposes additional funding rules applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer pension plans that are classified as either "endangered," "seriously endangered" or "critical" status. For a plan that is classified as being in critical status, additional required employer contributions and/or employee benefit reductions could be applied going forward based on future union wages paid. We have been informed that several of the multi-employer pension plans to which our subsidiaries contribute have been labeled with a "critical" or "endangered" status as defined by the PPA. Although we are not currently aware of any potential significant liabilities to us as a result of these plans being classified as being in critical status, our future results could be impacted. It is unclear what impact the expiration of the PPA at the end of 2014 will have in our obligations to the multi-employer pension plans in which we participate. 24 Table of Contents We may fail to execute or integrate future acquisitions or joint ventures successfully. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire companies or enter into joint ventures that expand, complement or diversify our business. The number of acquisition targets or joint venture opportunities that meet our criteria may be limited, and we may face competition for these opportunities. Acquisitions or joint ventures that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, the incurrence or assumption of debt or burdensome regulatory requirements. Future acquisitions or joint ventures may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management's attention from our existing business, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and the potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. Our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position may be affected by our ability to successfully integrate any businesses acquired. Our business may be affected by seasonal and other variations, including severe weather conditions. Although our revenues are primarily driven by spending patterns in our customers' industries, our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal variations, particularly in our T&D segment. These variations are influenced by weather, hours of daylight, customer spending patterns, available system outages from utilities and holidays, and can have a significant impact on our gross margins. Our profitability may decrease during the winter months and during severe weather conditions because work performed during these periods may be restricted and more costly to complete. Additionally, our T&D customers often cannot remove their T&D lines from service during the summer months when consumer demand for electricity is at its peak, delaying the demand for our maintenance and repair services. Working capital needs are also influenced by the seasonality of our business. We generally experience a need for additional working capital during the spring when we increase outdoor construction in weather-affected regions of the country, and we convert working capital assets to cash during the winter months. We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. If we cannot secure funds in the future, including financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. Our principal sources of cash come from our operating activities and borrowing availability under our credit facility, which expires in 2016. Our credit facility contains numerous covenants and requires us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and other tests. General business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and other tests, which may limit our ability to borrow under the facility. Restrictions in the availability of bank credit could cause us to forgo otherwise attractive business opportunities and could require us to modify our business plan. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the overall condition of the financial markets; however, we can give no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing either on favorable terms or at all in the future. Our operations are subject to a number of operational risks which may result in unexpected costs or liabilities. Unexpected costs or liabilities may arise from lawsuits or indemnity claims related to the services we perform. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental remediation, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, 25 Table of Contents pursuant to our service arrangements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide under those service arrangements. In some instances, our services are integral to the operation and performance of the electric distribution and transmission infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems we work on, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of managements' attention to the business. Opportunities associated with government contracts could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. If we were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, significant costs could be incurred by us before any revenues were realized from these contracts. Government agencies may review a contractor's performance, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. Government contracts are also subject to renegotiation of profit and termination by the government prior to the expiration of the term. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of the impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. As of December 31, 2013 we had approximately $46.6 million of goodwill and $10.2 million of net intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Although we have not recorded any asset impairment charges in the past, a decline in the estimated results of operations or future cash flows of our reporting units, which are our reportable segments, or an adverse change in market conditions, cost of capital or growth rates could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. We, or our business partners, may be subject to breaches of information technology systems, which could affect our competitive position or damage our reputation. We use our own information technology systems as well as our business partners' systems to maintain certain data and provide reports. Our security measures, and those of our business partners, may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. While we devote significant resources to network security and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. If an informational technology security breach affects our systems, or results in the unauthorized release of our proprietary information, our competitive situation or our reputation could be damaged. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include a staggered board of directors, board authority to issue preferred stock, and advance notice provisions for director nominations or business to be considered at a stockholder meeting. In addition, Delaware law 26 Table of Contents imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Risks associated with operating in the Canadian market could restrict our ability to expand and harm our business and prospects. We have previously disclosed our intention to expand our operations into Canada. However, we do not have recent experience operating in Canada or internationally. There are numerous inherent risks in conducting our business in Canada or internationally including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries, and difficult or additional legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our international operations. Limits on our ability to repatriate earnings, exchange controls, and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could also adversely impact our operations. Changes in the value of the Canadian dollar could increase or decrease the U.S. dollar value of our profits earned or assets held in Canada. These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to Canadian customers or to operate our Canadian business profitably, and negatively impact our results. We are subject to risks associated with climate change. Climate change may create physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change could, among other things, include an increase in extreme weather events (such as floods or hurricanes), rising sea levels and limitations on water availability and quality. Such extreme weather conditions may limit the availability of resources, increasing the costs of our projects, or may cause projects to be delayed or cancelled. Additionally, legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change and new interpretations of existing laws through climate change litigation may also negatively impact our operations. The cost of additional environmental regulatory requirements could impact the availability of goods and increase our costs. International treaties or accords could also have an impact on our business to the extent they lead to future governmental regulations. Compliance with any new laws or regulations regarding the reduction of greenhouse gases could result in significant changes to our operations and a significant increase in our cost of conducting business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 