ITEM 1A Risk Factors As a large company operating in a complex industry, Cigna encounters a variety of risks and uncertainties including those identified in this Risk Factor discussion and elsewhere in this report. Cigna has implemented and maintains enterprise-wide risk management processes, in addition to the risk management processes within its businesses. The factors discussed below represent significant risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, liquidity, results of operations or financial condition. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones Cigna faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect Cigna. Regulatory and Litigation Risks Health Care Reform legislation, as well as potential additional changes in federal or state regulations could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In 2010, Health Care Reform was signed into law, which is resulting in significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. Health Care Reform mandates broad changes in the delivery of health care benefits that may impact the Company’s current business model, including its relationship with current and future customers, producers and health care providers, products, services, processes and technology. Health Care Reform includes, among other requirements, provisions for guaranteed coverage and renewal requirements, prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime limits on the dollar amount of benefits for essential health services, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage, minimum medical loss ratio and customer rebate requirements, a requirement to cover preventive services on a first dollar basis, and greater controls on premium rate increases for individual and small employer health insurance. It also provides for state insurance exchanges through which insurers and HMOs will, if qualified, be able to offer insured plans to individuals and small employers. In addition, the legislation imposes an excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored coverage and annual fees on insurance companies and HMOs, which will generally not be deductible for income tax purposes and therefore may adversely impact the Company’s effective tax rate. It also limits the amount of compensation for executives of insurers that is tax deductible. Certain of the law’s provisions became effective during 2010 and 2011 and others will take effect from 2012 to 2018. Health Care Reform left many of the details of the new law to be set forth through regulations. While federal agencies have published interim final regulations with respect to certain requirements, many issues remain uncertain, thus the full impact on the Company is not yet known. However, these changes could impact the Company significantly through: • potential disruption to the employer-based market, which is currently the primary business model for the Company’s Health Care segment; • causing employers to drop health care coverage for their employees; • potential cost shifting in the health care delivery system to health insurance companies and HMOs; • regulating business practices; • imposing new or increasing taxes and financial assessments; • limitations on the ability to increase premiums to meet costs (including denial or delays in approval and implementation of those rates); and • significant reductions in the growth of Medicare program payments. Accordingly, Health Care Reform, other regulatory reform initiatives or additional changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Medicare business acquired with HealthSpring presents additional risks for Cigna, as the Medicare program has been the subject of recent regulatory reform initiatives, including Health Care Reform. Because Medicare program premiums account for substantially all of the acquired business’s revenue, reductions or less than expected increases in funding for Medicare programs could significantly reduce the Company’s profitability, and non-renewal or termination of Medicare contracts would substantially impair the acquired business. There is considerable uncertainty about the future of Health Care Reform and it is difficult to predict the impact of Health Care Reform on the business due to the law’s complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, pending court challenges, and possible amendment. In particular, there are currently constitutional challenges on several parts of Health Care Reform, including the obligation to purchase health care coverage. The U.S. Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments on these constitutional challenges in late March 2012. The upcoming 2012 U.S. presidential election may also have a significant impact on the future of Health Care Reform. Cigna is unable to predict how these events will develop and what impact they will have on Health Care Reform, and in turn, on Cigna. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 33 Back to Contents For additional information on Health Care Reform, see the “Business—Regulation” section beginning on page 26 of this Form 10-K and the “Introduction” section of MD&A beginning on page 48 of this Form 10-K. See also the description of minimum medical loss ratio and customer rebate requirements in the “Business—D. Health Care—Funding Arrangements, Pricing, Reserves and Reinsurance” section beginning on page 4 of this Form 10-K. Cigna’s business is subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with new regulation, could increase its costs of doing business and have a material adverse effect on its profitability. Cigna’s business is regulated at the international, federal, state and local levels. The laws and rules governing Cigna’s business and related interpretations are increasing in number and complexity, are subject to frequent change and can be inconsistent or even conflict with each other. As a public company with global operations, Cigna is subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, labor and employment, consumer protection and anti-corruption. Cigna must identify, assess and respond to new trends in the legislative and regulatory environments as well as effectively comply with the various existing regulations applicable to its business. Existing or future laws and rules could force Cigna to change how it does business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase health care, technology and administrative costs, including pension costs and capital requirements, require enhancements to the Company’s compliance infrastructure and internal controls environment, take other actions such as changing its reserve levels with respect to certain reinsurance contracts, change business practices in disability payments and increase Cigna’s liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. In addition, Cigna must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of its products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to consummate some of its acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce the Company’s revenue or increase its costs. For further information on regulatory matters relating to Cigna, see “Regulation” in Section J beginning on page 26 and “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 beginning on page 44 of this Form 10-K. Cigna faces risks related to litigation, regulatory audits and investigations. Cigna is routinely involved in numerous claims, lawsuits, regulatory audits, investigations and other legal matters arising in the ordinary course of business, including that of administering and insuring employee benefit programs. Legal matters include benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, disputes regarding reinsurance arrangements, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, and intellectual property and real estate related disputes. In addition, Cigna incurs and likely will continue to incur liability for claims related to its health care business, such as failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, provider disputes, including disputes over compensation, and claims related to self-funded business. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against the industry. Court decisions and legislative activity may increase Cigna’s exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages may be sought. Cigna currently has insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be sufficient to cover the entire damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. It is possible that the resolution of one or more of the legal matters and claims described could result in losses material to Cigna’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A description of material legal actions and other legal matters in which Cigna is currently involved is included under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 beginning on page 44, Note 23 to Cigna’s Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 159 of this Form 10-K and “Regulation” in Section J beginning on page 26. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain, and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence or existing law can occur. Cigna believes that it has valid defenses to the legal matters pending against it and is defending itself vigorously. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 34 Back to Contents In addition, there is heightened review by federal and state regulators of health care and group disability insurance industry business and reporting practices. Cigna is frequently the subject of regulatory market conduct and other reviews, audits and investigations by state insurance and health and welfare departments, attorneys general, The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and, the Office of Inspector General (OIG). With respect to Cigna’s Medicare Advantage business, CMS and OIG perform audits to determine a health plan’s compliance with federal regulations and contractual obligations, including compliance with proper coding practices (sometimes referred to as Risk Adjustment Data Validation Audits or RADV audits) and compliance with fraud and abuse enforcement practices through Recovery Audit Contractor (RAC) audits in which third-party contractors conduct post-payment reviews on a contingency fee basis to detect and correct improper payments. These regulatory reviews could result in changes to or clarifications of Cigna’s business practices or retroactive adjustments to certain premiums, and also could result in significant fines, penalties, civil liabilities, criminal liabilities or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or results of operation. Business Risks Future performance of Cigna’s business will depend on the Company’s ability to execute on its strategic and operational initiatives effectively. The future performance of Cigna’s business will depend in large part on Cigna’s ability to effectively implement and execute its strategic and operational initiatives, which include: (1) repositioning the portfolio for growth in targeted geographies, product lines, buying segments and distribution channels; (2) improving its strategic and financial flexibility; and (3) pursuing additional opportunities in high-growth markets with particular focus on individuals. Successful execution of these strategic and operational initiatives depends on a number of factors including: • differentiating Cigna’s products and services from those of its competitors by leveraging its health advocacy capabilities and other strengths in targeted markets, geographies and buyer segments; • developing and introducing new products or programs, particularly in response to government regulation and the increased focus on consumer directed products; • identifying and introducing the proper mix or integration of products that will be accepted by the marketplace; • attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified employees; • effectively managing balance sheet exposures, including evaluating potential solutions for the Company’s run-off reinsurance business and pension funding obligation; • improving medical cost competitiveness in targeted markets; and • reducing Cigna HealthCare’s medical operating expenses to achieve sustainable benefits. If these initiatives fail or are not executed effectively, it could harm the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations. For example, reducing operating expenses while maintaining the necessary resources and the Company’s talent pool is important to the Company and, if not managed effectively, could have long-term effects on the business such as failure to maintain or improve the quality of its products and limiting its ability to retain or hire key personnel. In addition, in order to succeed, the Company must align its organization to its evolving strategy. Cigna must effectively integrate its operations, including the most recent HealthSpring acquisition, actively work to ensure consistency throughout the organization, and promote a global mind-set and a focus on individual customers. If the Company fails to do so, it may be unable to grow as planned, and the result of expansion may be unsatisfactory. Also, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment will require Cigna’s organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. The Company will be unable to do so if it does not make important decisions quickly, define its appetite for risk specifically, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes smoothly and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 35 Back to Contents As a multi-national company, Cigna’s international operations face political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that present challenges and could negatively affect those operations or the Company’s long-term growth. Cigna’s growth strategy involves expanding its foreign operations and entering targeted new markets outside of the U.S. As a result, Cigna’s business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by market, include political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks, including government intervention and censorship that the Company does not face in its U.S. operations. The global nature of Cigna’s business and operations presents challenges, including but not limited to those arising from: • varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; • discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets; • price controls or other pricing issues and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent it from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which it operates or converting local currencies that Cigna International holds into U.S. dollars or other currencies; • foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations that may have an impact on the future costs or on future sales and cash flows from the Company’s international operations, and any measures that it may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of its international operations may not be effective; • reliance on local sales forces for some of its operations in countries that may have labor problems and less flexible employee relationships, which can be difficult and expensive to terminate, or where changes in local regulation or law may disrupt the business operations; • risk associated with managing Cigna’s partner relationships in accordance with business objectives in countries where Cigna International voluntarily operates or is required to operate with local business partners; • challenges associated with managing more geographically diverse operations and projects; • the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; • political instability or acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics in locations where Cigna operates; and • general economic and political conditions. These factors may increase in importance as Cigna continues to expand globally, and any one of these challenges could negatively affect the Company’s operations or its long-term growth. Further, expansion into new markets may require considerable management time before any significant revenues and earnings are generated, which could divert management’s attention from other strategic activities. International operations also require the Company to devote significant management resources to implement its controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S. anti-bribery and anti-corruption as well as anti-money laundering provisions and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to overcome logistical and other challenges based on differing languages, cultures and time zones. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against the Company, its officers or employees, prohibitions on the conduct of its business, and reputational harm. Cigna must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must have effective change management processes and internal controls in place to address changes in its business and operations. Cigna’s success depends, in part, on its ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations, financial condition and long-term growth. Successful management of Cigna’s outsourcing projects and key vendors, including by taking steps to ensure that third parties who obtain access to sensitive personal information maintain its confidentiality and security, is important to its business. To improve operating costs, productivity and efficiencies, Cigna outsources selected functions to third parties. Cigna takes steps to monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties who provide services or to whom the Company delegates selected functions. These third parties include information technology system providers, independent practice associations, call center and claim service providers and various types of service providers. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 36 Back to Contents Arrangements with key vendors may make Cigna’s operations vulnerable if third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to the Company as a result of their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of Cigna’s control, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security and confidentiality of the Company’s information and data. Even though its contracts with third-party providers provide certain protection, the Company has limited control over their actions. Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security breach involving one of its third-party service providers could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. In addition, to the extent Cigna outsources selected services or selected functions to third parties in foreign jurisdictions, the Company could be exposed to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, including international economic and political conditions, additional costs associated with complying with foreign laws and fluctuations in currency values. The expanding role of third party providers may also require changes to Cigna’s existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers, as well as redistributing responsibilities as needed, in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies. Effective management, development and implementation of its outsourcing strategies are important to Cigna’s business and strategy. If there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes or its third party providers do not perform as anticipated, Cigna may not fully realize on a timely basis the anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other relationships it enters into with key vendors, which could result in substantial costs or regulatory compliance issues, divert management’s attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems for the Company. Terminating or transitioning arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs and a risk of operational delays, potential errors and possible control issues as a result of the termination or during the transition phase. Acquisitions, including HealthSpring, involve risks, and the Company may not realize the expected benefits because of integration difficulties, underperformance relative to Cigna’s expectations and other challenges. As part of the Company’s growth strategy, Cigna regularly considers strategic transactions, including acquisitions, with the expectation that these transactions will result in various benefits. Cigna’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether Cigna integrates its acquired companies in an efficient and effective manner, the performance of the acquired businesses and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in expected revenues, goodwill impairment charges, and diversion of management’s time and energy. Most recently, in January 2012, Cigna acquired HealthSpring, an operator of Medicare Advantage coordinated care plans in 11 states and the District of Columbia. The success of the HealthSpring acquisition will depend on Cigna’s ability to integrate HealthSpring with its existing businesses and the performance of the acquired business. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of HealthSpring include: implementing the Company’s business plan for the combined business; executing Cigna’s growth plans by leveraging its capabilities and those of the businesses being acquired in serving the Seniors segment; unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information, communications and other systems; changes in applicable laws and regulations or conditions imposed by regulators; retaining key employees; operating risks inherent in HealthSpring’s business and Cigna’s business; retaining and growing membership; renewing or successfully rebidding for contracts with CMS, leveraging the information technology platform of the acquired businesses; and unanticipated issues, costs, obligations and liabilities. If Cigna is unable to integrate the HealthSpring business successfully, or if the acquired business underperforms, it could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to mitigate the risk of fraud. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to result in Cigna’s systems and controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into the Company’s control system could cause it to fail to meet its financial reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of Cigna’s stock and its access to capital. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 37 Back to Contents Cigna’s business depends on its ability to properly maintain the integrity of its data and the uninterrupted operation of its systems and business functions, including information technology and other business systems. Cigna’s business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business. Cigna’s business strategy requires providing customers and health care professionals with Internet-enabled products and information to meet their needs. Cigna’s ability to adequately price its products and services, establish reserves, provide effective and efficient service to its customers, and to timely and accurately report its financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in its information systems. If the information Cigna relies upon to run its businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable due to fraud or other error, or if Cigna (or the third-party service parties it utilizes) were to fail to maintain information systems and data integrity effectively, the Company could experience difficulties with, among other things: operational disruptions (which may impact customers and health care professionals); determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; retaining and attracting customers; and regulatory compliance. In addition, Cigna’s business is highly dependent upon its ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, its necessary business functions, such as: claims processing and payment; internet support and customer call centers; and the processing of new and renewal business.Failure to comply with relevant regulations, a power outage, pandemic, or failure of one or more of information technology, telecommunications or other systems could cause slower system response times resulting in claims not being processed as quickly as clients desire, decreased levels of client service and client satisfaction, and harm to Cigna’s reputation. Because Cigna’s information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, Cigna could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of Cigna’s ability to pay claims in a timely manner, provide customer service, write and process new and renewal business, or perform other necessary corporate functions, and could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Computer systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If a cybersecurity breach of Cigna’s computer systems or the computer systems of a third-party service provider occurs, it could also interrupt Cigna’s operations and damage Cigna’s reputation. Cigna could also be subject to liability if sensitive customer information is misappropriated. Any publicized compromise of security could result in a loss of existing or new customers, increased operating expenses, financial losses, and additional litigation or other claims, which could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Effective investment in and execution of improvements in the Company’s information technology infrastructure and functionality are important to its strategy and failure to do so may impede its ability to deliver the services required in the evolving marketplace at a competitive cost. Cigna’s information technology strategy and execution are critical to the continued success of the Company. Increasing regulatory and legislative mandated changes will place additional demands on Cigna’s information technology infrastructure, which could have direct impact on available resources for projects more directly tied to strategic initiatives. The Company must continue to invest in long-term solutions that will enable it to anticipate customer needs and expectations, enhance the customer experience and act as a differentiator in the market. Cigna’s success is dependent, in large part, on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and continuing to deliver and enhance technology systems that support the Company’s business processes in a cost-efficient and resource-efficient manner. Cigna also must develop new systems to meet current market standards and keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and customer needs. Failure to do so may impede the Company’s ability to deliver services at a competitive cost. Furthermore, system development projects are long-term in nature, may be more costly than expected to complete and may not deliver the expected benefits upon completion. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 38 Back to Contents Effective prevention, detection and control systems are critical to maintain regulatory compliance and prevent fraud and failure of these systems could adversely affect the Company. Failure of Cigna’s prevention, detection or control systems related to regulatory compliance or the failure of employees to comply with Cigna’s internal policies, including data systems security or unethical conduct by managers and employees, could adversely affect Cigna’s reputation and also expose it to litigation and other proceedings, fines and penalties. Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud and abuse a priority. Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing, and violations of patient privacy rights. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to the Company are complex and subject to change. In addition, ongoing vigorous law enforcement, a highly technical regulatory scheme and the Dodd-Frank legislation and related regulations being adopted that enhance regulators’ enforcement powers and whistleblower incentives and protections, mean that its compliance efforts in this area will continue to require significant resources. In addition, provider or member fraud that is not prevented or detected could impact Cigna’s medical costs or those of its self-insured customers. Further, during an economic downturn, Cigna’s segments, including Health Care, Disability and Life and International, may see increased fraudulent claims volume which may lead to additional costs because of an increase in disputed claims and litigation. Cigna’s pharmacy benefit management business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, in addition to those Cigna faces with its health care business. Cigna’s pharmacy benefit management business is subject to federal and state regulation, including federal and state anti-remuneration laws, ERISA, HIPAA and laws related to the operation of Internet and mail-service pharmacies. Noncompliance with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. The Company’s pharmacy benefit management business would also be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and could suffer claims and reputational harm in connection with purported errors by Cigna’s mail order or retail pharmacy businesses. Disruptions at any of the Company’s pharmacy business facilities due to failure of technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce Cigna’s ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to customers, which could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In operating its onsite clinics and medical facilities, the Company may be subject to additional liability, which could result in significant time spent and expense and divert management’s attention from other strategic activities. The Company employs physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses and other health care professionals at onsite low acuity and primary care clinics it operates for the Company’s customers (as well as certain clinics for Company employees). Through the recently acquired HealthSpring business, Cigna also operates LivingWell health centers and health care practices for its customers. In addition, the Company owns and operates medical facilities in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area, including multispecialty health care centers, outpatient surgery and urgent care centers, low acuity clinics, laboratory, pharmacy and other operations that employ primary care as well as specialty care physicians and other types of health care professionals. As a direct employer of health care professionals and as an operator of primary and low-acuity care clinics and other types of medical facilities, the Company is subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of its employees. Even if any claims brought against the Company were unsuccessful or without merit, it would have to defend against such claims. The defense of any actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract management. As a result, Cigna may incur significant expenses which could have a material adverse effect on Cigna’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Cigna faces competitive pressure, particularly price competition, which could result in premiums which are insufficient to cover the cost of the health care services delivered to its members and inadequate medical claims reserves. While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service quality of clinical resources, claims administration services and medical management programs, and quality, sufficiency and cost effectiveness of health care professional network relationships, Cigna expects that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. Cigna’s customer contracts are subject to negotiation as customers seek to contain their costs, and customers may elect to reduce benefits in order to constrain increases in their benefit costs. Such an election may result in lower premiums for the Company’s products, and even though it may also reduce Cigna’s costs, it could still adversely affect Cigna’s financial results. Alternatively, the Company’s customers may purchase different types of products that are less profitable, or move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 39 Back to Contents Factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite increasing medical costs. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act gives banks and other financial institutions the ability to be affiliated with insurance companies, which may lead to new competitors with significant financial resources in the insurance and health benefits fields. The Company’s product margins and growth depend, in part, on its ability to compete effectively in its markets, set rates appropriately in highly competitive markets to keep or increase its market share, increase membership as planned, and avoid losing accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience. Cigna’s profitability depends, in part, on its ability to accurately predict and control future health care costs through underwriting criteria, provider contracting, utilization management and product design. Premiums in the health care business are generally fixed for one-year periods. Accordingly, future cost increases in excess of medical cost projections reflected in pricing cannot generally be recovered in the current contract year through higher premiums. Although Cigna bases the premiums it charges on its estimate of future health care costs over the fixed premium period, actual costs may exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums. Factors that may cause actual costs to exceed premiums include: medical cost inflation; higher than expected utilization of medical services; the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology; and membership mix. Cigna records medical claims reserves for estimated future payments. The Company continually reviews estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and makes necessary adjustments to its reserves. However, actual health care costs may exceed what was estimated. Cigna’s equity hedge program for its guaranteed minimum death benefits (“GMDB”) or guaranteed minimum income benefits (“GMIB”) contracts could fail to reduce the risk of stock market declines. As part of its Run-off Reinsurance business, Cigna reinsured a guaranteed minimum death benefit and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum income benefit, under certain variable annuities issued by other insurance companies. Cigna maintains a hedge program to reduce equity market risks related to these contracts by selling domestic and foreign-denominated exchange-traded futures contracts. The purpose of the equity hedge program is to reduce the adverse effects of potential future domestic and international stock market declines on Cigna’s liabilities for these contracts. Under the program, increases in liabilities under the annuity contracts from a declining equity market are offset by gains on the futures contracts. However, the program will not perfectly offset the change in the liability in part because the market does not offer futures contracts that exactly match the diverse mix of equity fund investments held by contractholders. The impact of this mismatch may be higher in periods of significant volatility and may result in higher losses to the Company. In addition, the number of futures contracts used in the program is adjusted only when certain tolerances are exceeded and in periods of highly volatile equity markets when actual volatility exceeds the expected volatility assumed in the liability calculation, losses will result. Further, Cigna could have difficulty in entering into appropriate futures contracts. See “Run-off Reinsurance” in Section G beginning on page 21 of this Form 10-K and Note 6 to Cigna’s Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 114, respectively of this Form 10-K for more information on this program. Actual experience could differ significantly from Cigna’s assumptions used in estimating Cigna’s liabilities for reinsurance contracts covering GMDB and GMIB. Cigna estimates reserves for GMDB and GMIB exposures based on assumptions regarding lapse, partial surrender, mortality, interest rates, volatility, reinsurance recoverables, and, for minimum income benefit exposures, annuity income election rates. These estimates are currently based on Cigna’s experience and future expectations. Cigna monitors actual experience to update these reserve estimates as necessary. Cigna regularly evaluates the assumptions used in establishing reserves and changes its estimates if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. There is a risk that Cigna’s estimated reserves are not sufficient to cover actual experience, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company could have losses attributable to its inability to recover amounts from retrocessionaires. See Notes 6 and 10 to Cigna’s Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on pages 114 and 125, respectively of this Form 10-K, for more information on assumptions used for the Company’s guaranteed minimum death benefit and minimum income benefit exposures. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 40 Back to Contents Significant stock market declines could result in larger net liabilities for GMDB contracts or for GMIB contracts, the recognition of additional pension obligations, increased funding for those obligations, and increased pension plan expenses. If a contract holder withdraws substantially all of its mutual fund investments from a GMDB contract (“partial surrender”), the liability increases reflecting the lower assumed future premiums, the lower likelihood of lapsation, and the lower likelihood of account values recovering sufficiently to reduce death benefit exposure in future periods. These effects are not covered by the Company’s equity hedge program. The Company calculates a provision for expected future partial surrenders as part of the liability for GMDB contracts. When equity markets decline, the provision for expected future partial surrenders increases, because contract holders have more of a financial incentive to perform a partial surrender. In these circumstances, there is no corresponding offset from the GMDB equity hedge program. When equity markets decline, the claim amounts that the Company expects to pay out for the GMIB business increases, which results in increased net liabilities and related losses. These increases are only partially offset from the GMIB equity hedge program. In addition, Cigna currently has unfunded obligations in its frozen pension plans. A significant decline in the value of the plan’s equity and fixed income investments or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially increase Cigna’s expenses and change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which could reduce the cash available to Cigna, including its subsidiaries. See Note 9 to Cigna’s Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 120 of this Form 10-K for more information on the Company’s obligations under the pension plan. Significant changes in market interest rates affect the value of Cigna’s financial instruments that promise a fixed return or benefit and the value of particular assets and liabilities. As an insurer, Cigna has substantial investment assets that support insurance and contractholder deposit liabilities. Generally low levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in United States financial markets during recent years, have negatively impacted the level of investment income earned by the Company in recent periods, and such lower levels of investment income would continue if these lower interest rates were to continue. Substantially all of the Company’s investment assets are in fixed interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities, fixed redeemable preferred securities and commercial mortgage loans. The value of these investment assets can fluctuate significantly with changes in market conditions. A rise in interest rates could reduce the value of the Company’s investment portfolio and increase interest expense if Cigna were to access its available lines of credit. The Company is also exposed to interest rate and equity risk associated with the Company’s pension and other post-retirement obligations. Sustained declines in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the funded status of the Company’s pension plans and the Company’s reinvestment yield on new investments. Changes in interest rates may also impact the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with the Company’s GMDB liabilities. Significant, sustained declines in interest rates could cause the Company to reduce these long-term assumptions, resulting in increased liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates impact the assumed market returns and the discount rate used in the fair value calculations for the Company’s liabilities for GMIB. Significant interest rate declines could significantly increase the Company’s liabilities for these contracts. As the 7-year Treasury rate (claim interest rate) declines, the claim amounts that the Company expects to pay out for the GMIB business increases. For a subset of the business, there is a contractually guaranteed floor of 3% for the claim interest rate. Significant interest rate declines could significantly increase the Company’s net liabilities for GMIB contracts because of increased exposures. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 41 Back to Contents A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of Cigna’s insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect new sales and retention of current business, and a downgrade in Cigna’s debt ratings would increase the cost of borrowed funds and affect ability to access capital. Financial strength, claims paying ability and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized ratings agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. Cigna believes the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of its principal insurance subsidiaries are an important factor in marketing its products to certain of Cigna’s customers. In addition, Cigna Corporation’s debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings, and accordingly, its cost of capital. Each of the rating agencies reviews Cigna’s ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. In addition, a downgrade of these ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital and to support business growth at Cigna’s insurance subsidiaries. Insurance ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. The principal agencies that rate Cigna’s insurance subsidiaries characterize their insurance rating scales as follows: • A.M. Best Company, Inc. (“A.M. Best”), A++ to S (“Superior” to “Suspended”); • Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), Aaa to C (“Exceptional” to “Lowest”); • Standard & Poor’s Corp. (“S&P”), AAA to R (“Extremely Strong” to “Regulatory Action”); and • Fitch, Inc. (“Fitch”), AAA to D (“Exceptionally Strong” to “Order of Liquidation”). As of February 23, 2012, the insurance financial strength ratings were as follows for the Cigna subsidiaries, CGLIC and Life Insurance Company of North America (“LINA”): CGLIC Insurance Ratings (1) LINA Insurance Ratings (1) A.M. Best A (“Excellent,” 3rd of 16) A (“Excellent,” 3rd of 16) Moody’s A2 (“Good,” 6th of 21) A2 (“Good,” 6th of 21) S&P A (“Strong,” 6th of 21) (Not Rated) Fitch A (“Strong,” 6th of 24) A (“Strong,” 6th of 24) (1) Includes the rating assigned, the agency’s characterization of the rating and the position of the rating in the agency’s rating scale (e.g., CGLIC’s rating by A.M. Best is the 3rd highest rating awarded in its scale of 16). CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 42 Back to Contents Global market, economic and geopolitical conditions may cause fluctuations in equity market prices, interest rates and credit spreads, which could impact the Company’s ability to raise or deploy capital as well as affect the Company’s overall liquidity. If the equity markets and credit market experience extreme volatility and disruption, there could be downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Extreme disruption in the credit markets could adversely impact the Company’s availability and cost of credit in the future. In addition, unpredictable or unstable market conditions or continued pressure in the global or U.S. economy could result in reduced opportunities to find suitable opportunities to raise capital. In November 2011, Cigna issued $2.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes to finance part of the cost for the HealthSpring acquisition, which increased the Company’s long-term debt to $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2011. Cigna’s increased debt obligations could make the Company more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and require the Company to dedicate increased cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the funds it has available for other purposes, such as investments in ongoing businesses, acquisitions, dividends and stock repurchases. In these circumstances, the Company’s ability to execute on its strategy may be limited, its flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in its business and market conditions may be reduced, or its access to capital markets may be limited such that additional capital may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2011 Form 10-K – 43 Back to Contents ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 