Item 1A. RISK FACTORS CIGNA’s businesses face risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report. These factors represent risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on CIGNA’s business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones CIGNA faces. Others that CIGNA does not know about now, or that the Company does not now think are significant, may impair its business or the trading price of its securities. The following are significant risks identified by CIGNA. If CIGNA does not execute on its strategic initiatives, there could be a material adverse effect on CIGNA’s results of operations and in certain situations, CIGNA's financial condition. The future performance of CIGNA’s business will depend in large part on CIGNA’s ability to execute effectively and implement its strategic initiatives. These initiatives include: executing CIGNA's consumerism strategy, including designing products to meet emerging market trends and ensuring that an appropriate infrastructure is in place to meet the needs of customers and members; continuing to reduce medical costs; growing its individual and small business market and emerging market and further penetration of the specialty markets; and further improving the efficiency of operations, including lowering operating costs and enabling higher value services. Successful execution of these initiatives depends on a number of factors including: · the ability to gain and retain customers and members by providing appropriate levels of support and service for CIGNA’s products, as well as avoiding service and health advocacy related errors; · the ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees; · the negotiation of favorable provider contracts; · CIGNA's ability to develop and introduce new products or programs, because of the inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development, particularly in response to government regulation or the increased focus on consumer directed products; · the identification and introduction of the proper mix or integration of products that will be accepted by the marketplace; and · the ability of CIGNA’s products and services to differentiate CIGNA from its competitors and for CIGNA to demonstrate that these products and services (such as disease management and health advocacy programs, provider credentialing and other quality care initiatives) result in improved health outcomes and reduced costs. Further, CIGNA’s success will depend upon its ability to develop new systems and enhance the performance of its existing procedures and processes to adequately support CIGNA's operations, strategies and business objectives. If CIGNA fails to properly maintain the integrity or security of its data or to strategically implement new information systems, there could be a material adverse effect on CIGNA’s business. CIGNA’s business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business. CIGNA’s business strategy requires providing members and providers with internet or e-business related products and information to meet their needs. CIGNA’s ability to adequately price its products and services, establish reserves, provide effective and efficient service to its customers, and to timely and accurately report its financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in its information systems. If the information CIGNA relies upon to run its businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if CIGNA were to fail to maintain effectively its information systems and data integrity, the Company could have problems with, among other things: operational disruptions; determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; customers, physicians and other health care providers; regulators; increases in operating expenses; and retention and attraction of customers. If CIGNA were unable to maintain the security of any sensitive data residing on the Company’s systems whether due to our own actions or those of any vendors, our reputation would be adversely affected and we could be exposed to litigation or other actions, fines or penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business or financial condition. CIGNA requires an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. There can be no assurance that CIGNA’s process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support its operations, integrating new systems and improving service levels will not be delayed or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. 31 If premiums are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to members, or if CIGNA’s estimates of medical claim reserves for its guaranteed cost and experience-rated businesses based upon estimates of future medical claims are inadequate, profitability could decline. CIGNA’s profitability depends, in part, on its ability to accurately predict and control future health care costs through underwriting criteria, provider contracting, utilization management and product design. Premiums in the health benefits business are generally fixed for one-year periods. Accordingly, future cost increases in excess of medical cost projections reflected in pricing cannot generally be recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. Although CIGNA bases the premiums it charges on its estimate of future health care costs over the fixed premium period, actual costs may exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums. Factors that may cause actual costs to exceed premiums include: medical cost inflation; the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology; and membership mix. CIGNA records medical claims reserves for estimated future payments. The Company continually reviews estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and makes necessary adjustments to its reserves. However, actual health care costs may exceed what was estimated. If CIGNA fails to manage successfully its outsourcing projects and key vendors, CIGNA’s financial results could be harmed. CIGNA takes steps to monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties who provide services or to whom the Company delegates selected functions. These third parties include information technology system providers, independent practice associations and specialty service providers. For instance, in 2006, CIGNA entered into an agreement with IBM to operate significant portions of its information technology infrastructure, including the provision of services relating to its call center application, enterprise content management, risk-based capital analytical infrastructure and voice and data communications and network in addition to the software applications and human resource operations support IBM had previously provided pursuant to several smaller contracts. The 2006 contract with IBM includes several service level agreements, or SLAs, related to issues such as performance and job disruption with significant financial penalties if these SLAs are not met. However, the Company may not be adequately indemnified against all possible losses through the terms and conditions of the agreement. In addition, some of CIGNA’s termination rights are contingent upon payment of a fee, which may be significant. If CIGNA's relationship with IBM is terminated, the Company may experience disruption of service to customers, which could affect CIGNA's business, financial condition, and results of operations. These arrangements with key vendors may make CIGNA’s operations vulnerable if those third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to the Company, due to CIGNA’s failure to adequately monitor and regulate their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of CIGNA’s control. In recent years, certain third parties to whom CIGNA delegated selected functions, such as specialty services providers, have experienced legal and other difficulties, which may subject CIGNA to adverse publicity, increased costs, decline in quality of service and potential network disruptions, and in some cases cause the Company to incur increased claims expense. Certain legislative authorities have in recent periods discussed or proposed legislation that would restrict outsourcing and, if enacted, could materially increase CIGNA’s costs. Further, CIGNA may not fully realize on a timely basis the anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other relationships it enters into with key vendors which could result in substantial costs or other operational or financial problems that could adversely impact the Company’s financial results. A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of CIGNA’s insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect new sales and retention of current business, and a downgrade in CIGNA's debt ratings would increase the cost of borrowed funds. Financial strength, claims paying ability and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized ratings agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. CIGNA believes the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of its principal insurance subsidiaries are an important factor in marketing its products to certain of CIGNA’s customers. In addition, CIGNA Corporation’s debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings, and accordingly, its cost of capital. Each of the rating agencies reviews CIGNA’s ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in 32 the future. In addition, a downgrade of these ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital and to support business growth at CIGNA’s insurance subsidiaries. As of February 26, 2007, the insurance financial strength ratings for CG Life, the Company’s principal insurance subsidiary, were as follows: CG Life Insurance Ratings(1) A.M. Best A (“Excellent,” 3rd of 16) Moody’s A2 (“Good,” 6th of 21) S&P A- (“Strong,” 7th of 21) Fitch A (“Strong,” 6th of 24) ___________ (1) Includes the rating assigned, the agency’s characterization of the rating and the position of the rating in the agency’s rating scale (e.g., CG Life’s rating by A.M. Best is the 3rd highest awarded in its scale of 16). A description of CIGNA Corporation ratings, other subsidiary ratings, as well as more information on these ratings, is included in “Ratings” in Section K beginning on page 28. Unfavorable claims experience related to workers’ compensation and personal accident insurance exposures in CIGNA’s Run-off Reinsurance business could result in losses. Unfavorable claims experience related to workers’ compensation and personal accident insurance exposures in CIGNA’s run-off reinsurance business is possible and could result in future losses. Further, CIGNA could have losses attributable to its inability to recover amounts from retrocessionaires or ceding companies either due to disputes with the retrocessionaires or ceding companies or their financial condition. If CIGNA’s reserves for amounts recoverable from retrocessionaires or ceding companies, as well as reserves associated with underlying reinsurance exposures are insufficient, it could result in losses. If CIGNA’s program for its guaranteed minimum death benefits contracts fails to reduce the risk of stock market declines, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. As part of its run-off reinsurance business, CIGNA reinsured a guaranteed minimum death benefit under certain variable annuities issued by other insurance companies. CIGNA adopted a program to reduce equity market risks related to these contracts by selling domestic and foreign-denominated exchange-traded futures contracts and foreign currency forward contracts. The purpose of this program is to reduce the adverse effects of potential future domestic and international stock market declines on CIGNA’s liabilities for these contracts. Under the program, increases in liabilities under the annuity contracts from a declining market are offset by gains on the futures contracts. However, if CIGNA were to have difficulty in entering into appropriate futures or forward contracts, or stock market declines expose CIGNA to higher rates of partial surrender (which are not covered by the program), there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. See “Run-off Reinsurance” in Section I on page 23 for more information on the program. If actual experience differs significantly from CIGNA’s assumptions used in estimating CIGNA’s liabilities for reinsurance contracts that guarantee minimum death benefits or minimum income benefits, it could have a material adverse effect on CIGNA’s consolidated results of operations, and in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on CIGNA's financial condition. CIGNA’s management estimates reserves for guaranteed minimum death benefit and minimum income benefit exposures are based on assumptions regarding lapse, partial surrender, mortality, interest rates, volatility, reinsurance recoverables, and, for minimum income benefit exposures, annuity income election rates. These estimates are based on CIGNA’s experience and future expectations. CIGNA monitors actual experience to update these reserve estimates as necessary. CIGNA regularly evaluates the assumptions used in establishing reserves and changes its estimates if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. 33 Significant stock market declines could result in increased pension plan expenses and the recognition of additional pension obligations. CIGNA has a pension plan that covers a large number of current employees and retirees. Unfavorable investment performance due to significant stock market declines or changes in estimates of benefit costs, if significant, could adversely affect CIGNA’s results of operations or financial condition by significantly increasing its pension plan expenses and obligations. Significant changes in market interest rates affect the value of CIGNA's financial instruments that promise a fixed return and, as such, could have an adverse effect on CIGNA's results of operations. As an insurer, CIGNA has substantial investment assets that support its policy liabilities. Generally low levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in United States financial markets during recent years, have negatively impacted the level of investment income earned by the Company in recent periods, and such lower levels of investment income would continue if these lower interest rates were to continue. Substantially all of the Company’s investment assets are in fixed interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities, fixed redeemable preferred securities, mortgage loans and real estate. The value of these securities can fluctuate significantly with changes in market conditions. CIGNA faces risks related to litigation and regulatory investigations. CIGNA is routinely involved in numerous claims, lawsuits, regulatory audits, investigations and other legal matters arising in the ordinary course of the business of administering and insuring employee benefit programs, including benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, and disputes regarding reinsurance arrangements. In addition, CIGNA incurs and likely will continue to incur liability for claims related to its health care business, such as failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, provider disputes, including disputes over compensation, and claims related to self-funded business. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against the industry. In addition, CIGNA is involved in pending and threatened litigation arising out of its run-off reinsurance and retirement operations. Court decisions and legislative activity may increase CIGNA’s exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages may be sought. CIGNA currently has insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. A description of material legal actions in which CIGNA is currently involved is included under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 on pages 37 and 38, and Note 20 to CIGNA’s 2006 Financial Statements included in its 2006 Annual Report. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain, and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence can occur. CIGNA believes that it has valid defenses to the legal matters pending against it and is defending itself vigorously. Nevertheless, it is possible that resolution of one or more legal matters could result in losses material to CIGNA’s consolidated results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. CIGNA’s business is subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with new regulation, could increase its costs of doing business and could adversely affect its profitability. CIGNA’s business is regulated at the international, federal, state and local levels. The laws and rules governing CIGNA’s business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force CIGNA to change how it does business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase health care, technology and administrative costs including pension costs and capital requirements, take other actions such as changing our reserve levels with respect to certain reinsurance contracts, and increase CIGNA’s liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. CIGNA must comply with the various regulations applicable to its business. If CIGNA fails to comply, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. In addition, CIGNA must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of its products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to consummate some of its acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce the Company’s revenue or increase its costs. 34 For further information on regulatory matters relating to CIGNA, see “Regulation” in Section J on page 25 and “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 on pages 37 and 38, as well as “Regulatory and Industry Developments” in the MD&A section of CIGNA’s 2006 Annual Report. CIGNA faces competitive pressure, particularly price competition, which could reduce product margins and constrain growth in CIGNA’s health care businesses. While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service quality of clinical resources, claims administration services and medical management programs, and quality and sufficiency of provider networks, CIGNA expects that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. CIGNA’s customer contracts are subject to negotiation as customers seek to contain their costs, and customers may elect to reduce benefits in order to constrain increases in their benefit costs. Such an election may result in lower premiums for the Company’s products, although it may also reduce CIGNA’s costs. Alternatively, the Company’s customers may purchase different types of products from it that are less profitable, or move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the health care industry giving rise to speculation and uncertainty regarding the status of companies, which potentially can affect marketing efforts and public perception. Consolidation may make it more difficult for the Company to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which CIGNA does business with its suppliers, or to maintain its position or increase profitability. Factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite increasing medical costs. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act gives banks and other financial institutions the ability to affiliate with insurance companies, which may lead to new competitors with significant financial resources in the insurance and health benefits fields. If CIGNA does not compete effectively in its markets, if the Company sets rates too high in highly competitive markets to keep or increase its market share, if membership does not increase as it expects, or if it declines, or if CIGNA loses accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, CIGNA’s product margins and growth could be adversely affected. Public perception of CIGNA's products and practices as well as of the health benefits industry, if negative, could reduce enrollment in CIGNA’s health benefits programs. The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which can arise either from perceptions regarding the industry or CIGNA's business practices or products. This risk may be increased as CIGNA offers new products, such as products with limited benefits or an integrated line of products, targeted at market segments, beyond those in which CIGNA traditionally has operated. Negative publicity may adversely affect the CIGNA brand and its ability to market its products and services, which could reduce the number of enrollees in CIGNA's health benefits programs and adversely affect CIGNA’s profitability. Large-scale public health epidemics, bio-terrorist activity, natural disasters or other extreme events could cause CIGNA’s covered medical and disability expenses, pharmacy costs and mortality experience to rise significantly, and in severe circumstances, could cause operational disruption. If widespread public health epidemics such as an influenza pandemic, bio-terrorist or other attack, or catastrophic natural disaster were to occur, CIGNA’s covered medical and disability expenses, pharmacy costs and mortality experience could rise significantly, depending on the government’s actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and insurers. In addition, depending on the severity of the situation, a widespread outbreak could curtail economic activity in general, and CIGNA's operations in particular, which could result in operational and financial disruption to CIGNA, which among other things may impact the timeliness of claims and revenue. CIGNA’s business and financial condition could also be adversely affected if the Company does not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for its facilities and operations in the event of a natural disaster. CIGNA faces a wide range of risks, and its success depends on its ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage its enterprise risk exposure. As a large company operating in a complex industry, CIGNA encounters a variety of risks as identified in this Risk Factor discussion. CIGNA devotes resources to developing enterprise-wide risk management processes, in addition to the risk management processes within its businesses. Failure to appropriately identify and manage these risks, as well as the failure to identify and take advantage of 35 appropriate opportunities, can materially affect CIGNA’s profitability, its ability to retain or grow business, or, in the event of extreme circumstances, CIGNA’s financial condition. CIGNA faces risks relating to its ability to effectively deploy its capital. CIGNA’s operations have generated significant capital in recent periods and the Company has significant ability to raise additional capital. In deploying its capital to fund its investments in operations, share repurchases, potential acquisitions or other capital uses, CIGNA's financial results could be adversely affected if it does not appropriately balance its risks and opportunities. CIGNA is subject to potential changes in the political environment which affects public policy and can adversely affect the markets for our products. While it is not possible to predict when and whether fundamental policy changes would occur, these could include policy changes on the local, state and federal level that could fundamentally change the dynamics of CIGNA’s industry, such as a much larger role of the government in the health care arena. Changes in public policy could materially affect CIGNA's profitability, its ability to retain or grow business, or in the event of extreme circumstances, its financial condition. 36 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 