ITEM 1A Risk Factors As a large company operating in a complex industry, CIGNA encounters a variety of risks and uncertainties including those identified in this Risk Factor discussion and elsewhere in this report. CIGNA devotes resources to developing enterprise-wide risk management processes, in addition to the risk management processes within its businesses. These factors represent risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on CIGNA’s business, liquidity, results of operations or financial condition. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones CIGNA faces. Other risks and uncertainties that CIGNA does not know about now, or that the Company does not now think are significant and does not appropriately identify and manage, may impair its business or the trading price of its securities. The following are significant risks identified by CIGNA. Business Risks Future performance of CIGNA’s business will depend on the Company’s ability to execute on its strategic and operational initiatives effectively. The future performance of CIGNA’s business will depend in large part on CIGNA’s ability to implement and execute effectively its growth strategy. These strategic and operational initiatives include: (1) growth in targeted geographies, product lines, buying segments and distribution channels; (2) improving its strategic and financial flexibility; and (3) pursuing additional opportunities in high-growth markets with particular focus on individuals. Successful execution of these strategic and operational initiatives depends on a number of factors including: • differentiating CIGNA’s products and services from those of its competitors by leveraging its health advocacy capabilities and other strengths in targeted markets, geographies and buyer segments; • developing and introducing new products or programs, because of the inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development, particularly in response to government regulation or the increased focus on consumer directed products; • identifying and introducing the proper mix or integration of products that will be accepted by the marketplace; • attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified employees; • effectively managing balance sheet exposures, including evaluating potential solutions for the Company’s run-off reinsurance business and pension funding obligation; • improving medical cost competitiveness in targeted markets; and • reducing CIGNA HealthCare’s medical operating expenses to achieve sustainable benefits. If these initiatives fail or are not executed effectively, it could harm the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations. For example, the plan to reduce operating expenses while maintaining the necessary resources and the Company’s talent pool is important to the Company and if not managed effectively could have long-term effects on the business by decreasing or slowing improvements in its products and limiting its ability to retain or hire key personnel. In addition, in order to succeed, the Company must align its organization to its evolving strategy. CIGNA must effectively integrate its operations, actively work to ensure consistency throughout the organization, and promote a global mind-set. If the Company fails to do so, it may be unable to grow as planned, and the result of expansion may be unsatisfactory. Also, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment will require CIGNA’s organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. The Company will be unable to do so if it does not make important decisions quickly, define its appetite for risk specifically, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes smoothly and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly. As a multi-national company, CIGNA’s international operations face political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that present challenges and could negatively affect those operations or our long-term growth. CIGNA’s growth strategy involves expanding our foreign operations including South Korea, China, Spain, Turkey, Indonesia and India and entering into targeted new markets outside of the U.S. As a result, CIGNA’s business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by market, include political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks, including government intervention and censorship that the Company does not face in its U.S. operations. The global nature of CIGNA’s business and operations presents challenges, including but not limited to those arising from: • varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; • discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets; CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 33 Back to Contents • price controls or other pricing issues and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent it from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which it operates or converting local currencies that CIGNA International holds into U.S. dollars or other currencies; • foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations that may have an impact on the future costs or on future sales and cash flows from the Company’s international operations, and any measures that it may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of its international operations may not be effective; • reliance on local sales forces for some of its operations in these countries that may have labor problems and less flexible employee relationships which can be difficult and expensive to terminate, or where changes in local regulation or law may disrupt the business operations. In some countries, CIGNA International voluntarily operates or is required to operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the business objectives; • challenges associated with managing more geographically diverse operations and projects; • the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; • political instability or acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics in locations where CIGNA operates. For example, CIGNA International’s largest geographic market is South Korea which has recently been subject to increased tension and disputes with North Korea; and • general economic and political conditions. These factors may increase in importance as we continue to expand globally. Further, expansion into new markets may require considerable management time before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. International operations also require the Company to devote significant management resources to implement its controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S. anti-bribery and anti-corruption as well as anti-money laundering provisions and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to overcome logistical and other challenges based on differing languages, cultures and time zones. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against the Company, its officers or employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of its business. CIGNA must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must have effective change management processes and internal controls in place to address changes in its business and operations. CIGNA’s success depends, in part, on its ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. The Company monitors its international operations and investigates allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. Where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. Successful management of CIGNA’s outsourcing projects and key vendors is important to its business. To improve operating costs, productivity and efficiencies, CIGNA outsources selected functions to third parties. CIGNA takes steps to monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties who provide services or to whom the Company delegates selected functions. These third parties include information technology system providers, independent practice associations, call center and claim service providers and types of service providers. Arrangements with key vendors may make CIGNA’s operations vulnerable if third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to the Company as a result of their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of CIGNA’s control, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security and confidentiality of the Company’s information and data. In addition, to the extent CIGNA outsources selected services or selected functions to third parties in foreign jurisdictions, the Company could be exposed to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, including international economic and political conditions, additional costs associated with complying with foreign laws and fluctuations in currency values. The expanding role of third party providers may also require changes to CIGNA’s existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers, as well as redistributing responsibilities as needed, in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies. Effective management, development and implementation of its outsourcing strategies are important to CIGNA’s business and strategy. If there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes or its third party providers do not perform as anticipated, CIGNA may not fully realize on a timely basis the anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other relationships it enters into with key vendors, which could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems for the Company. Terminating or transitioning arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs and a risk of operational delays, potential errors and possible control issues as a result of the termination or during the transition phase. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 34 Back to Contents In 2006, CIGNA entered into an agreement with IBM to operate certain software applications and significant portions of CIGNA’s information technology infrastructure, including the provision of services relating to its call center application, enterprise content management, risk-based capital analytical infrastructure and voice and data communications network. This contract includes several service level agreements, or SLAs, related to issues such as performance and job disruption with significant financial penalties if these SLAs are not met. However, the Company may not be adequately indemnified against all possible losses through the terms and conditions of the agreement and the fees paid could be a subject of dispute between the parties. In addition, some of CIGNA’s termination rights are contingent upon payment of a fee, which may be significant. If CIGNA’s relationship with IBM is abruptly terminated, the Company’s customers may experience disruption of service. Effective investment in and execution of improvements in the Company’s information technology infrastructure and functionality are important to its strategy and failure to do so may impede its ability to deliver the services required in the evolving marketplace at a competitive cost or to strategically implement new information systems. CIGNA’s information technology strategy and execution are critical to the continued success of the Company. Increasing regulatory and legislative mandated changes will place additional demands on CIGNA’s information technology infrastructure which could have direct impact on available resources for projects more directly tied to strategic initiatives. The marketplace is evolving and the level of service that is acceptable to customers today will not necessarily be acceptable tomorrow. The Company must continue to invest in long-term solutions that will enable it to meet customer expectations, enhance the customer experience and act as a differentiator in the market. CIGNA’s success is dependent, in large part, on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and continuing to deliver and enhance technology systems that support the Company’s business processes in a cost-efficient and resource-efficient manner. CIGNA also must develop new systems to meet the current market standard and keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and customer needs. System development projects are long term in nature, may be more costly than expected to complete and may not deliver the expected benefits upon completion. CIGNA’s business depends on its ability to properly maintain the integrity or security of its data. CIGNA’s business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business. CIGNA’s business strategy requires providing members and providers with Internet-enabled products and information to meet their needs. CIGNA’s ability to adequately price its products and services, establish reserves, provide effective and efficient service to its customers, and to timely and accurately report its financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in its information systems. If the information CIGNA relies upon to run its businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable due to fraud or other error, or if CIGNA were to fail to maintain effectively its information systems and data integrity, the Company could have problems with, among other things: operational disruptions, which may impact customers, physicians and other health care providers; determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; retaining and attracting customers; and regulatory compliance. Maintaining the security of any sensitive data residing on the Company’s systems is critical to CIGNA’s reputation. Failure to do so could expose the Company to litigation or other actions, fines or penalties. CIGNA operates a pharmacy benefit management business, onsite clinics, and medical facilities, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, in addition to those CIGNA faces with its health care business. CIGNA’s pharmacy benefit management business is subject to federal and state regulation, including federal and state anti-remuneration laws, ERISA, HIPAA and laws related to the operation of Internet and mail-service pharmacies. The Company’s pharmacy benefit management business would also be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and could suffer claims and reputational harm in connection with purported errors by CIGNA’s mail order or retail pharmacy businesses. Disruptions at any of the Company’s pharmacy business facilities due to failure of technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce CIGNA’s ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to customers. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 35 Back to Contents The Company employs physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses and other health care professionals at onsite low acuity and primary care clinics it operates for the Company’s customers (as well as certain clinics for Company employees). The Company also owns and operates medical facilities in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area, including multispecialty health care centers, outpatient surgery and urgent care centers, low acuity clinics, laboratory, pharmacy and other operations that employ primary care as well as specialty care physicians and other types of health care professionals. As a direct employer of health care professionals and as an operator of primary and low-acuity care clinics and other types of medical facilities, the Company is subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of its employees. Even if any claims brought against the Company were unsuccessful or without merit, it would have to defend against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract management’s attention. As a result, CIGNA may incur significant expenses and the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected. CIGNA faces competitive pressure, particularly price competition, which could result in premiums which are insufficient to cover the cost of the healthcare services delivered to its members and inadequate medical claims reserves. While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service quality of clinical resources, claims administration services and medical management programs, and quality, sufficiency and cost effectiveness of health care professional network relationships, CIGNA expects that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition. CIGNA’s customer contracts are subject to negotiation as customers seek to contain their costs, and customers may elect to reduce benefits in order to constrain increases in their benefit costs. Such an election may result in lower premiums for the Company’s products, although it may also reduce CIGNA’s costs. Alternatively, the Company’s customers may purchase different types of products that are less profitable, or move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. Factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite increasing medical costs. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act gives banks and other financial institutions the ability to affiliate with insurance companies, which may lead to new competitors with significant financial resources in the insurance and health benefits fields. The Company’s product margins and growth depend, in part on its ability to compete effectively in its markets, set rates appropriately in highly competitive markets to keep or increase its market share, increase membership as planned, and avoid losing accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience. CIGNA’s profitability depends, in part, on its ability to accurately predict and control future health care costs through underwriting criteria, provider contracting, utilization management and product design. Premiums in the health care business are generally fixed for one-year periods. Accordingly, future cost increases in excess of medical cost projections reflected in pricing cannot generally be recovered in the current contract year through higher premiums. Although CIGNA bases the premiums it charges on its estimate of future health care costs over the fixed premium period, actual costs may exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums. Factors that may cause actual costs to exceed premiums include: medical cost inflation; higher than expected utilization of medical services; the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology; and membership mix. CIGNA records medical claims reserves for estimated future payments. The Company continually reviews estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and makes necessary adjustments to its reserves. However, actual health care costs may exceed what was estimated. Public perception of the health benefits industry, if negative, could reduce enrollment in CIGNA’s health benefits programs. The health care industry in general is subject to negative publicity, which can arise either from perceptions regarding the industry and its business practices or products. This risk may be increased as the industry offers new products, such as products with limited benefits or develops new types of arrangements with business partners beyond those in which it traditionally has operated. Negative publicity related to the industry may adversely impact the CIGNA brand, its ability to market its products and services and its relationships with its healthcare professionals, which could reduce the number of enrollees in CIGNA’s health benefits programs. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 36 Back to Contents Acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect CIGNA’s business. As part of our growth strategy, CIGNA regularly considers strategic transactions, including acquisitions. For example, in 2010, the Company acquired Vanbreda International and Kronos Optimal Health Company with the expectation that these acquisitions will result in various benefits, including, among others, a broader distribution network in certain geographic areas, an expanded range of health benefits and products, cost savings, and increased profitability of the acquired businesses by improving operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether CIGNA integrates its acquired companies in an efficient and effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy. In addition, effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to result in CIGNA’s systems and controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. The Company devotes significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, CIGNA cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that it designs, implements and maintains adequate control over its financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into the Company’s control system could harm its operating results or cause it to fail to meet its financial reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of CIGNA’s stock and its access to capital. Regulatory and Litigation Risks CIGNA faces risks related to litigation and regulatory investigations. CIGNA is routinely involved in numerous claims, lawsuits, regulatory audits, investigations and other legal matters arising in the ordinary course of business, including that of administering and insuring employee benefit programs. Such legal matters include benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, disputes regarding reinsurance arrangements, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, and intellectual property and real estate related disputes. In addition, CIGNA incurs and likely will continue to incur liability for claims related to its health care business, such as failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, provider disputes, including disputes over compensation, and claims related to self-funded business. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against the industry. Court decisions and legislative activity may increase CIGNA’s exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages may be sought. CIGNA currently has insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be sufficient to cover the entire damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. It is possible that the resolution of one or more of the legal matters and claims described could result in losses material to CIGNA’s consolidated results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. A description of material legal actions and other legal matters in which CIGNA is currently involved is included under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 beginning on page 43, Note 24 to CIGNA’s Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 159 of this Form 10-K and “Regulation” in Section J beginning on page 26. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain, and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence or existing law can occur. CIGNA believes that it has valid defenses to the legal matters pending against it and is defending itself vigorously. In addition, there is heightened review by federal and state regulators of health care and group disability insurance industry business and reporting practices. CIGNA is frequently the subject of regulatory market conduct and other reviews, audits and investigations by state insurance and health and welfare departments, attorneys general, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and, the Office of Inspector General. These regulatory reviews could result in changes to or clarifications of our business practices, and also could result in significant fines, penalties, civil liabilities, criminal liabilities or other sanctions. For example, in February 2009, CIGNA and the New York Attorney General announced an agreement relating to an industry-wide investigation into certain payment practices with respect to out-of-network providers. As a result of that agreement, CIGNA contributed $10 million towards the establishment of a new non-profit company that would compile and create an independent database system to provide fee information regarding out-of-network reimbursement rates. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 37 Back to Contents CIGNA’s business is subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with new regulation, could increase its costs of doing business and could adversely affect its profitability. CIGNA’s business is regulated at the international, federal, state and local levels. The laws and rules governing CIGNA’s business and related interpretations are increasing in number and complexity, subject to frequent change and can be inconsistent or even conflicting with each other. As a public company with global operations, CIGNA is subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, labor and employment, consumer protection and anti-corruption. CIGNA must identify, assess and respond to new trends in the legislative and regulatory environments as well as effectively comply with the various existing regulations applicable to its business. Existing or future laws and rules could force CIGNA to change how it does business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase health care, technology and administrative costs including pension costs and capital requirements, require enhancements to the Company’s compliance infrastructure and internal controls environment, take other actions such as changing its reserve levels with respect to certain reinsurance contracts, change business practices in disability payments and increase CIGNA’s liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. In addition, CIGNA must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of its products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to consummate some of its acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce the Company’s revenue or increase its costs. For further information on regulatory matters relating to CIGNA, see “Regulation” in Section J beginning on page 26 and “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 beginning on page 43 of this Form 10-K. Health care reform legislation, as well as potential additional changes in federal or state regulations could adversely affect CIGNA’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. During the first quarter of 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as well as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law, which will result in significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time. The legislation includes a requirement that most individuals maintain a minimum level of health insurance coverage beginning in 2014 and also a requirement that most large employers offer coverage to their employees or they will be required to pay a financial penalty. In addition, the legislation imposes an excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored coverage and an annual fee on insurance companies and HMOs which will not be deductible for income tax purposes. It also limits the amount of compensation for executives of insurers that this tax deductible. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also imposes new regulations on the health insurance sector, including, but not limited to, guaranteed coverage/renewal requirements, prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime benefit limits, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage, establishment of minimum medical loss ratio/enrollee rebate requirements, a requirement to cover preventive services on a first dollar basis, the establishment of state insurance exchanges and essential benefit packages and greater controls on premium rate increases for health insurance. Some of the health insurance reform provisions in the new law became effective immediately upon enactment while others take effect for group health plans and individual insurance policies with the first policy or plan year occurring on and after September 23, 2010 (six months from the enactment of the legislation) including those requiring coverage of preventive services with no enrollee cost-sharing, banning the use of lifetime and certain limits on benefits, increasing restrictions on rescinding coverage and extending coverage of dependents to the age of 26. The minimum medical loss ratio requirements for health insurance companies and HMOs became effective beginning in January 2011. Other significant changes, including the annual fees on health insurance companies, the excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored coverage, the guaranteed issue and renewal requirements and the requirement that individuals maintain coverage, do not become effective until 2014 or later. These changes could impact the Company significantly through: • potential disruption to the employer based market, which is currently the primary business model for the Company’s Health Care segment; • potential cost shifting in the health care delivery system to health insurance companies and HMOs; and • limitations on the ability to increase premiums to meet costs. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 38 Back to Contents The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act left many of the details of the new law to be established through regulations. While federal agencies have published interim final regulations with respect to many requirements, many issues remain unresolved. For example, the Department of Health and Human Services released interim final regulations in November 2010 which provided a special methodology for calculating medical loss ratios for 2011 for the expatriate insurance business and limited benefit plans while also stating that it intends to study the data in determining whether special accommodations will be made for these plans in 2012 and future years. While health care reform presents the Company with new business opportunities which may increase membership in CIGNA’s health plans, it may also cause employers to drop health care coverage for their employees; it is possible that the Company’s business operations and financial results could be adversely affected by health care reform. Financial Risks CIGNA’s equity hedge program for its guaranteed minimum death benefits contracts could fail to reduce the risk of stock market declines. As part of its Run-off Reinsurance business, CIGNA reinsured a guaranteed minimum death benefit under certain variable annuities issued by other insurance companies. CIGNA maintains a hedge program to reduce equity market risks related to these contracts by selling domestic and foreign-denominated exchange-traded futures contracts. The purpose of this program is to reduce the adverse effects of potential future domestic and international stock market declines on CIGNA’s liabilities for these contracts. Under the program, increases in liabilities under the annuity contracts from a declining equity market are offset by gains on the futures contracts. However, the program will not perfectly offset the change in the liability in part because the market does not offer futures contracts that exactly match the diverse mix of equity fund investments held by contractholders. The impact of this mismatch may be higher in periods of significant volatility and may result in higher losses to the Company. In addition, the number of futures contracts used in the program is adjusted only when certain tolerances are exceeded and in periods of highly volatile equity markets when actual volatility exceeds the expected volatility assumed in the liability calculation, losses will result. Further, CIGNA could have difficulty in entering into appropriate futures contracts. See “Run-off Reinsurance” in Section G beginning on page 19 of this Form 10-K for more information on the program. Actual experience could differ significantly from CIGNA’s assumptions used in estimating CIGNA’s liabilities for reinsurance contracts covering guaranteed minimum death benefits or minimum income benefits. CIGNA estimates reserves for guaranteed minimum death benefit and minimum income benefit exposures based on assumptions regarding lapse, partial surrender, mortality, interest rates, volatility, reinsurance recoverables, and, for minimum income benefit exposures, annuity income election rates. These estimates are currently based on CIGNA’s experience and future expectations. CIGNA monitors actual experience to update these reserve estimates as necessary. CIGNA regularly evaluates the assumptions used in establishing reserves and changes its estimates if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. In addition, the Company could have losses attributable to its inability to recover amounts from retrocessionaires. See Notes 7 and 11 to CIGNA’s Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on pages 116 and 127, respectively of this Form 10-K, for more information on assumptions used for the Company’s guaranteed minimum death benefit and minimum income benefit exposures. Significant stock market declines could result in larger net liabilities for guaranteed minimum death benefit contracts or for guaranteed minimum income benefit contracts, the recognition of additional pension obligations, increased funding for those obligations, and increased pension plan expenses. The Company calculates a provision for expected future partial surrenders as part of the liability for guaranteed minimum death benefit contracts. As equity markets decline, the amount of guaranteed death benefit exposure increases and the equity hedge program is designed to offset the corresponding change in the liability. If a contractholder withdraws substantially all of its mutual fund investments, the liability increases reflecting the lower assumed future premiums, the lower likelihood of lapsation, and the lower likelihood of account values recovering sufficiently to reduce death benefit exposure in future periods. These effects are not covered by the Company’s equity hedge program. Thus if equity markets decline, the provision for expected future partial surrenders increases and there is no corresponding offset from the hedge program. As equity markets decline, the claim amounts that the Company expects to pay out for the guaranteed minimum income benefit business increases resulting in increased net liabilities and related losses. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 39 Back to Contents CIGNA currently has unfunded obligations in its frozen pension plan. A significant decline in the value of the plan’s equity and fixed income investments or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially increase CIGNA’s expenses and change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which could reduce the cash available to CIGNA, including its subsidiaries. See Note 10 to CIGNA’s Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 122 of this Form 10-K for more information on the Company’s obligations under the pension plan. Significant changes in market interest rates affect the value of CIGNA’s financial instruments that promise a fixed return or benefit and the value of particular assets and liabilities. As an insurer, CIGNA has substantial investment assets that support insurance and contractholder deposit liabilities. Generally low levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in United States financial markets during recent years, have negatively impacted the level of investment income earned by the Company in recent periods, and such lower levels of investment income would continue if these lower interest rates were to continue. Substantially all of the Company’s investment assets are in fixed interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities, fixed redeemable preferred securities and commercial mortgage loans. The value of these investment assets can fluctuate significantly with changes in market conditions. A rise in interest rates could reduce the value of the Company’s investment portfolio and increase interest expense if CIGNA were to access its available lines of credit. The Company is also exposed to interest rate and equity risk associated with the Company’s pension and other post-retirement obligations. Sustained declines in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the funded status of the Company’s pension plans and the Company’s re-investment yield on new investments. Changes in interest rates may also impact the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with the Company’s guaranteed minimum death benefit liabilities. Significant, sustained declines in interest rates could cause the Company to reduce these long-term assumptions, resulting in increased liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates impact the assumed market returns and the discount rate used in the fair value calculations for the Company’s liabilities for guaranteed minimum income benefits. Significant interest rate declines could significantly increase the Company’s liabilities for these contracts. As the 7-year Treasury rate (claim interest rate) declines, the claim amounts that the Company expects to pay out for the guaranteed minimum income benefit business increases. For a subset of the business, there is a contractually guaranteed floor of 3% for the claim interest rate. Significant interest rate declines could significantly increase the Company’s net liabilities for guaranteed minimum income benefit contracts because of increased exposures. A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of CIGNA’s insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect new sales and retention of current business, and a downgrade in CIGNA’s debt ratings would increase the cost of borrowed funds and affect ability to access capital. Financial strength, claims paying ability and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized ratings agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. CIGNA believes the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of its principal insurance subsidiaries are an important factor in marketing its products to certain of CIGNA’s customers. In addition, CIGNA Corporation’s debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings, and accordingly, its cost of capital. Each of the rating agencies reviews CIGNA’s ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. In addition, a downgrade of these ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital and to support business growth at CIGNA’s insurance subsidiaries. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 40 Back to Contents Insurance ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. The principal agencies that rate CIGNA’s insurance subsidiaries characterize their insurance rating scales as follows: • A.M. Best Company, Inc. (“A.M. Best”), A++ to S (“Superior” to “Suspended”); • Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), Aaa to C (“Exceptional” to “Lowest”); • Standard & Poor’s Corp. (“S&P”), AAA to R (“Extremely Strong” to “Regulatory Action”); and • Fitch, Inc. (“Fitch”), AAA to D (“Exceptionally Strong” to “Order of Liquidation”). As of February 25, 2011, the insurance financial strength ratings for CIGNA subsidiaries, CGLIC and Life Insurance Company of North America (“LINA”) were as follows: CGLIC Insurance Ratings (1) LINA Insurance Ratings (1) A.M. Best A (“Excellent”, 3rd of 16) A (“Excellent”, 3rd of 16) Moody’s A2 (“Good”, 6th of 21) A2 (“Good”, 6th of 21) S&P A (“Strong”, 6th of 21) (Not Rated) Fitch A (“Strong”, 6th of 24) A (“Strong”, 6th of 24) (1) Includes the rating assigned, the agency’s characterization of the rating and the position of the rating in the agency’s rating scale (e.g., CGLIC’s rating by A.M. Best is the 3rd highest rating awarded in its scale of 16). Global market, economic and geopolitical conditions may cause fluctuations in equity market prices, interest rates and credit spreads which could impact the Company’s ability to raise or deploy capital as well as affect the Company’s overall liquidity. If the capital markets and credit market experience extreme volatility and disruption, there could be downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Extreme disruption in the credit markets could adversely impact the Company’s availability and cost of credit in the future. In addition, unpredictable or unstable market conditions could result in reduced opportunities to find suitable opportunities to raise capital. Operational and Other Risks CIGNA’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of its systems and business functions, including information technology and other business systems. CIGNA’s business is highly dependent upon its ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, its necessary business functions, such as: claims processing and payment; internet support and customer call centers; and the processing of new and renewal business. A power outage, pandemic, or failure of one or more of information technology, telecommunications or other systems could cause slower system response times resulting in claims not being processed as quickly as clients desire, decreased levels of client service and client satisfaction, and harm to CIGNA’s reputation. In addition, because CIGNA’s information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, CIGNA could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of CIGNA’s ability to pay claims in a timely manner, provide customer service, write and process new and renewal business, or perform other necessary corporate functions. This could result in a materially adverse effect on CIGNA’s business results and liquidity. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 41 Back to Contents A security breach of CIGNA’s computer systems could also interrupt or damage CIGNA’s operations or harm CIGNA’s reputation. In addition, CIGNA could be subject to liability if sensitive customer information is misappropriated from CIGNA’s computer systems. These systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any publicized compromise of security could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in the growth of customers, increased operating expenses, financial losses, additional litigation or other claims, which could have a material adverse effect on CIGNA’s business. CIGNA is focused on further developing its business continuity program to address the continuation of core business operations. While CIGNA continues to test and assess its business continuity program to satisfy the needs of CIGNA’s core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event. Effective prevention, detection or control systems are critical to maintain regulatory compliance or prevent fraud and failure to have these systems in place could adversely affect the Company. Failure of CIGNA’s prevention, detection or control systems related to regulatory compliance and compliance with CIGNA’s internal policies, including data systems security and unethical conduct by managers and employees, could adversely affect CIGNA’s reputation and also expose it to litigation and other proceedings, fines and penalties. Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud and abuse a priority. Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing, and violations of patient privacy rights. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to the Company are complex and subject to change. Although the Company believes its compliance efforts are adequate, ongoing vigorous law enforcement, a highly technical regulatory scheme and recent adoption of the Dodd-Frank legislation enhancing regulators’ enforcement powers and whistleblower incentives and protections mean that its compliance efforts in this area will continue to require significant resources. In addition, provider or member fraud that is not prevented or detected could impact CIGNA’s medical costs or those of its self-insured customers. Further, during an economic downturn, CIGNA’s segments, including HealthCare, Disability and Life and International, may see increased fraudulent claims volume which may lead to additional cost because of an increase in disputed claims and litigation. CIGNA also faces other risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, including but not limited to: • a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting; • requirements to restate financial results due to inappropriate or changing interpretation of the application of accounting principles that would have a significant effect on CIGNA’s reported results of operations and financial condition; • large scale natural disasters, public health epidemics or other geopolitical events that could cause CIGNA’s covered medical and disability expenses, pharmacy costs and mortality experience to rise significantly or cause operational disruption; and • competition faced by the Company to attract and retain key people to effectively execute the Company’s key initiatives and business strategy. CIGNA CORPORATION – 2010 Form 10-K – 42 Back to Contents ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 