ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, may also harm our business operations or adversely affect us. ● Our sales could decline materially if we lose business from one or more of our larger customers or a significant number of our smaller customers. Our sales are generally made under open short-term purchase orders or purchase contracts. Customers with purchase orders could reduce their volumes, or cease purchasing our products, with minimal notice. Customers having purchase contracts may elect not to renew those contracts at expiration or the contracts may be renewed on terms less favorable to us. The loss of, or material reduction in orders by, one or more of our larger customers or a significant number of our smaller customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ● Our business is dependent on the price and availability of resins and our ability to pass on resin price increases to our customers. The principal raw materials that we use in our products are polyethylene, polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride resins. Our ability to operate profitably is dependent, in part, on the availability and pricing of these resins. The resins we use are derived from petroleum and natural gas; therefore, prices fluctuate substantially as a result of changes in petroleum and natural gas prices, demand and the capacity of the companies that produce these products to meet market needs. Instability in the world markets for petroleum and natural gas could adversely affect the prices of these raw materials and their availability. Our ability to maintain profitability depends, in part, upon our ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any increase in raw material costs. If resin prices increase and we are not able to fully pass on the increases to our customers, our results of operations and our financial condition will be adversely affected. ● Product liability claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims involving claims of personal injury or property damage. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the cost of defense and the potential award in the event of a claim. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. Also, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem with one or more of our products could adversely affect our reputation and reduce the demand for our products. ● The loss of a key supplier of raw materials could lead to increased costs and lower profit margins. The loss of a key supplier would force us to purchase raw materials in the open market, which may be at higher prices, until we could secure another source and such higher prices may not allow us to remain competitive. If we are unable to obtain raw materials in sufficient quantities, we may not be able to manufacture our products. Even if we were able to replace one of our raw material suppliers through another supply arrangement, there is no assurance that the terms that we enter into with such alternate supplier will be as favorable to us as the supply arrangements that we currently have. ● Any losses we incur as a result of our exposure to the credit risk of our customers could harm our results of operations. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. As we have grown our revenue and customer base, our exposure to credit risk has increased. Any material losses as a result of customer defaults could harm, and have an adverse effect on, our business, operating results and financial condition. ● Our success is measured in part by our ability to develop patentable products, to preserve our trade secrets and operate without infringing or violating the proprietary rights of third parties. Others may challenge the validity of any patents issued to us, and we could encounter legal and financial difficulties in enforcing our patent rights against infringers. In addition, there can be no assurance that other technologies cannot or will not be developed or that patents will not be obtained by others which would render our patents less valuable or obsolete. Our patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. Once patents expire, some customers may not continue to purchase from us, opting for competitive copies instead. If we do not develop and launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our sales and profits could decline substantially. 8 We have developed technical knowledge which, although non-patentable, we consider to be significant in enabling us to compete. However, the proprietary nature of such knowledge may be difficult to protect. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation, and companies in the medical products industry sometimes use intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is often complex and expensive, and the outcome of this litigation is generally difficult to predict. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ● International patent protection is uncertain. Patent law outside the United States is uncertain and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. We may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our or our competitors’ foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. ● New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal control. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ● Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, and it may be difficult for us to compete against them. In many of our markets, we compete with numerous other companies that have substantially greater financial resources and engage in substantially more research and development activities than we do. Furthermore, innovations in surgical techniques or medical practices could have the effect of reducing or eliminating market demand for one or more of our products. Some of the markets in which we compete are dominated by established manufacturers that have broader product lines, greater distribution capabilities, substantially larger marketing, research and development staffs and facilities than we do. Many of these competitors offer broader product lines within the specific product market and in the general field of medical devices and supplies. Broad product lines give many of our cardiovascular and fluid delivery competitors the ability to negotiate exclusive, long-term medical device supply contracts and, consequently, the ability to offer comprehensive pricing of their competing products. By offering a broader product line in the general field of medical devices and supplies, competitors may also have a significant advantage in marketing competing products to group purchasing organizations. In addition, our competitors may use price reductions to preserve market share in their product markets. ● We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and health programs outside the United States. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. A violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. ● We will be unable to sell our products if we fail to comply with governmental regulations. To manufacture our products commercially, we must comply with governmental regulations that govern design controls, quality systems and documentation policies and procedures, including continued compliance with QSR. The FDA and equivalent foreign governmental authorities periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our Original Equipment Manufacturer, or OEM, medical device customers. If we or our OEM medical device customers fail to comply with these manufacturing regulations, including meeting reporting obligations to the FDA, or fail any FDA inspections, marketing or distribution of our products may be prevented or delayed, which would negatively impact our business. 9 ● Our products are subject to product recalls even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, and any such recalls would negatively affect our financial performance and could harm our reputation. Any of our products may be found to have significant deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the recall of any such defective product. A government-mandated or voluntary recall could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects. We do not maintain insurance to cover losses incurred as a result of product recalls. Any product recall would divert managerial and financial resources and negatively affect our financial performance, and could harm our reputation with customers and end-users. ● We may not receive regulatory approvals for new product candidates or for modifications of existing products or approvals may be delayed. Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. Any failure to receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates, or the subsequent withdrawal of any such approvals, would harm our business. Additionally, modification of our existing products may require regulatory approval. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with federal and state statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. If we fail to obtain or maintain, or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining, regulatory approvals, it could adversely affect the marketing of any products we develop or modify, our ability to receive product revenues, and our liquidity and capital resources. ● We rely on technology to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We rely heavily on communications and information technology systems to conduct our business, enhance customer service and increase employee productivity. Some of these systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction, computer viruses, cyber-attacks and similar events. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, inventory, manufacturing and other systems. There is no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by our policies and procedures that are intended to safeguard our systems. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information technology systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us, our customers, our suppliers or our employees, which may result in significant costs and other adverse consequences. ● We sell many of our products to healthcare providers that rely on Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans to reimburse the costs associated with the procedures performed using our products and these third party payors may deny reimbursement for use of our products. We are dependent, in part, upon the ability of healthcare providers to obtain satisfactory reimbursement from third-party payors for medical procedures in which our products are used. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate regulatory clearances or approvals, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payor, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Failure by hospitals and other users of our products to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors, or adverse changes in government and private third-party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for procedures utilizing our products, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Major third-party payors for medical services in the United States and other countries continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased discounts and contractual adjustments to charges for services performed. Further implementation of legislative or administrative reforms to the United States or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our products or denies coverage for such procedures may result in hospitals or physicians substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products which, in turn, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented could also have a negative impact on the demand for our products. ● Healthcare policy changes, including the Affordable Care Act, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Affordable Care Act makes changes that may significantly impact the medical device industry. One of the principal aims of the Affordable Care Act is to expand health insurance coverage to millions of Americans who are uninsured. The consequences of a significant coverage expansion on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. The Affordable Care Act, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to develop or market our products successfully. The 2.3 percent excise tax imposed by the Affordable Care Act on sales in the United States of certain medical devices has resulted in decreased profits to us. Also, the expansion of the government's role in the United States healthcare industry may result in a further decrease in profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 ● We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities we engage in can be intense, and we may not be able to hire qualified people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. ● We utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, which subjects us to risks that could harm our business. We have strategic relationships with a number of distributors for sales of our products. To the extent that we rely on distributors, our success will depend on the efforts of others over whom we may have little or no control. If these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues could be adversely affected. Also, we may be named as a defendant in litigation against our distributors related to sales of our products by them. ● Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other external events could significantly impact our business. We currently conduct all our development, manufacturing and management at three locations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events at any one or more of these locations could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. We have the ability to transfer certain products from a facility affected by such events, but doing so would be expensive. Our disaster recovery policies and procedures may not be effective and the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses. ● Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. A substantial portion of our sales occur outside the United States, and we are increasing our presence in international markets. Sales outside the United States subject us to many risks, such as: ● economic or political problems that disrupt foreign healthcare payment systems; ● the imposition of governmental controls; ● less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws; ● protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; ● the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory or pricing approvals of products in a timely manner; ● changes in tax laws and tariffs; ● receivables may be more difficult to collect; and ● longer payment cycles. Our operations and marketing practices are also subject to regulation and scrutiny by the governments of the other countries in which we operate. In addition, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits United States companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In certain countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Additionally, we are subject to other United States laws in our international operations. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions. ● We may lose revenues, market share and profits due to exchange rate fluctuations related to our international business. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect the prices that our international customers are willing to pay and may put us at a price disadvantage compared to other competitors. Potentially volatile shifts in exchange rates may negatively affect our financial condition and operations. Because payments from our international customers are received primarily in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive or less affordable, and therefore adversely affect our sales in international markets. 11 ● We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future operating results will depend on many factors, including: ● demand for our products; ● pricing decisions, and those of our competitors, including decisions to increase or decrease prices; ● regulatory approvals for our products; ● timing and levels of spending for research and development, sales and marketing; ● timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors; ● development or expansion of business infrastructure in new clinical and geographic markets; ● tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; ● shipping delays or interruptions; ● customer credit holds; ● timing and recognition of certain research and development milestones and license fees; and ● ability to control our costs; ● Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: ● actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; ● recommendations by securities analysts; ● operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; ● perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and our competitors; ● new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; ● trading by funds with high-turnover practices or strategies; ● significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or our competitors; ● failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; ● changes in government regulations; and ● geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. Additionally, our public float is small which can result in large fluctuations in stock price during periods with increased selling or buying activity. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. ● If we make acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we do so, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies and we may not realize the expected benefits of any such acquisition. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business. We may also sell a business or product line. Any divestiture may result in significant write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Divestitures could also involve additional risks, including difficulties in separation of operations, services and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other operations and the potential loss of key personnel. 12 ● Political and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our business may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general geopolitical economic and business conditions, conditions in the financial markets, and changes in the overall demand for our products. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our customers’ financial condition and the levels of business activity of our customers. Uncertainty about current global political or economic conditions could cause businesses to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products. There could be additional effects on our business from these economic developments including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit, the inability of our customers to pay for or obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products. Turbulence in the United States and international markets and economies could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. ● Conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of metals used in manufacturing our products. The SEC has adopted rules establishing disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. These new rules require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. These rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers of “conflict free” minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our customers may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. Additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers if we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of all minerals used in our products through our due diligence procedures. We may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to verify sufficiently that the metals used in our products are conflict free. There may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as cost related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. ● If we fail to manage our exposure to market risk and credit risk successfully, our financial condition could be adversely impacted. We have exposure to market risk and credit risk in our investment activities. The fair values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. Fixed maturity securities expose us to interest rate risk as well as credit risk. Equity securities expose us to equity price risk. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors also affect the equity securities owned by us. The outlook of our investment portfolio depends on the future direction of interest rates, fluctuations in the equity securities market and the amount of cash flows available for investment. Our investments may decline in value in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. ● Provisions in our governing documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of the Company or a change in our management. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a rights plan which is intended to provide our Board of Directors with flexibility in addressing any takeover attempt and give it an opportunity to negotiate a transaction that maximizes stockholder value. However, the rights plan could delay or prevent a change in control of us even if the change in control would generally be beneficial to our stockholders. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Although a delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or of changes in our Board of Directors could be effective in improving stockholder value, they also carry a risk of causing the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 