Item 1A. Risk Factors Below are certain risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, or the trading price of our common stock or other securities. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risks and uncertainties, nor can it assess the extent to which any of the risk factors below or any such new risks and uncertainties, or any combination thereof, may impact our business. Risk Factors Relating to the Company and Industry-Related Risks US Airways Group could experience significant operating losses in the future. For a number of reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, US Airways Group might fail to achieve profitability and might experience significant losses. In particular, the condition of the economy and the high volatility of fuel prices have had and continue to have an impact on our operating results, and increase the risk that we will experience losses. Downturns in economic conditions adversely affect our business. Due to the discretionary nature of business and leisure travel spending, airline industry revenues are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy and economies in other regions of the world. Unfavorable conditions in these broader economies have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased passenger demand for air travel and changes in booking practices, both of which in turn have had, and may have in the future, a strong negative effect on our revenues. In addition, during challenging economic times, actions by our competitors to increase their revenues can have an adverse impact on our revenues. See “The airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic” below. Certain labor agreements to which we are a party limit our ability to reduce the number of aircraft in operation, and the utilization of such aircraft, below certain levels. As a result, we may not be able to optimize the number of aircraft in operation in response to a decrease in passenger demand for air travel. Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity. Our operating results are materially impacted by changes in the availability, price volatility and cost of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. Jet fuel market prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years with market spot prices ranging from a low of approximately $1.87 per gallon to a high of approximately $3.38 per gallon during the period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012. Because of the amount of fuel needed to operate our airline, even a relatively small increase in the price of fuel can have a material adverse aggregate effect on our costs and liquidity. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry and unpredictability of the market, we can offer no assurance that we may be able to increase our fares, impose fuel surcharges or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset fuel price increases. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, we cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. Natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. Historically, we have from time to time entered into hedging arrangements designed to protect against rising fuel costs. Currently, we are not a party to any transactions to hedge our fuel consumption. Our ability to hedge in the future may be limited, particularly if our financial condition provides insufficient liquidity to meet counterparty collateral requirements. Our future fuel hedging arrangements, if any, may not completely protect us against price increases and may be limited in both volume of fuel and duration. Also, a rapid decline in the projected price of fuel at a time when we have fuel hedging contracts in place could adversely impact our short-term liquidity, because hedge counterparties could require that we post collateral in the form of cash or letters of credit. See also the discussion in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 19 Table of Contents The airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines and foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, many of which have more financial resources or lower cost structures than ours, as well as other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In many of our markets we compete with at least one low-cost air carrier. Our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. In addition, because a significant portion of our traffic is short-haul travel, we are more susceptible than other major airlines to competition from surface transportation such as automobiles and trains. Low-cost carriers have a profound impact on industry revenues. Using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares in order to shift demand from larger, more-established airlines. Some low-cost carriers, which have cost structures lower than ours, have better financial performance and significant numbers of aircraft on order for delivery in the next few years. These low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through growth and, potentially, consolidation, and could continue to have an impact on our overall performance. Additionally, as mergers and other forms of industry consolidation, including antitrust immunity grants, take place, we might or might not be included as a participant. Depending on which carriers combine and which assets, if any, are sold or otherwise transferred to other carriers in connection with such combinations, our competitive position relative to the post-combination carriers or other carriers that acquire such assets could be harmed. In addition, as carriers combine through traditional mergers or antitrust immunity grants, their route networks will grow, and that growth will result in greater overlap with our network, which in turn could result in lower overall market share and revenues for us. Such consolidation is not limited to the U.S., but could include further consolidation among international carriers in Europe and elsewhere. Also see the risk factors provided under the caption “Risk Factors Relating to the Merger.” Increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. Concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, energy costs and geopolitical issues, combined with continued changes in business activity levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and volatile oil prices, have contributed to unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital markets. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These changes in the domestic and global financial markets may increase our costs of financing and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing needed for the acquisition of aircraft that we have contractual commitments to purchase and for other types of financings we may seek in order to refinance debt maturities, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. Any downgrades to our credit rating may likewise increase the cost and reduce the availability of financing. In addition, we have substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. We have not yet secured financing commitments for four Airbus aircraft scheduled for delivery after November 2013, and cannot assure you of the availability or cost of that financing. If we are not able to arrange financing for such aircraft at customary advance rates and on terms and conditions acceptable to us, we expect we would seek to negotiate deferrals of aircraft deliveries with the manufacturer or financing at lower than customary advance rates, or, if required, use cash from operations or other sources to purchase the aircraft. 20 Table of Contents Further, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars (“LIBOR”). LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, Federal Reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. See also the discussion of interest rate risk in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our high level of fixed obligations limits our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limits our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, aircraft leases and financings, aircraft purchase commitments, leases and developments of airport and other facilities and other cash obligations. We also have certain guaranteed costs associated with our express operations. Our existing indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these obligations: • a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; • we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase; and • we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures. These obligations also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Any failure to comply with the liquidity covenants contained in our financing arrangements would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our Citicorp credit facility and certain of our other financing arrangements require us to maintain consolidated unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of not less than $850 million, with not less than $750 million (subject to partial reductions upon certain reductions in the outstanding principal amount of the loan) of that amount held in accounts subject to control agreements. Our ability to comply with these covenants while paying the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations and our other expenses will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which are seasonal, as well as factors including fuel costs and general economic and political conditions. The factors affecting our liquidity (and our ability to comply with related covenants) will remain subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. Any breach of our liquidity covenants or failure to timely pay our obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by our credit card processors and the exercise of remedies by our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our contractual obligations, repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs. 21 Table of Contents If our financial condition worsens, provisions in our credit card processing and other commercial agreements may adversely affect our liquidity. We have agreements with companies that process customer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and other services. These agreements allow these processing companies, under certain conditions, to hold an amount of our cash (referred to as a “holdback”) equal to some or all of the advance ticket sales that have been processed by that company, but for which we have not yet provided the air transportation. We are currently subject to certain holdback requirements. These holdback requirements can be modified at the discretion of the processing companies upon the occurrence of specific events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition. An increase in the current holdback balances to higher percentages up to and including 100% of relevant advanced ticket sales could materially reduce our liquidity. Likewise, other of our commercial agreements contain provisions that allow other entities to impose less favorable terms, including the acceleration of amounts due, in the event of material adverse changes in our financial condition. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board (“NMB”). If no agreement is reached during direct negotiations between the parties, either party may request that the NMB appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation processes, and it is not unusual for those processes to last for many months or even several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare that an impasse exists and proffer binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration, and if arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During or after that period, a Presidential Emergency Board (“PEB”) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another 30-day “cooling off” period. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help”, such as a strike, which could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and our financial performance. We are currently in negotiations with the unions representing our fleet service employees, our passenger service employees, our mechanic, stock clerk and related employees, our maintenance training instructors, our flight crew training instructors and our flight simulator engineers. On February 8, 2013, the US Airways pilots represented by USAPA voted to ratify a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) that will become effective in the event a merger with AMR is consummated. If the merger is completed, the MOU provides a six-year agreement for the pilots of the combined post-merger carrier. In addition, our express subsidiary, Piedmont, is in negotiations with the unions representing its flight attendants and its mechanics. All negotiations except those involving the Piedmont mechanics are being overseen by the NMB. None of these unions presently may lawfully engage in concerted refusals to work, such as strikes, slow-downs, sick-outs or other similar activity, against us. Nonetheless, there is a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of our airline and impair our financial performance. For example, on September 28, 2011, the U.S. District Court in Charlotte granted a preliminary injunction, which was subsequently converted to a permanent injunction, enjoining the labor union representing our pilots from engaging in an illegal work slowdown. The inability to maintain labor costs at competitive levels would harm our financial performance. Currently, our labor costs are very competitive relative to the other hub-and-spoke carriers. However, we cannot provide assurance that labor costs going forward will remain competitive because some of our agreements are amendable now and others may become amendable, competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs or we may agree to higher-cost provisions in our current or future labor negotiations. Approximately 83% of the employees within US Airways Group are represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. Some of our unions have brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration, including related to wages. Unions may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. If successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create material additional costs that we did not anticipate. 22 Table of Contents Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports or our focus city could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We operate principally through hubs in Charlotte, Philadelphia and Phoenix, and our focus city, Washington, D.C. Substantially all of our flights either originate in or fly into one of these locations. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs or in Washington, D.C. resulting from air traffic control delays, weather conditions, natural disasters, growth constraints, relations with third-party service providers, failure of computer systems, facility disruptions, labor relations, fuel supplies, terrorist activities or otherwise could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Regulatory changes affecting the allocation of slots could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Operations at four major domestic airports, certain smaller domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are regulated by governmental entities through the use of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period and may have other operational restrictions as well. In the United States, the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) currently regulates the allocation of slot or slot exemptions at Washington National and three New York City airports: Newark, JFK and LaGuardia. Our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or similar regulatory authority. Similarly, our operations at international airports in Frankfurt, London Heathrow, Paris and other airports outside the United States are regulated by local slot authorities pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. We currently have sufficient slots or similar authority to operate our existing flight schedule and have generally been able to acquire the necessary rights to expand flights and to change our schedules, although some airports are more challenging than others in terms of the cost and availability of additional authority necessary to expand operations. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in government policy. The FAA is planning a new rulemaking in 2013 to update the current rules governing the New York City airports. As the new proposal has not been released yet, we cannot state that the new proposed rules, if finalized, would not have a material impact on our operations. If we incur problems with any of our third-party regional operators or third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. A significant portion of our regional operations are conducted by third-party operators on our behalf, primarily under capacity purchase agreements. Due to our reliance on third parties to provide these essential services, we are subject to the risks of disruptions to their operations, which may result from many of the same risk factors disclosed in this report, such as the impact of adverse economic conditions, and other risk factors, such as a bankruptcy restructuring of any of the regional operators. We may also experience disruption to our regional operations if we terminate the capacity purchase agreement with one or more of our current operators and transition the services to another provider. As our regional segment provides revenues to us directly and indirectly (by providing flow traffic to our hubs), any significant disruption to our regional operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial performance. In addition, our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in our relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including express flight operations, aircraft maintenance, ground services and facilities, reservations and baggage handling. Similar agreements may be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. These agreements are generally subject to termination after notice by the third-party service provider. We are also at risk should one of these service providers cease operations, and there is no guarantee that we could replace these providers on a timely basis with comparably priced providers. Recent volatility in fuel prices, disruptions to capital markets and the current economic downturn in general have subjected certain of these third-party service providers to strong financial pressures. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services, resulting from financial hardships or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We rely on third party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels. We rely on third party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems, or GDSs (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents, or OTAs (e.g., Expedia, Orbitz and Travelocity), to distribute a significant portion of our airline tickets and we expect in the future to continue to rely on these channels and hope to expand their ability to distribute and collect revenues for ancillary products (e.g., fees for selective seating). These distribution channels are more expensive and at present have less functionality in respect of ancillary product offerings than those we operate ourselves, such as our call centers and our website. Certain of these distribution channels also effectively restrict the manner in which we distribute our products generally. To remain competitive, we will need to manage successfully our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. Any inability to manage our third party distribution costs, rights and functionality at a competitive level or any material diminishment or disruption in the distribution of our tickets could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and our results of operations. Further, on April 21, 2011, we filed an antitrust lawsuit against Sabre in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit, as amended to date, alleges, among other things, that Sabre has engaged in anticompetitive practices to preserve its monopoly power by restricting our ability to distribute our products to our customers. The lawsuit also alleges that these actions have prevented us from employing new competing technologies and has allowed Sabre to continue to charge us supracompetitive fees. The lawsuit seeks both injunctive relief and money damages. Sabre filed a motion to dismiss the case, which the court denied in part and granted in part in September 2011, allowing two of the four counts in the complaint to proceed. On January 18, 2013, Sabre filed a motion for leave to file a counterclaim, alleging that US Airways and other airlines conspired among themselves and with a third-party technology firm to boycott Sabre and other global distribution systems. If permitted to proceed, Sabre would be seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. We intend to pursue our claims against Sabre vigorously and to vigorously defend any claims Sabre is permitted to file against us, but there can be no assurance of the outcome of this litigation. Changes in government regulation could increase our operating costs and limit our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the FAA, the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) and the Department of Homeland Security have issued a number of directives and other regulations. These requirements impose substantial costs on airlines. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement and maintenance of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, other environmental concerns, fuel tank inerting, crew scheduling, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. Our failure to timely comply with these requirements has in the past and could in the future result in fines and other enforcement actions by the FAA or other regulators. Additionally, the FAA recently finalized rules on pilot flight and duty times, and has proposed new rules on minimum requirements for all pilots operating commercial aircraft. Both rules could increase our costs and reduce staffing flexibility. Our airline subsidiaries are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the “ticket tax,” on domestic and international air transportation. Our airline subsidiaries collect the ticket tax, along with certain other U.S. and foreign taxes and user fees on air transportation, and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. Although these taxes are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. There are a number of efforts in Congress and in other countries to raise different portions of the various taxes imposed on airlines and their passengers. Most major U.S. airports impose a passenger facility charge (“PFC”). The ability of airlines to contest increases in this charge is restricted by federal legislation, DOT regulations and judicial decisions. With certain exceptions, air carriers pass these charges on to passengers. However, our ability to pass through PFCs to our customers is subject to various factors, including market conditions and competitive factors. The current cap on the PFC is $4.50 per passenger, but the industry faces regular efforts in Congress to raise the cap to a higher level. DOT consumer rules that took effect on April 29, 2010 require procedures for customer handling during long onboard delays, as well as additional reporting requirements for airlines that have increased the cost of airline operations and reduced revenues. The DOT has been aggressively investigating alleged violations of these rules. In addition, the DOT finalized a second set of rules that further regulate airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. US Airways is in compliance with these rules, which took effect in August 2011, and others which took effect in January 2012. These rules require airlines to display all fares in an “all in” basis, with the price of the air travel and all taxes and government imposed fees rolled into the displayed fare. Enhanced disclosure of ancillary fees such as baggage fees is also required. Other rules apply to post-ticket purchase price increases and an expansion of tarmac delay regulations to international carriers. 24 Table of Contents We anticipate a third set of consumer rules to be issued by the DOT in mid-2013. We continue to see other efforts by the DOT to further regulate airlines through increased data reporting requirements, expansion of the Air Carrier Access Act, and greater oversight of the ways that airlines describe and sell air transportation and other products and services. Each additional regulation or other form of regulatory oversight increases costs and adds greater complexity to our operation. We cannot assure you that compliance with these new rules, anticipated rules or other forms of regulatory oversight will not have a material adverse effect on our business. On February 6, 2012, Congress passed the FAA Reauthorization legislation, formally titled as “FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012” (H.R.658). From the perspective of the airline industry, highlights include: • No increase in airline ticket or fuel taxes; • No increase in PFCs; • No taxation of ancillary fees and revenue; • Authorized eight additional daily flights beyond the 1,250 mile perimeter restricting flights to and from Washington National. Four flights were allocated to new entrant and limited incumbents, and four were set aside for incumbent carriers as of the date of enactment (that is, one for each of American, Delta, United and US Airways); • Dedicated title of the legislation is intended to help accelerate implementation of the NextGeneration air traffic control system. Among the provisions included were mandated performance metrics, as well as a requirement that modernization projects at 35 major airports are to receive streamlined environmental review; and • Sunset line checks for pilots over 60. In addition, the TSA mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per-ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. The federal government has on several occasions proposed a significant increase in the per-ticket tax. We anticipate additional proposals to raise the ticket tax could happen in future budget and revenue raising proposals in Congress. A ticket tax increase, if implemented, could negatively impact our financial results. Finally, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be available. We cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our operating costs. In addition, increased environmental regulation, particularly in the European Union (“EU”), may increase costs or restrict our operations. The EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”) was scheduled to take full effect in 2012. This scheme has the ability to appreciably raise costs associated with flights to and from EU countries as airlines will have to purchase emissions credits on the open market to cover some percentage of a carrier’s European operations. US Airways has met all the regulatory milestones associated with the program to date. While we are complying with the regulations under protest, we have also been supportive of the efforts of the U.S. government and other countries to delay the implementation and financial effects of the new regulations. In November 2012, the EU announced plans to suspend payments and other aspects of the ETS through October 2013 for flights between the EU and countries outside the EU. US Airways does not anticipate any significant emissions credit expenditures in 2013. In addition, President Obama recently signed legislation that will allow the Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS. Whether US Airways will ever be required to purchase and redeem emissions credits under the EU scheme is still unknown. However, it is increasingly likely that in the future we will be subject to some form of regulation governing aircraft emissions. How such regulations are implemented or what the impact on us will be is unknown at this time. See “We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result” below. 25 Table of Contents Changes to our business model that are designed to increase revenues may not be successful and may cause operational difficulties or decreased demand. We have implemented several new measures designed to increase revenue and offset costs. These measures include charging separately for services that had previously been included within the price of a ticket and increasing other pre-existing fees. We may introduce additional initiatives in the future; however, as time goes on, we expect that it will be more difficult to identify and implement additional initiatives. We cannot assure you that these new measures or any future initiatives will be successful in increasing our revenues. Additionally, the implementation of these initiatives creates logistical challenges that could harm the operational performance of our airline. Also, the new and increased fees might reduce the demand for air travel on our airline or across the industry in general, particularly if weakened economic conditions continue to make our customers more sensitive to increased travel costs or provide a significant competitive advantage to other carriers that determine not to institute similar charges. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect the results of our operations or our financial performance. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect our business. We may be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks; the travel industry continues to face ongoing security concerns. Acts of terrorism or fear of such attacks, including elevated national threat warnings, wars or other military conflicts, may depress air travel, particularly on international routes, and cause declines in revenues and increases in costs. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and continuing terrorist threats and attempted attacks materially impacted and continue to impact air travel. Increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks and other such measures as may be introduced in the future generate higher operating costs for airlines. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act mandated improved flight deck security, deployment of federal air marshals on board flights, improved airport perimeter access security, airline crew security training, enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors, enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel, additional provision of passenger data to U.S. Customs and enhanced background checks. A concurrent increase in airport security charges and procedures, such as restrictions on carry-on baggage, has also had and may continue to have a disproportionate impact on short-haul travel, which constitutes a significant portion of our flying and revenue. Our ability to operate and grow our route network in the future is dependent on the availability of adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system. In order to operate our existing flight schedule and, where appropriate, add service along new or existing routes, we must be able to obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable) and office space. The nation’s aging air traffic control infrastructure presents challenges as well. The ability of the air traffic control system to handle traffic in high-density areas where we have a large concentration of flights is critical to our ability to operate our existing schedule. Also, as airports around the world become more congested, we cannot always be sure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner given operating constraints at airports throughout our network. We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result. We are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. 26 Table of Contents The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has proposed effluent limitation guidelines for airport de-icing fluid. This proposed technology-based rule would require the mitigation of spent de-icing fluid (glycol) discharges through collection and treatment. Airports meeting threshold requirements would have to construct or reconfigure de-icing facilities to capture and treat the fluid. Additionally, the EPA has proposed changes to underground storage tank regulations that could affect certain airport fuel hydrant systems. Airport systems that fall within threshold requirements would need to be modified to meet regulations. Neither rule has been finalized, and cost estimates have not been defined, but US Airways along with other airlines would share a portion of these costs at applicable airports. In addition to the proposed EPA regulations, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of de-icing fluid to local groundwater, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport de-icing facilities. Such efforts are likely to impose additional costs and restrictions on airlines using those airports. We do not believe, however, that such environmental developments will have a material impact on our capital expenditures or otherwise adversely affect our operations, operating costs or competitive position. We are also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require us to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. Under federal law, generators of waste materials, and owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. Liability under these laws is often strict, joint and several, meaning that we could be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination regardless of fault or the amount of wastes directly attributable to us. We have liability for such costs at various sites, although the future costs associated with the remediation efforts are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. We have various leases and agreements with respect to real property, tanks and pipelines with airports and other operators. Under these leases and agreements, we have agreed to indemnify the lessor or operator against environmental liabilities associated with the real property or operations described under the agreement, even if we are not the party responsible for the initial event that caused the environmental damage. We also participate in leases with other airlines in fuel consortiums and fuel committees at airports, where such indemnities are generally joint and several among the participating airlines. There is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the EU has established the ETS, the mechanism by which emissions of CO2 are currently regulated in the EU. Since the beginning of 2012, the ETS has required airlines to have emission allowances equal to the amount of carbon dioxide emissions from flights to and from EU member states. In November 2012, the EU announced an intent to suspend payments and other aspects of the ETS through October 2013 for flights between the EU and countries outside the EU. In addition, President Obama recently signed legislation that will allow the Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS. Although the details of the suspension and prohibition have not yet been finalized, US Airways does not anticipate any significant emissions credit expenditures in 2013. Beyond 2013, compliance with the EU ETS could significantly increase our operating costs. However, whether US Airways will ever be required to purchase and redeem emissions credits under the EU scheme is still unknown. Further, the potential impact of ETS on costs will ultimately depend on a number of factors, including baseline emissions, the price of emission credits and the number of future flights subject to ETS. These costs have not been completely defined and will fluctuate. In the U.S., there is an increasing trend toward regulating greenhouse gas emissions directly under the Clean Air Act, and while the EPA’s recent regulatory activity in this area has focused on industries other than aviation, it is possible that future EPA regulations or new legislation could impact airlines. Several states are also considering initiatives to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emissions inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. These regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the U.S. at the federal and state levels, are still developing and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs will be in the U.S., the EU or in other areas in which we do business. However, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. Such activity may also impact us indirectly by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. Governmental authorities in several U.S. and foreign cities are also considering or have already implemented aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews and limitations on daytime take-offs and landings. We have been able to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, but our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. 27 Table of Contents We rely heavily on technology and automated systems to operate our business, and any failure of these technologies or systems could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are highly dependent on technology and automated systems to operate and achieve low operating costs. These technologies and systems include our computerized airline reservation system, flight operations system, financial planning, management and accounting systems, telecommunications systems, website, maintenance systems and check-in kiosks. In order for our operations to work efficiently, our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver flight information. Substantially all of our tickets are issued to passengers as electronic tickets. We depend on our reservation system, which is hosted and maintained under a long-term contract by a third-party service provider, to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. If our automated systems are not functioning or if our third-party service providers were to fail to adequately provide technical support, system maintenance or timely software upgrades for any one of our key existing systems, we could experience service disruptions or delays, which could harm our business and result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and decrease our revenues. In the event that one or more of our primary technology or systems vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operations or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available on a timely basis, at competitive rates or at all, and any transition time to a new system may be significant. Our automated systems cannot be completely protected against other events that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, computer viruses or telecommunications failures. Substantial or sustained system failures could cause service delays or failures and result in our customers purchasing tickets from other airlines. We cannot assure you that our security measures, change control procedures or disaster recovery plans are adequate to prevent disruptions or delays. Disruption in or changes to these systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Ongoing data security compliance requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data breach could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of customer and other sensitive information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities (including cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses and the like), discovery of new vulnerabilities or attempts to exploit existing vulnerabilities in our systems, other data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store sensitive information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the U.S. and abroad (particularly in the EU), including requirements for varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach. In addition, many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that we must meet. In particular, we are required by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, founded by the credit card companies, to comply with their highest level of data security standards. While we continue our efforts to meet these standards, new and revised standards may be imposed that may be difficult for us to meet and could increase our costs. Failure to comply with the Payment Card Industry Standards discussed above or other privacy and data use and security requirements of our partners or related laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject may expose us to claims for contract breach, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business. In addition, failure to address appropriately these issues could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses. 28 Table of Contents We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft or the aircraft of our regional operators. If one of our aircraft, an aircraft that is operated under our brand by one of our regional operators or an aircraft that is operated by an airline that is one of our codeshare partners were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate, an aircraft that is operated under our brand by one of our regional operators or an aircraft that is operated by an airline that is one of our codeshare partners could create a public perception that our aircraft or those of our regional operators or codeshare partners are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft or those of our regional operators or codeshare partners and adversely impact our financial condition and operations. Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of anticipated fleet capacity may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The success of our business depends on, among other things, the ability to operate an optimum number and type of aircraft. In many cases, the aircraft we intend to operate are not yet in our fleet, but we have contractual commitments to purchase or lease them. If for any reason we were unable to accept or secure deliveries of new aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates, this could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Our failure to integrate newly purchased aircraft into our fleet as planned might require us to seek extensions of the terms for some leased aircraft. Such unanticipated extensions may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point at which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs. If new aircraft orders are not filled on a timely basis, we could face higher monthly rental rates. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and parts. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and many aircraft and engine parts. As a result, we are vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft, parts and engines, including design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the suppliers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. Our inability to operate profitably out of Philadelphia International Airport, which is one of our hubs, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Markets served from Philadelphia International Airport (“PHL”), which is one of our hubs and our international gateway, are important to our operations. In fiscal year 2012, more than a third of our daily available seat miles (“ASMs”) and more than half of our international ASMs were flown through PHL. PHL plans to embark on a multi-billion dollar runway and terminal expansion project called the “Capacity Enhancement Program” that will, if undertaken as planned, result in huge cost increases for airlines serving PHL, including US Airways. The project has been approved by the FAA, and expenditures have already begun. US Airways has recently agreed with the Philadelphia Division of Aviation to a two-year extension of its PHL-Airport Use and Lease Agreement through June 30, 2015; this extension is subject to the Philadelphia City Council approval. Significant expenditures related to the runway can be made only with the consent of US Airways and the new lease does not provide for such expenditures. We cannot guarantee that the fees and other costs related to operating out of PHL will not increase should this or other significant expansion projects be implemented by the airport authority after expiration of the pending lease extension. In addition, if we are unable to operate profitably from PHL, we may need to significantly reduce our business at Philadelphia or move that business to another of our hubs, either of which actions could be costly. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by an increase in airport rates and fees charged by PHL in connection with and following the airport expansion. Our business is subject to weather factors and seasonal variations in airline travel, which cause our results to fluctuate. Our operations are vulnerable to severe weather conditions in parts of our network that could disrupt service, create air traffic control problems, decrease revenue and increase costs, such as during hurricane season in the Caribbean and Southeast United States, snow and severe winter weather in the Northeast United States and thunderstorms in the Eastern United States. In addition, the air travel business historically fluctuates on a seasonal basis. Due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Our results of operations will likely reflect weather factors and seasonality, and therefore quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year, and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. 29 Table of Contents Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. In addition, we have obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. The program has been extended, with the same conditions and premiums, until September 30, 2013. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. The failure of one or more of our insurers could result in a lack of coverage for a period of time. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the claims paying ability of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. Because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results. We may be adversely affected by global events that affect travel behavior. Our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected by global events beyond our control. An outbreak of a contagious disease such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), H1N1 influenza virus, avian flu, or any other influenza-type illness, if it were to persist for an extended period, could again materially affect the airline industry and us by reducing revenues and impacting travel behavior. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of our international operations, we have significant operating revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currencies can significantly affect our operating performance and the value of our assets and liabilities located outside of the United States. The use of US Airways Group’s net operating losses and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. When a corporation undergoes an ownership change, as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”), a limitation is imposed on the corporation’s future ability to utilize any net operating losses (“NOLs”) generated before the ownership change and certain subsequently recognized “built-in” losses and deductions, if any, existing as of the date of the ownership change. We believe an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 occurred for US Airways Group in February 2007. Since February 2007, there have been additional changes in the ownership of US Airways Group that, if combined with sufficiently large future changes in ownership, could result in another “ownership change” as defined in Section 382. Until US Airways Group has used all of its existing NOLs, future shifts in ownership of US Airways Group’s common stock could result in new Section 382 limitations on the use of our NOLs as of the date of an additional ownership change. An additional ownership change will occur upon consummation of the Merger with AMR. Risk Factors Relating to the Merger On February 13, 2013, US Airways Group and AMR entered into the Merger Agreement, as more fully described under Item 1 “Business – Recent Developments.” The Merger is subject to a number of conditions to the obligations of both us and AMR that may not be fulfilled, which could cause the termination of the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement contains a number of customary conditions to consummation of the Merger, such as the accuracy of representations and warranties in all material respects, the fulfillment of obligations set out in covenants, that certain consents and regulatory approvals have been obtained, that there are no legal prohibitions against consummation of the Merger, that approval of the US Airways Group stockholders has been received, that an order from the Bankruptcy Court confirming AMR’s plan of reorganization is in effect, that the plan of reorganization conforms with the requirements of the Merger Agreement, that secured indebtedness of the Debtors and certain other claims against the Debtors not exceed specified levels, and other customary conditions. AMR has the right to unilaterally terminate the Merger Agreement under certain conditions. Many of the conditions to consummation of the Merger are not within our control, and we cannot predict when or if these conditions will be satisfied. If any of these conditions are not fulfilled or waived prior to the termination date set forth in the Merger Agreement (October 14, 2013, as it may be extended), it is possible that the Merger will not be consummated. 30 Table of Contents The Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from certain domestic and foreign regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have a material and adverse effect on the surviving company, or that could delay or, if not obtained, prevent the completion of the Merger. Before the Merger can be completed, applicable waiting periods must expire or terminate under antitrust laws and various approvals, consents or clearances must be obtained from certain domestic and foreign regulatory entities, including those regulating the provision of commercial aviation services. In deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant antitrust authorities will consider the effect of the Merger on competition within their relevant jurisdictions. The terms and conditions of approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions on the conduct of the surviving company’s business following the Merger. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions that would delay completion of the Merger, impose additional material costs on or limit the revenues of the surviving company, or limit some or all of the synergies and other benefits we anticipate following the Merger. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any such terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions will not result in a material delay in, or the abandonment of, the Merger. The Merger is subject to the receipt of numerous approvals, including approvals from US Airways Group’s stockholders and confirmation of our plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Court. Failure to obtain any of these approvals would prevent the completion of the Merger. The Merger Agreement will not be binding on either us or AMR until the Bankruptcy Court enters an order approving its enforceability. In addition, before the Merger can be completed, US Airways Group must submit the Merger to a vote of its stockholders, US Airways Group’s stockholders must have approved the Merger, AMR must obtain the approval of the plan of reorganization contemplating the Merger by the requisite percentage of each class of claimholder (as determined pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code), and the Bankruptcy Court must enter an order confirming our plan of reorganization and consummation of the Merger. There can be no assurance that any of these approvals will occur. Failure to obtain these required approvals within the expected time frame, or having to make significant changes to the structure, terms or conditions of the Merger to obtain such approvals, may result in a material delay in, or the abandonment of, the Merger. Any delay in completing the Merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected to be achieved thereunder. In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals discussed above, the Merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially and adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict when or if these other conditions will be satisfied. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the Merger could cause the surviving company to fail to realize some or all of the synergies and other benefits that we anticipate if the Merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame. Failure to complete the Merger could adversely affect our business. If the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • we may be required to pay termination fees of $55 million or $195 million under certain circumstances provided in the Merger Agreement; • unless and until it is terminated, we will be prohibited by the Merger Agreement from seeking certain strategic alternatives, such as transactions with third parties other than AMR, and could therefore miss attractive alternatives to the Merger; • our operations will be restricted by the terms of the Merger Agreement, which may cause us to forego otherwise attractive business opportunities; • we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, whether or not it is consummated, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees, which costs could be substantial; and • our management will have focused its attention on negotiating and preparing for the Merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. If the Merger is not completed, there can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents The Merger Agreement contains customary restrictions on our ability to seek other strategic alternatives. The Merger Agreement contains “no shop” provisions that restrict our ability to initiate, solicit, or knowingly encourage or facilitate competing third-party proposals for any business combination transaction involving a merger of us with another entity or the acquisition of a significant portion of our stock or assets, although we may consider competing, unsolicited proposals and enter into discussions or negotiations regarding such proposals if our board of directors determines that any such acquisition proposal constitutes, or is reasonably likely to lead to, a superior proposal and that the failure to take such action is reasonably likely to be inconsistent with the fiduciary duties of the board of directors to us and our stockholders under applicable law. In addition, AMR generally has an opportunity to offer to modify the terms of the Merger in response to any competing acquisition proposal. If we were to terminate the Merger Agreement to accept a superior proposal, we would be required to pay a termination fee of $55 million to AMR. These provisions, although customary for these types of transactions, could discourage a potential third-party acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of our company from proposing any such acquisition, even if the potential third-party acquirer were prepared to pay consideration with a higher cash or market value than the market value proposed to be received or realized in the Merger or might result in a potential third-party acquirer proposing to pay a lower consideration to our stockholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the $55 million termination fee that will become payable in connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement by us. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and we determine to seek another business combination, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with another party on terms comparable to, or better than, the terms of the Merger. The surviving company may be unable to integrate our and AMR’s businesses successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. The Merger involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies, each of which operates its own international network airline. Historically, the integration of separate airlines has often proven to be more time consuming and require more resources than initially estimated. The surviving company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our and AMR’s business practices, cultures and operations. Potential difficulties the surviving company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine our business with that of AMR in a manner that permits the surviving company to achieve the synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the Merger; • the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, aircraft fleets, networks and other assets of the two companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; • the challenge of integrating the workforces of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service and running an efficient operation; and • potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the Merger, including one-time cash costs to integrate the two businesses that may exceed the approximately $1.2 billion of one-time cash costs that we currently anticipate. Accordingly, even if the Merger is consummated, the contemplated benefits may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, both AMR and we have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in: • diversion of the attention of the surviving company’s management and other employees; and • the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the surviving company’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could materially and adversely affect the surviving company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or the surviving company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. 32 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has recently been and may in the future be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • movements in fuel prices; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • general market conditions. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of US Airways Group’s 7.25% convertible senior notes due 2014 will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants executing hedging strategies. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of US Airways Group and its stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the ability of US Airways Group’s board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; • a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; • a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders; • a requirement that holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors approve any amendment of our amended and restated bylaws submitted to stockholders for approval; and • super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of US Airways Group’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation. 33 Table of Contents These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of US Airways Group’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, US Airways Group is subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders whose acquisition of US Airways Group’s securities is approved by the board of directors prior to the investment under Section 203. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting and ownership of our equity interests, which includes our common stock and our convertible notes, by foreign owners. Our charter documents provide that, consistent with the requirements of Subtitle VII of Title 49 of the United States Code, as amended, or as the same may be from time to time amended (the “Aviation Act”), any person or entity who is not a “citizen of the United States” (as defined under the Aviation Act and administrative interpretations issued by the DOT, its predecessors and successors, from time to time), including any agent, trustee or representative of such person or entity (a “non-citizen”), shall not own (beneficially or of record) and/or control more than (a) 24.9% of the aggregate votes of all of our outstanding equity securities (as defined, which definition includes our capital stock, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our capital stock, including our outstanding convertible notes, and any options, warrants or other rights to acquire capital stock) (the “voting cap amount”) or (b) 49.9% of our outstanding equity securities (the “absolute cap amount”). If non-citizens nonetheless at any time own and/or control more than the voting cap amount, the voting rights of the equity securities in excess of the voting cap amount shall be automatically suspended in accordance with the provisions of our bylaws. Voting rights of equity securities, if any, owned (beneficially or of record) by non-citizens shall be suspended in reverse chronological order based upon the date of registration in the foreign stock record. Further, if at any time a transfer of equity securities to a non-citizen would result in non-citizens owning more than the absolute cap amount, such transfer shall be void and of no effect, in accordance with provisions of our bylaws. Certificates for our equity securities must bear a legend set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation stating that such equity securities are subject to the foregoing restrictions. Under our bylaws, it is the duty of each stockholder who is a non-citizen to register his, her or its equity securities on our foreign stock record. In addition, our bylaws provide that in the event that non-citizens shall own (beneficially or of record) or have voting control over any equity securities, the voting rights of such persons shall be subject to automatic suspension to the extent required to ensure that we are in compliance with applicable provisions of law and regulations relating to ownership or control of a United States air carrier. In the event that we determine that the equity securities registered on the foreign stock record or the stock records of the Company exceed the absolute cap amount, sufficient shares shall be removed from the foreign stock record and the stock records of the Company so that the number of shares entered therein does not exceed the absolute cap amount. Shares of equity securities shall be removed from the foreign stock record and the stock records of the Company in reverse chronological order based on the date of registration in the foreign stock record and the stock records of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 Table of Contents 