ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Factors That May Affect Our Business The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any one or a combination of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Hawaii, California or Washington, could hurt our business materially. Our business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Hawaii, California or Washington, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and · collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. Approximately 77% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate which represents an increase from 75% at year-end 2004. An adverse change in the economy affecting real estate values generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability could be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market. In addition, federal regulators have proposed new guidelines that, if approved, would require banks with high concentrations of commercial real estate loans to have stricter underwriting policies, enhanced risk management processes and higher capital levels. 14 These changes could impair future loan growth or impose additional capital requirements on us that could adversely affect our profitability and capital adequacy. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. In light of our current volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, our interest rate spread could be expected to increase during periods of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during periods of falling interest rates. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including the following: · inflation; · recession; · changes in unemployment; · the money supply; and · international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Our asset/liability management strategy may not be able to control our risk from changes in market interest rates, and it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A deterioration in the credit quality of our loan portfolio could adversely affect our results of operations. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral or guarantees securing these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on our 15 operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are based, in part, on: · current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; · an evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance for loan losses; · results of examinations of our loan portfolios by regulatory agencies; and · management’s internal review of the loan portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. While we are not currently aware of any fact or circumstance that would cause our allowance to be inadequate, if our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient. Adjustments may also be necessary to allow for unexpected volatility or deterioration in the local or national economy. Material additions to the allowance may be required if actual loan losses are higher than we expected or if problem loans, loan delinquencies or estimates of probable losses increase, which would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal regulators periodically evaluate the adequacy of our allowance and may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks conduct significant business in the market areas in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. · The ability to expand our market position. · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. · The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to its competitors. 16 · Customer satisfaction with our level of service. · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to generate sufficient deposit growth to support our funding needs. The largest contributor to our profitability is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest we earn on loans and investments over the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. The interest rates we pay on deposits is typically lower than that which we would pay on borrowings. To the extent that we are able to increase deposits to fund our asset growth, our profitability would be higher than it would if those funds come from borrowings. With stiff competition for deposits in the Hawaii market, and numerous investment alternatives available to potential depositors, we may not be able to generate sufficient deposit growth at acceptable interest rates to support our funding needs. In that event, we may need to increase the interest rates we pay on deposits to generate additional deposit growth, or we may need to increase borrowings. In either situation, our interest expense would increase, and consequently, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Operations in our mainland loan production offices have positively affected our results of operations, and sustaining these operations and growing loans may be more difficult than we expect, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Sustaining the expansion of loan production on the mainland depends on a number of factors, including the continued strength of the California and Washington real estate markets. The strength of these real estate markets could be negatively affected by anticipated increases in interest rates and any economic downturn, and our results of operation could be negatively impacted. Conversely, continued strength in the real estate market, while providing lending opportunities, could also result in unanticipated loan payoffs resulting from the sale of the subject properties. This could adversely impact our loan growth, and consequently, our financial condition and results of operations. Because we have a limited operating history with respect to our California and Washington loan production offices, it is more difficult to predict our future prospects and financial performance, which may impair our ability to manage our business. Our first California loan production office commenced operations in the first quarter of 2003, and our first Washington loan production office opened in the fourth quarter of 2004. Consequently, our mainland offices have a limited history upon which we can rely in planning and making decisions that will affect our future operating results. The loans made by our mainland loan production offices in California and Washington are generally unseasoned, and defaults on such loans would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. At December 31, 2005, loans originated in our California and Washington loan production offices totaled $877.6 million, or 25% of our total loan portfolio. In light of the limited operating history of our mainland loan production offices described in the previous risk factor, all of those loans were originated after January 1, 2003. The payment on such loans is typically dependent on the cash flows generated by the projects, which are affected by the supply and demand for commercial property within the relative market. If the market for commercial property experiences a decline in demand, commercial borrowers may suffer 17 losses on their projects and be unable to repay their loans. Defaults on these loans would negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The loans made by our mainland loan production offices in California and Washington are concentrated among a limited number of customers in California and Washington, and difficulty with a customer or loss of a customer could affect our results of operations and our ability to grow loans and deposits in the mainland. Our mainland operations are dependent on a concentration of loans with a small number of key customers with whom individuals on our mainland loan staff have built strong relationships. Such a concentration of borrowers carries certain risks. Among other things, financial difficulty at one mortgaged real property could cause a borrower to defer maintenance at another mortgaged real property in order to satisfy current expenses with respect to the troubled mortgaged real property. A borrower could attempt to avert foreclosure on one mortgaged real property by filing a bankruptcy petition that might have the effect of interrupting monthly payments for an indefinite period on all of the related mortgage loans. Furthermore, the average size of loans in our mainland portfolio, especially those originated in Southern California, is larger than that of loans in our Hawaii portfolio, and such larger average loan size could make potential losses related to concentration risk more severe. Loan growth from our mainland operations is dependent on relationships between certain key customers and our current mainland loan staff who in turn have forged relationships with certain key members of our management team, and the departure of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our mainland operations are dependent on the relationships with customers built by our experienced teams of lenders, many of whom have worked with each other and with key individuals on our senior management team. If some or all of our mainland loan officers, or the members of our senior management staff who coordinate mainland operations, were to leave our company, it could adversely affect the expansion of our mainland operations and our ability to grow loans. Governmental regulation may impair our operations or restrict our growth. We are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years Congress and the President have passed and enacted significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board. If we fail to comply with federal and state bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, fine or ultimately put us out of business. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: · the capital that must be maintained; · the kinds of activities that can be engaged in; · the kinds and amounts of investments that can be made; 18 · the locations of offices; · insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance; and · how much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement SOX 404, we are required to furnish an annual report in our Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, because this requirement to provide a management report has only been in effect since 2004, some of our judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, our management report may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors, who are required to issue an attestation report along with our management report, may not agree with management’s assessments. Although we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to provide an attestation report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls, or qualify such report or fail to provide such report in a timely manner, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. We face risks associated with future acquisitions. We may pursue future acquisition opportunities. Risks commonly encountered in existing and future acquisitions include, among other things: · The difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies and branches. · The potential disruption of our ongoing business. · The potential diversion of our management’s time and attention. 19 · The inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. · The inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. · The potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company. · Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired company. · The possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. · Difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired company. · Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the acquired company. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions. Our integration of operations of banks or branches that we acquire may not be successfully accomplished and may take a significant amount of time. Our inability to improve the operating performance of acquired banks and branches or to integrate successfully their operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to hire additional employees and retain consultants to assist with integrating our operations, and we cannot assure you that those individuals or firms will perform as expected or be successful in addressing these issues. Our growth and expansion may strain our ability to manage our operations and our financial resources . Continued growth may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational, personnel and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. We anticipate that our business growth may require continued enhancements to and expansion of our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. Our inability to continue to upgrade or maintain effective operating and financial control systems and to recruit and hire necessary personnel or to successfully integrate new personnel into our operations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we cannot assure you that our existing operating and financial control systems and infrastructure will be adequate to maintain and effectively monitor future growth. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Because we are a holding company with no significant assets other than our bank, we currently depend upon dividends from our bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from our bank. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the restrictions of the Hawaii law. The ability of the banks to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is also subject to the regulatory authority of the FDIC and Hawaii law as further described in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. Business. As of December 31, 2005, Central Pacific Bank could have paid, in the aggregate, approximately $136.3 million in dividends without the prior approval of the FDIC. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people, and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the banking industry in each of our markets. Competition for the best candidates can be intense, particularly in Hawaii, which had an unemployment rate of 2.7% in December 2005, the lowest in the nation, and we may not be able to hire or retain the appropriate number or caliber of staff. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our 21 fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. For example, during 2005, hurricanes Katrina and Rita made landfall and subsequently caused extensive flooding and destruction along the coastal areas of the Gulf of Mexico. While the impact of these hurricanes did not affect us directly, other severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. Certifications The Company has filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. Last year, the Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange on May 9, 2005 its annual CEO 22 certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards required by NYSE rule 303A.12. This year, the Company intends to submit to the NYSE its annual CEO certification within 30 days of the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders, which is scheduled for April 25, 2006. 