ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. The factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. The risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Factors Related to our Business Despite signs of stabilization, uncertainty about the global and U.S. economies could have an adverse effect on us. Although general economic trends and market conditions have stabilized, concerns about the ability to maintain a sustained economic recovery still remain, including concerns over unemployment levels, growing U.S. government and foreign indebtedness, a large budget deficit, and the federal debt ceiling. Downgrades in U.S. and foreign debt instruments could raise borrowing costs and adversely impact the mortgage and housing markets. In general, adverse economic conditions could have one or more of the following negative impacts on us, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations: (i) loan delinquencies may increase; (ii) problem assets and foreclosures may increase leading to higher loan charge-offs; (iii) demand for our products and services may decline; (iv) low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and (v) collateral for loans made by us, especially involving real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry and renewed economic slowdown in Hawaii or a worsening of current market conditions in general would result in additional adverse effects on us. The U.S. economy entered into one of the longest economic recessions to have occurred since the Great Depression of the 1930’s in December 2007. Although general economic trends and market conditions have since stabilized, a renewed economic slowdown in Hawaii or a worsening of current market conditions in general would likely result in additional adverse effects on us, including: (i) loan delinquencies may increase; (ii) problem assets and foreclosures may increase leading to more loan charge-offs; (iii) demand for our products and services may decline; (iv) low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and (v) collateral for loans made by us, especially involving real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Furthermore, unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and operations are closely tied to the Hawaii market. The Hawaii economy relies on tourism, real estate, government and other service-based industries. Declines in tourism, increases in energy costs, the availability of affordable air transportation, adverse weather and natural disasters, and local budget issues impact consumer and corporate spending. As a result, such events may contribute to the deterioration in Hawaii’s general economic condition, which could adversely impact us and our borrowers. 15 The high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans in our portfolio, combined with the deterioration in these sectors caused by the economic downturn, had and may continue to have a significantly more adverse impact on our operating results than many other banks across the nation. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit risk exposure, and as a result have experienced declining credit costs since 2011, we still had $46.8 million in nonperforming assets at December 31, 2013. If our borrowers continue to experience financial difficulty, or if property values securing our real estate loans decline further, we will incur elevated credit costs due to the composition of our loan portfolio even if market conditions improve. Our Hawaii and, to a lesser extent, California commercial real estate and construction loan operations have a considerable effect on our results of operations. The performance of our Hawaii and California commercial real estate and construction loans depends on a number of factors, including the continued stabilization and eventual improvement of the real estate markets in which we operate. As we have seen in the Hawaii and California construction and commercial real estate markets since the latter part of 2007, the strength of the real estate market and the results of our operations could be negatively affected by an economic downturn. In addition, declines in the market for commercial property could cause some of our borrowers to suffer losses on their project, which would negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Declines in housing prices and the supply of existing houses for sale could cause residential developers who are our borrowers to suffer losses on their projects and encounter difficulty in repaying their loans. As of December 31, 2013, our percentage of nonperforming assets to total loans and leases, loans held for sale and other real estate was 1.77%, compared to 4.00% as of December 31, 2012 and 8.99% as of December 31, 2011. We cannot assure you that we will have an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses to cover future losses. If we suffer greater losses than we are projecting, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our net income has been favorably impacted by credits to our provision for loan and lease losses, which may not continue. For twelve consecutive quarters from the first quarter of 2011 though the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded a credit to the provision for loan and lease losses which has favorably impacted our net income. Although other factors of our overall risk profile have improved in recent years and general economic trends and market conditions have stabilized, concerns over the global and U.S. economies still remain. Accordingly, it is possible that the Hawaii or California real estate markets could deteriorate as it did from the latter part of 2007 through 2010. If this occurs, it may result in an increase in loan delinquencies, loan charge-offs, and our allowance for loan and lease losses. Even if economic conditions improve or stay the same, it is possible that we may experience material credit losses and in turn, increases to our allowance for loan and lease losses, due to any number of factors, including but not limited to, the elevated risk still inherent in our existing loan portfolio resulting from our high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans. If that were to occur, or if we continue to have strong growth in our loan portfolio, we may have to record a provision for loan and lease losses which would have an adverse impact on our net income. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and continued deterioration in the real estate market may result in additional losses and adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations have been, and in future periods, will continue to be significantly impacted by the economy in Hawaii, and to a lesser extent, other markets we are exposed to including California. Approximately 73% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013 was comprised of loans primarily collateralized by real estate, with the significant majority of these loans concentrated in Hawaii. Deterioration of the economic environment in Hawaii, California or other markets we are exposed to, including a decline in the real estate market and single-family home resales or a material external shock, may significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As we have seen in the past, material declines in the value of the real estate assets securing many of our commercial real estate loans may lead to significant credit losses in this portfolio. As a result of our particularly high concentration of real estate loans, our portfolio had been and remains particularly susceptible to significant credit losses during economic downturns and adverse changes in the real estate market. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additional loan losses may occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral or guarantees securing these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Our current allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may experience significant loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are regularly reevaluated and are based in part on: 16 · current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; · an evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance for loan and lease losses; · results of examinations of our loan portfolios by regulatory agencies; and · management’s internal review of the loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance for loan and lease losses, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions, as well as the requirements of any supervisory action taken by the bank’s regulators and other regulatory input. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover the losses. Because of the uncertainty in the economy, volatility in the credit and real estate markets, including specifically, the deterioration in the Hawaii and California real estate markets and our high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans, we made significant enhancements to our allowance for loan and lease losses over the past several years and may need to make additional enhancements in the future. In addition, third parties, including our federal and state regulators, periodically evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for loan and lease losses and may communicate with us concerning the methodology or judgments that we have raised in determining the allowance for loan and lease losses. As a result of this input, we may be required to assign different grades to specific credits, increase our provision for loan and lease losses, and/or recognize further loan charge offs. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted. We have generated significant net operating losses (“NOLs”) as a result of our recent losses. We generally are able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years. However, our ability to utilize the NOLs is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 generally restricts the use of NOLs after an “ownership change.” An ownership change occurs if, among other things, the shareholders (or specified groups of shareholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of a corporation’s common stock or are otherwise treated as 5% shareholders under Section 382 and Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of that corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these shareholders over a three-year rolling period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carry forwards. This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of the corporation’s stock on the date of the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL carry forwards. In order to reduce the likelihood that transactions in our common stock will result in an ownership change, on November 23, 2010, we adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, which provides an economic disincentive for any person or group to become an owner, for relevant tax purposes, of 4.99% or more of our common stock. On January 29, 2014, our Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan to extend it for up to an additional two years. To further protect our NOL carryforwards, on May 2, 2011, we filed the Protective Charter Amendment to restrict transfers of our common stock if the effect of the transfer would be to cause the transferee to become an owner, for relevant tax purposes, of 4.99% or more of our common stock (a “Threshold Holder”) or cause the beneficial ownership of our common stock by any Threshold Holder to increase. On January 29, 2014, our Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Protective Charter Amendment to extend it for up to an additional two years, subject to approval by our shareholders. However, we cannot ensure that our ability to use our NOLs to offset income will not become limited in the future. As a result, we could pay taxes earlier and in larger amounts than would be the case if our NOLs were available to reduce our federal income taxes without restriction. Our ability to maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity and required capital levels may be negatively impacted by uncertainty in the economic environment which may, among other things, impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investments or loans, and other sources would have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include concerns regarding the continued deterioration in our financial condition, increased regulatory actions against us and a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans or deposits are concentrated. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the credit markets. 17 The management of liquidity risk is critical to the management of our business and our ability to service our customer base. In managing our balance sheet, our primary source of funding is customer deposits. Our ability to continue to attract these deposits and other funding sources is subject to variability based upon a number of factors including volume and volatility in the securities’ markets, our financial condition, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. The availability and level of deposits and other funding sources is highly dependent upon the perception of the liquidity and creditworthiness of the financial institution, which perception can change quickly in response to market conditions or circumstances unique to a particular company. Concerns about our past and future financial condition or concerns about our credit exposure to other persons could adversely impact our sources of liquidity, financial position, including regulatory capital ratios, results of operations and our business prospects. If the level of deposits were to materially decrease, we would need to raise additional funds by increasing the interest that we pay on certificates of deposits or other depository accounts, seek other debt or equity financing or draw upon our available lines of credit. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, and to a lesser extent, advances from the FHLB and the Federal Reserve discount window, to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our line of credit with the FHLB serves as our primary outside source of liquidity. The Federal Reserve discount window also serves as an additional outside source of liquidity. Borrowings under this arrangement are through the Federal Reserve’s primary facility under the borrower-in-custody program. The duration of borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window are generally for a very short period, usually overnight. In the event that these outside sources of liquidity become unavailable to us, we will need to seek additional sources of liquidity, including selling assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell assets at a level to allow us to repay borrowings or meet our liquidity needs. We constantly monitor our activities with respect to liquidity and evaluate closely our utilization of our cash assets; however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or the cost of funds to us may not be materially and adversely impacted as a result of economic, market, or operational considerations that we may not be able to control. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us and our earnings may be negatively affected. In light of our current volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, our net interest margin could be expected to remain relatively constant during periods of rising interest rates, and to decline during periods of falling interest rates. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including the following: · inflation; · recession; · changes in unemployment; · the money supply; · international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; and · governmental actions. Our asset/liability management strategy may not be able to control our risk from changes in market interest rates and it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may reposition our assets and liabilities to reduce our net interest income volatility. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may further impair our operations or restrict our growth. Under the Compliance MOU, we are required to, among other things, (i) improve the Board of Directors’ oversight of the bank’s CMS; (ii) ensure the establishment and implementation of the bank’s CMS is commensurate with the complexity of the bank’s operations; (iii) perform a full review of all compliance policy and procedures, then revise and adopt policy and procedures to ensure compliance with all consumer protection regulations; (iv) enhance the bank’s training program relating to consumer protection and fair lending regulations; (v) develop and implement an effective internal monitoring program to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; (vi) strengthen the compliance audit function to ensure that the compliance audits are appropriately and comprehensively scoped; (vii) develop and implement internal controls for the bank’s third-party payment processing activity; (viii) strengthen the Board of Directors and senior management’s oversight of third-party relationships and (ix) enhance the bank’s overdraft payment program. We cannot assure you whether or when the Company and the bank will be in full compliance with the Compliance MOU or whether or when the Compliance MOU will be terminated. Even if terminated, we may still be subject to other agreements with regulators that restrict our activities or may also continue to impose capital ratios or other requirements on our business. The requirements and restrictions of the Compliance MOU are judicially enforceable and the Company or the bank’s failure to comply with such requirements and restrictions may subject the Company and the bank to additional regulatory restrictions including: the imposition of additional regulatory requirements or orders; limitations on our activities; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; and further directives which affect our business, including, in the most severe circumstances, termination of the bank’s deposit insurance or appointment of a conservator or receiver for the bank. In addition to the requirements of the Compliance MOU, we are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. In addition, regulations may be adopted which increase our deposit insurance premiums and enact special assessments which could increase expenses associated with running our business and adversely affect our earnings. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the FRBSF, FDIC and DFI and may be subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the CFPB which was recently created pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. If we fail to comply with federal and state bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, impose fines on us or ultimately cease our operations. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: · the capital that must be maintained; · the kinds of activities that can be engaged in; · the kinds and amounts of investments that can be made; · the locations of offices; · insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance; and · how much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S. While the full effects of the legislation on us cannot yet be determined, it could result in higher compliance and other costs as a result of new regulations and new regulatory initiatives, which could adversely affect our business. 19 In addition, bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and bank holding companies, including the bank and CPF, for unsafe or unsound practices in the conduct of their businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the authority. Enforcement actions against us could include a federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, the issuance of additional orders that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New regulatory capital standards impose enhanced capital adequacy requirements on us. Increased regulatory capital requirements (and the associated compliance costs) which have been adopted by federal banking regulators impose additional capital requirements on our business. The administration of existing capital adequacy laws as well as adoption of new laws and regulations relating to capital adequacy, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and could substantially restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase any of our capital stock, or pay executive bonuses. In addition, increased regulatory capital requirements could require us to raise additional capital which would dilute our existing shareholders at the time of such capital issuance. If we are unable to effectively manage the composition of our investment securities portfolio, which we expect will continue to comprise a significant portion of our earning assets, our net interest income and net interest margin could be adversely affected. Our primary sources of interest income include interest on loans and leases, as well as interest earned on investment securities. Interest earned on investment securities represented 25.4% of our interest income in the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 24.2% of our interest income in the year ended December 31, 2012. Accordingly, effectively managing our investment securities portfolio to generate interest income while managing the composition and risks associated with that portfolio, including the mix of government agency and non-agency securities, has become increasingly important. If we are unable to effectively manage our investment securities portfolio or if the interest income generated by our investment securities portfolio declines, our net interest income and net interest margin could be adversely affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 20 Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to deposits at our bank or seek higher yielding deposits causing us to incur increased funding costs. We are facing increasing deposit-pricing pressures. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments as providing superior expected returns or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for the bank’s customers to transfer funds into alternative investments including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When the bank’s customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. The fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. It also can materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. In an effort to stimulate the economy, the federal government and its agencies have taken various steps to keep interest rates at extremely low levels. Our net interest income and net interest margin may be negatively impacted by a prolonged low interest rate environment like we are currently experiencing as it may result in us holding lower yielding loans and securities on our balance sheet, particularly if we are unable to replace the maturing higher yielding assets with similar higher yielding assets. Changes in the slope of the yield curve, which represents the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest income and net interest margin. Historically, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. When the yield curve flattens, as is the case in the current interest rate environment, our net interest income and net interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. If we continue to see an improvement in national economic conditions or other changes occur, there is a potential that the FRB will increase interest rates. Should the FRB raise interest rates significantly and rapidly, there is potential for decreased demand for our loan products, an increase in our cost of funds, and curtailment of the current economic recovery. Changes in FRB policies and our regulatory environment generally are beyond our control, and we are unable to predict what changes may occur or the manner in which any future changes may affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions can offer interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we have to offer higher rates of interest then we currently offer on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Because we are a holding company with no significant operations other than our bank, we depend upon dividends from our bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Hawaii law only permits the bank to pay dividends out of retained earnings as defined under Hawaii banking law (“Statutory Retained Earnings”), which differs from GAAP retained earnings. At December 31, 2013, the bank had Statutory Retained Earnings of $240.4 million. Our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders is subject to restrictions under federal and Hawaii law, including restrictions imposed by the FRB and covenants set forth in various agreements we are a party to, including covenants set forth in our subordinated debentures. 21 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed and implemented to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. In addition, there are a limited number of qualified persons in our local marketplace with the knowledge and experience required to effectively maintain our information technology systems and implement our technology initiatives. Failure to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, or keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are implementing changes to our operations to improve our efficiency ratio that may adversely impact our results of operations. We have begun several initiatives to improve our efficiency ratio. Several key initiatives involve changes to our technology and information systems including outsourcing the data centers and hardware for our core information technology system to Fiserv, Inc., which is our existing core software application provider, and designing, developing, and implementing our data warehouse and customer relationship management programs. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2013, we began to implement a staff right-sizing plan. These initiatives are currently in progress and will continue into 2014. With the assistance of third-party consultants, we have completed comprehensive assessments and plans and are effectively managing and monitoring the execution of these initiatives. However, as a result of the significance of the changes, we could experience adverse effects on our operations. These adverse effects may include system transactional or reporting errors and delays, short-term reduced productivity, undesired personnel turnover, and loss of key customer relationships. If any of these effects were to occur it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, these changes could require us to change our internal and management control environment. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various legal claims and litigation. From time to time, customers, employees and others that we do business with make claims and take legal action against us for various business occurrences, including the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Regardless of whether these claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Even if these claims and legal actions do not result in a financial liability or reputational damage, defending these claims and actions have resulted in, and will continue to result in, increased legal and professional services costs, which adds to our noninterest expense and negatively impacts our operating results. 22 We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets we operate. Additionally, various out of state banks conduct significant business in the market areas in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings banks, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; · the ability to expand our market position; · the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; · customer satisfaction with our level of service; and · industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of our financial condition may also affect our competitiveness. Customers may decide not to do business with the bank due to its financial condition. We have and continue to face additional regulatory restrictions that our competitors may not be subject to, including reducing our commercial real estate loan portfolio and improving the overall risk profile of the Company, which could adversely impact our ability to compete and attract and retain customers. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there is a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the regional banking industry, especially in the Hawaii market. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing, and technical personnel, and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Banking Officer, and certain other employees. Our business could be adversely affected by unfavorable actions from rating agencies. Ratings assigned by ratings agencies to us, our affiliates or our securities may impact the decision of certain customers, in particular, institutions, to do business with us. A rating downgrade or a negative rating could adversely affect our deposits and our business relationships. On May 16, 2012, Fitch Ratings upgraded the long-term Issuer Default Rating of the Company and the bank to BB- from B+ and assigned a Stable Rating Outlook. On September 23, 2013, Fitch Ratings upgraded the long-term Issuer Default Rating of the Company and the bank to BB+ from BB- and affirmed a Stable Rating Outlook. However, our ratings may not improve further and may be downgraded in the future if there are adverse developments concerning our business. 23 We may suffer substantial losses due to our agreements to indemnify investors in the Private Placement against a broad range of potential claims. In our agreements with the investors in the Private Placement, we agreed to indemnify the investors for a broad range of claims, including losses resulting from the inaccuracy or breach of representations or warranties made by us in such agreements and the breach by us to perform our covenants contained in such agreements. While these indemnities are subject to various limitations, if claims were successfully brought against us, it could potentially result in significant losses for the Company. As a result of the recapitalization, Carlyle and Anchorage are substantial holders of our common stock. Following the closing of the recapitalization, Anchorage and Carlyle each became beneficial owners of our outstanding common stock, with their respective ownership percentages each equating to approximately 22% as of December 31, 2013. Each has a representative on our Board of Directors. Accordingly, Anchorage and Carlyle have influence over the election of directors to our board and over corporate policy, including decisions to enter into mergers or other extraordinary transactions. In addition, Carlyle and Anchorage have certain preemptive rights to maintain their respective fully diluted percentage ownership of our common stock in the event of certain issuances of securities by us. In pursuing their economic interests, Anchorage and Carlyle may make decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions that may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting or adversely affect our access to sources of liquidity. Furthermore, because of the inherent limitations of any system of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls and fraud, even effective internal controls may not prevent or detect all misstatements. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 related to our allowance for loan and lease losses calculation as described in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” in this Form 10-K. Risk Factors Related to Our Securities The market price of our common stock could decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · failure to comply with all of the requirements of any governmental orders or agreements we are or may become subject to and the possibility of resulting action by the regulators; · deterioration of asset quality; · the incurrence of losses; · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · changes in revenue or earnings/losses estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; · failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings/losses estimates; · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · additions or departures of key personnel; 24 · actions by institutional shareholders; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · future sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock in short sale transactions; · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; · proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; · breaches in our security systems and loss of customer data; · anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, have experienced significant volatility over the past few years. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. In addition, sales of shares by investors in the Private Placement may cause our share price to decrease. Accordingly, the common stock that you purchase may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent individual shareholders from being able to sell their shares when they want or at prices they find attractive. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. The transferability of our common stock is limited as a result of the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan and the Protective Charter Amendment. As described under “—Risk Factors Related to our Business—Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted,” we have generated significant NOLs as a result of our recent losses. In order to reduce the likelihood that transactions in our common stock would result in an ownership change, on November 23, 2010, we adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, which provides an economic disincentive for any person or group to become an owner, for relevant tax purposes, of 4.99% or more of our common stock. On January 29, 2014, our Board of Directors approved an extension of the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan by up to an additional two years. To further protect our NOLs, we filed the Protective Charter Amendment on May 2, 2011 to restrict transfers of our stock if the effect of an attempted transfer would cause the transferee to become a Threshold Holder or cause the beneficial ownership of a Threshold Holder to increase. The Protective Charter Amendment expires on the earliest of (i) May 2, 2014, (ii) such time as the Board of Directors determines the Protective Charter Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of our tax benefits and (iii) the date the Board of Directors determines that the Protective Charter Amendment is no longer in our and our shareholders’ best interest, provided, however, our Board of Directors has approved an amendment to the Protective Charter Amendment to extend the May 2, 2014 date to May 2, 2016, subject to approval by our shareholders. The Tax Benefits Preservation Plan and the Protective Charter Amendment have the effect of limiting transferability of our common stock because they may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire our common stock under the circumstances described above and, in the case of the Protective Charter Amendment, prohibit certain acquisitions of our common stock as described above. These transfer restrictions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to consummate an acquisition of the Company. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common shares and may limit a shareholder’s ability to dispose of our common shares by reducing the class of potential acquirers for our common shares. 25 Anti-takeover provisions in our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and applicable federal and state law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and certain other actions we have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These include, among other things, the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, the Protective Charter Amendment and the authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock by action of the board of directors acting alone, thus without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, applicable provisions of federal and state law require regulatory approval in connection with certain acquisitions of our common stock and supermajority voting provisions in connection with certain transactions. These provisions of our restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and federal and state law may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Resales of our common stock in the public market may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We issued a large number of common stock to the investors in the Private Placement. Carlyle and Anchorage (the “Lead Investors”) have certain registration rights with respect to the common stock held by them. The registration rights for the Lead Investors will allow them to sell their common stock without compliance with the volume and manner of sale limitations under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by the Lead Investors from time to time of a substantial amount of the common stock held by them. Our common stock is equity and therefore is subordinate to our subsidiaries’ indebtedness and preferred stock. Our common stock constitutes equity interests and does not constitute indebtedness. As such, common stock will rank junior to all current and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in the event of our liquidation. We may, and the bank and our other subsidiaries may also, incur additional indebtedness from time to time and may increase our aggregate level of outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had $90.0 million in face amount of trust preferred securities outstanding and accrued and unpaid dividends thereon of $0.2 million. Additionally, holders of common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of our preferred stock that may be outstanding from time to time. The Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, then the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. There is a limited trading market for our common stock and as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NYSE, the volume of trading in our common shares is lower than many other companies listed on the NYSE. A public trading market with depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment. An investment in our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government. Completion of our Tender Offer and the transactions contemplated by the Repurchase Agreements we have entered into with our two largest shareholders may reduce the liquidity of our common stock. Depending on how many shares of our common stock we repurchase in the Tender Offer and pursuant to the Repurchase Agreements, our “public float” (the number of shares owned by non-affiliate shareholders and available for trading in the securities markets) may be substantially reduced. This reduction in our public float may result in lower stock prices and/or reduced liquidity in the trading market for our common stock. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Certifications We have filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. Last year, we submitted to the NYSE on May 14, 2013 our annual CEO certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. This year, we intend to submit to the NYSE our annual CEO certification within 30 days of the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders, which is scheduled for April 25, 2014. 