Item 1A. Risk Factors Below are a series of risk factors that may affect our results of operations or financial performance. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. Risk Factors Relating to the Company and Industry Related Risks Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of historically high fuel costs, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel or further increases in fuel costs could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of aircraft fuel, which in turn are often affected by global events. Fuel prices have increased substantially over the past several years and sharply in the last quarter of 2007. Because of the amount of fuel needed to operate the airline, even a relatively small increase in the price of fuel can have a significant aggregate effect on our costs. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry and market forces, we can offer no assurance that we may be able to increase our fares or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset fuel prices. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, we cannot predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. In addition, from time to time we enter into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. Our ability to hedge in the future, however, may be limited. See also the discussion in Part II, Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 16 Table of Contents US Airways Group could experience significant operating losses in the future. Although US Airways Group reported operating profits in 2006 and in 2007, there is no guarantee of future profitability. There are several reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, why US Airways Group might fail to achieve profitability and might in fact experience significant losses. In particular, the condition of the economy and historic high fuel prices have an impact on our operating results, and overall worsening economic conditions increase the risk that we will experience losses. Since early 2001, the U.S. airline industry’s revenue performance has fallen short of what would have been expected based on historical growth trends. This shortfall has been caused by a number of factors discussed in these risk factors. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act (the “RLA”). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board. These processes do not apply to our current and ongoing negotiations for post-merger integrated labor agreements, and this means unions may not lawfully engage in concerted refusals to work, such as strikes, slow-downs, sick-outs or other similar activity. Nonetheless, there is a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and impair its financial performance. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure or disruption of these systems could harm our business. To operate our business, we depend on automated systems, including our computerized airline reservation systems, our flight operations systems, our telecommunication systems and our websites. Our website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information on a timely and reliable basis. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services and could cause our customers to purchase tickets from another airline. The inability to maintain labor costs at competitive levels could harm our financial performance. Our business plan includes assumptions about labor costs going forward. Currently, the labor costs of both US Airways and AWA are very competitive and very similar; however, we cannot assure you that labor costs going forward will remain competitive, because some of our agreements are amendable now and others may become amendable, because competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs or because we may agree to higher-cost provisions in our current labor negotiations. Approximately 85% of the employees within US Airways Group are represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. In the United States, there are nine labor groups at US Airways and AWA, and they are represented by five different unions. Some of these labor groups are fully integrated, but others, including the pilots, flight attendants, mechanics, and fleet service agents, are not. There are also five labor groups represented by four different unions at Piedmont, and five labor groups represented by five different unions at PSA. There are additional unionized groups of US Airways employees abroad. Some of our unions have brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration. Unions may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in the bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. If successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create additional costs that we did not anticipate. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to operate and grow our route network in the future is dependent on the availability of adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system. In order to operate our existing flight schedule and, where appropriate, add service along new or existing routes, we must be able to obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable) and office space. For example, at our largest hub airport, we are seeking to increase international service despite challenging airport space constraints. The nation’s aging air traffic control infrastructure presents challenges as well. The ability of the air traffic control system to handle traffic in high-density areas where we have a large concentration of flights is critical to our ability to operate our existing schedule. Also, as airports around the world become more congested, we cannot always be sure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner given operating constraints at airports throughout our network. Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of anticipated fleet capacity may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The success of our business depends on, among other things, the ability to operate a certain number and type of aircraft. In many cases, the aircraft we intend to operate are not yet in our fleet, but we have contractual commitments to purchase or lease them. If for any reason we were unable to secure deliveries of new aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates, this could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Our failure to integrate newly purchased aircraft into our fleet as planned might require us to seek extensions of the terms for some leased aircraft. Such unanticipated extensions may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point at which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs. If new aircraft orders are not filled on a timely basis, we could face higher monthly rental rates. We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result. We are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. Several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of de-icing fluid (glycol) to local groundwater, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport de-icing facilities. Such efforts are likely to impose costs and restrictions on airlines using those airports. We do not believe, however, that such environmental developments will have a material impact on our capital expenditures or otherwise adversely affect its operations, operating costs or competitive position. We are also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require us to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. Under federal law, generators of waste materials, and owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. We have liability for such costs at various sites, although the future costs associated with the remediation efforts are currently not expected to have a material adverse affect on our business. We have various leases and agreements with respect to real property, tanks and pipelines with airports and other operators. Under these leases and agreements, we have agreed to standard language indemnifying the lessor or operator against environmental liabilities associated with the real property or operations described under the agreement, even if we are not the party responsible for the initial event that caused the environmental damage. We also participate in leases with other airlines in fuel consortiums and fuel committees at airports, where such indemnities are generally joint and several among the participating airlines. Recently, climate change issues and greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon) have attracted international and domestic regulatory interest that may result in the imposition of additional regulation on airlines. Any such regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results. Governmental authorities in several U.S. and foreign cities are also considering or have already implemented aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews and limitations on daytime take- 18 Table of Contents offs and landings. We have been able to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, but our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. The travel industry continues to face ongoing security concerns. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and continuing terrorist threats materially impacted and continue to impact air travel. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act mandates improved flight deck security; deployment of federal air marshals on board flights; improved airport perimeter access security; airline crew security training; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel; additional provision of passenger data to U.S. Customs and enhanced background checks. These increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks and other such measures as may be introduced in the future generate higher operating costs for airlines. A concurrent increase in airport security charges and procedures, such as restrictions on carry-on baggage, has also had and may continue to have a disproportionate impact on short-haul travel, which constitutes a significant portion of US Airways’ flying and revenue. We would also be materially impacted in the event of further terrorist attacks or perceived terrorist threats. If we incur problems with any of our third party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including Express operations, aircraft maintenance, ground services and facilities, reservations and baggage handling. Similar agreements may be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. These agreements are generally subject to termination after notice by the third party service provider. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates and increased costs of financing could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. A substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates. These are primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars, or LIBOR. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. See also the discussion of interest rate risk in Part II, Item 7A. Also, changes in the financial markets may increase our costs to obtain funding needed for the acquisition of aircraft that we have contractual commitments to purchase. Our high level of fixed obligations limits our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limits our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, aircraft leases and financings, aircraft purchase commitments, leases and developments of airport and other facilities and other cash obligations. We also have guaranteed costs associated with our regional alliances and commitments to purchase aircraft. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these obligations: • A decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase. 19 Table of Contents • We may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. Our obligations also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our existing indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets. Moreover, the terms of our Citicorp credit facility require us to maintain consolidated unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of not less than $1.25 billion, with not less than $750 million (subject to partial reductions upon certain reductions in the outstanding principal amount of the loan) of that amount held in accounts subject to control agreements. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations depends on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic and political conditions. A failure to pay our fixed costs or a breach of the contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by the credit card servicers and the exercise of remedies by our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our contractual obligations, repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs. Changes in government regulation could increase our operating costs and limit our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the DOT, the FAA, the TSA and the Department of Homeland Security have issued a number of directives and other regulations. These requirements impose substantial costs on airlines. The FAA has proposed a far-reaching set of rules governing flight operations at New York LaGuardia Airport. The new rules could result in dramatic changes to the type and number of services that we offer in the future at LaGuardia. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed or discussed from time to time, including by the current Congress, including recent discussions about a “passenger bill of rights,” and, if adopted, these could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. The state of New York has already adopted such a measure, and other states are contemplating legislation. Also, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be available. We cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our operating costs. In addition, increased environmental regulation may increase costs or restrict our operations. Ongoing data security compliance requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data breach could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of customer and other sensitive information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit existing vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store database information. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the U.S., and abroad (particularly in the EU), including requirements for varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach. Many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed certain data security standards that we must meet. In particular, we were required by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, founded by the credit card companies, to comply by September 30, 2007 with their highest level of data security standards. While we have made substantial progress, we did not fully meet these standards as of September 30, 2007, and we are continuing diligently to implement the remaining requirements. In addition to the Payment Card Industry Standards discussed above, failure to comply with the other privacy and data use and security requirements of our partners or related laws and regulations to which we are subject may 20 Table of Contents expose us to fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business. In addition, failure to address appropriately these issues could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. In addition, we have obtained third party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. The program has been extended, with the same conditions and premiums, until March 31, 2008. Under Vision 100 - Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act, the President may continue the insurance program until December 31, 2008. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. Because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results. The airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, some of which have more financial resources or lower cost structures than ours, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In many of our markets we compete with at least one low-cost air carrier. Our revenues are sensitive to numerous factors, and the actions of other carriers in the areas of pricing, scheduling and promotions can have a substantial adverse impact on overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. In addition, because a significant portion of US Airways’ traffic is short-haul travel, US Airways is more susceptible than other major airlines to competition from surface transportation such as automobiles and trains. Low cost carriers have a profound impact on industry revenues. Using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares, particularly those targeted at business passengers, in order to shift demand from larger, more-established airlines. Some low cost carriers, which have cost structures lower than ours, have better financial performance and significant numbers of aircraft on order for delivery in the next few years. These low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through growth and could continue to have an impact on the overall performance of US Airways Group. Industry consolidation could weaken our competitive position. If mergers or other forms of industry consolidation take place, US Airways Group might or might not be included as a participant. Depending on which carriers combine and which assets, if any, are sold or otherwise transferred to other carriers in connection with such combinations, our competitive position relative to the post-combination carriers or other carriers that obtain assets could be harmed. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect the results of our operations or our financial performance. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We operate principally through primary hubs in Charlotte, Philadelphia and Phoenix and secondary hubs/focus cities in Las Vegas, New York, Washington, D.C. and Boston. A majority of our flights either originate in or fly into one of these locations. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and adversely impact our financial condition and operations. Our business is subject to weather factors and seasonal variations in airline travel, which cause our results to fluctuate. Our operations are vulnerable to severe weather conditions in parts of our network that could disrupt service, create air traffic control problems, decrease revenue, and increase costs, such as during hurricane season in the Caribbean and Southeast United States, snow and severe winters in the Northeast United States and thunderstorms in the Eastern United States. In addition, the air travel business historically fluctuates on a seasonal basis. Due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Our results of operations will likely reflect weather factors and seasonality, and therefore quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year, and the prior results of US Airways Group are not necessarily indicative of our future results. We may be adversely affected by global events that affect travel behavior. Our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected by global events beyond our control. Wars or other military conflicts, including the war in Iraq may depress air travel, particularly on international routes. An outbreak of a contagious disease such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), avian flu, or an other influenza-type illness, if it were to persist for an extended period, could again materially affect the airline industry and us by reducing revenues and impacting travel behavior. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. As we expand our international operations, we will have significant operating revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currencies can significantly affect our operating performance and the value of our assets and liabilities located outside of the United States. The use of US Airways Group’s pre-merger NOLs and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. From the time of the merger until the first half of 2007, a significant portion of US Airways Group’s common stock was beneficially owned by a small number of equity investors. Since the merger, some of the equity investors have sold portions of their holdings and other investors have purchased US Airways Group stock, and, as a result, we believe an “ownership change” as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 382 occurred for US Airways Group in February 2007. When a company undergoes such an ownership change, Section 382 limits the future ability to utilize any net operating losses, or NOL, generated before the ownership change and certain subsequently recognized “built-in” losses and deductions, if any, existing as of the date of the ownership change. A company’s ability to utilize new NOL arising after the ownership change is not affected. Until US Airways Group has used all 22 Table of Contents of its existing NOL, future significant shifts in ownership of US Airways Group’s common stock could result in a new Section 382 limit on our NOL as of the date of an additional ownership change. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on September 27, 2005 upon the effectiveness of our merger. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • movements in fuel prices; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • general market conditions. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of US Airways Group’s 7% senior convertible notes due 2020 will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of US Airways Group and its stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the ability of US Airways Group’s board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; • a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; • a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders; • a requirement that holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors approve amendment of the amended and restated bylaws; and • super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of US Airways Group’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of US Airways Group’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking 23 Table of Contents to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, US Airways Group is subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders, such as our equity investors at the time of the merger, whose acquisition of US Airways Group’s securities is approved by the board of directors prior to the investment under Section 203. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting and ownership by foreign owners. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of shares held by such persons would exceed 24.9% of the voting stock of our company. In addition, any attempt to transfer equity securities to a non-U.S. citizen in excess of 49.9% of our outstanding equity securities will be void and of no effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 