ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the principal risks that we believe are material to our business and should be considered by our security holders. We operate in a continually changing business environment and, therefore, new risks emerge from time to time. This section contains forward-looking statements. For an explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements, see "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." WE HAVE A HISTORY OF NET LOSSES, AN ACCUMULATED STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT AND PENDING OBLIGATIONS FOR WHICH WE DO NOT CURRENTLY HAVE SUFFICIENT LIQUIDITY. ACCORDINGLY, WE HAVE STATED IN OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCLUDED HEREIN THAT THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN UNLESS A SUCCESSFUL RESTRUCTURING OCCURS. We have had a history of net losses. Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover our relatively high percentage of fixed costs, including the interest costs on our debt 17 Table of Contents and our depreciation expense. We also have an accumulated stockholders' deficit of $443.8 million at December 31, 2008. Additionally, our Preferred Income Equity Redeemable Shares ("PIERS") are required to be redeemed in August 2009, at which time we will be required to redeem all of the PIERS for cash at 100% of the liquidation preference ($287.5 million), plus accrued and unpaid dividends ($31.3 million assuming dividends are accrued and not paid through the mandatory redemption date). Given the current negative conditions in the economy generally and the credit markets in particular, there is substantial uncertainty that we will be able to effect a refinancing of our debt on or prior to maturity or the PIERS prior to their mandatory redemption date on August 15, 2009. Our auditors, KPMG LLP, have also included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion on our consolidated financial statements that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. See page F-4. If we are unable to refinance or restructure the PIERS at or prior to the mandatory redemption date, such failure would constitute a default under our Credit Facility, which would permit the lenders to accelerate the obligations thereunder. If the lenders were to accelerate the amounts due under the Credit Facility, a cross-default would also be triggered under our public debt indentures, which would likely result in most or all of our long-term debt becoming due and payable. In that event, we would be unable to fund these obligations. Such a circumstance could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the interests of our creditors and stockholders. Accordingly, we have stated in our financial statements included herein that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern unless a successful restructuring occurs. We are exploring a number of alternatives for the refinancing of our indebtedness and the PIERS, including a restructuring either in or out-of-court. We believe the consummation of a successful restructuring is critical to our continued viability. Any restructuring will likely be subject to a number of conditions, many of which will be outside of our control, including the agreement of our PIERS holders, creditors and other parties, and may limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards if there is an ownership change, which is likely. We can make no assurances that any restructuring that we pursue will be successful, or what the terms thereof would be or what, if anything, our existing debt and equity holders would receive in any restructuring, which will depend on our enterprise value, although we believe that any restructuring would be highly dilutive to our existing equity holders and certain debt holders. In addition, we can make no assurances with respect to what the value of our debt and equity will be following the consummation of any restructuring. We may be compelled to seek an in-court solution in the form of a pre-packaged or pre-arranged filing under Title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C. §§ 101, et seq., as amended ("Chapter 11") if we are unable to successfully negotiate a timely out-of-court restructuring agreement with our PIERS holders, common stockholders and creditors. Such a court filing would likely occur prior to the maturity of the PIERS or well in advance of such date, if we were to conclude at such time that an out-of-court solution is not feasible or advantageous. A LONG AND PROTRACTED CHAPTER 11 PROCEEDING COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND DIVERT THE ATTENTION OF OUR MANAGEMENT FROM OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS AND IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR BUSINESS PLAN. While we expect to focus our efforts on a timely and efficient restructuring, either in the form of a timely out-of-court settlement with key creditors and certain other investors or a "pre-packaged" or "pre-arranged" Chapter 11 filing, in which we seek a quick resolution by having secured the agreement of key creditors in advance, a long and protracted Chapter 11 proceeding could still occur and could disrupt our business and divert the attention of our management from operation of our business and implementation of our business plan. 18 Table of Contents A pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan is usually designed to avoid material adverse impacts on business operations. Under a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan, we would expect to meet substantially all, if not all, of our obligations to our licensors, vendors, suppliers, guests, sponsors and employees, and treat these parties essentially as though we had not filed. As with any judicial proceeding, there are risks of delay with the confirmation of the plan and there are risks of objections from certain stakeholders, including any lenders that vote to reject the plan, that could further delay the process and potentially cause a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan to be rejected by the court. Any material delay in the confirmation of a Chapter 11 proceeding would not only add substantial expense and uncertainty to the process, but could adversely affect our operations during this period. If a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan is unsuccessful, we would likely become subject to a "free fall" Chapter 11 proceeding, which could become a lengthy, costly and highly disruptive proceeding, and have a more pronounced adverse effect on our business than a filing made pursuant to a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan. A "free fall" proceeding would likely involve contested issues with our multiple creditors, including our lessors, parties to supply contracts, parties to all of our license agreements and the numerous other contractual arrangements to which we are a party. Moreover, in such a proceeding, we do not believe that we would be able to obtain a replacement credit facility having terms as favorable as our current Credit Facility if we were required to obtain a replacement facility. A Chapter 11 filing that is not pre-packaged or pre-arranged could also cause critical members of our senior management team to pursue other opportunities following the expiration of their employment agreements with us. Most of our current employment agreements expire in late 2009 and early 2010 and new management agreements will likely be contingent upon the successful consummation of a restructuring plan. Moreover, a time consuming and disruptive Chapter 11 proceeding could have a negative impact on our cash flows due to a likely reduction in trade credit terms and increase the possibility of a decrease in customer attendance, including daily attendees to our parks and purchasers of advance and group tickets and season passes, all of whom could be concerned regarding our viability. A CHAPTER 11 FILING COULD HAVE OTHER ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES, EVEN IF PRE-PACKAGED OR PRE-ARRANGED. Any Chapter 11 filing, even in connection with a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan, may have adverse effects on our business and operations. A Chapter 11 filing could create uncertainties about the future of our business, which could cause (i) suppliers to attempt to cancel our contracts or restrict ordinary credit terms, require financial assurances of performance or refrain entirely from shipping goods, (ii) employees to become distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other career opportunities, (iii) a reduction in sponsorship and international development revenues, and (iv) our guests to consider spending their discretionary dollars on other entertainment alternatives during the current economic crisis. There is also a risk that the threat or commencement of a Chapter 11 proceeding, in light of the deterioration in the U.S. economy, could cause investors in the Partnership Parks to "put" certain of their investments to us for repayment pursuant to the Partnership Parks agreements. Depending upon the extent of these puts, there is a risk that we could ultimately be required to forfeit the Partnership Parks to Time Warner, which has guaranteed our put obligations under the Partnership Parks agreements if we fail to meet such obligations. Additionally, even if it is not required to fund any puts, Time Warner could acquire our interests in the Partnership Parks if we otherwise default under our arrangements with them. Also, pursuant to our interest rate swap arrangements, a Chapter 11 filing could result in the acceleration of our payments thereunder, which depending upon then existing interest rates could result in a substantial payment to the counterparty. Some of these concerns and effects typically become more acute when a Chapter 11 proceeding continues for a protracted period without indication of how or when the proceeding may be completed. 19 Table of Contents In addition, if we file a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan or a "free fall" Chapter 11 proceeding is commenced, there is a risk that our counterparties may object to our assumption of executory contracts (including our important licenses and intellectual property), and if those counterparties succeed, we would lose the benefits of these agreements. We believe that many of these contracts including, without limitation, our license agreements for the Warner Bros., DC Comics, Hanna-Barbara, The Wiggles and Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends characters, as well as our sponsorship agreements, are important to the operation of our parks and the customer experience at those parks, and that our international development agreements are important to the future growth and development of our brand. OUR HIGH LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS AND OTHER MONETARY OBLIGATIONS REQUIRE THAT A SIGNIFICANT PART OF OUR CASH FLOW BE USED TO PAY INTEREST AND FUND THESE OTHER OBLIGATIONS. We have a high level of debt. Our total indebtedness, as of December 31, 2008, was approximately $2.37 billion, plus approximately $302 million of PIERS including dividends in arrears. Based on estimated interest rates for floating-rate debt and after giving effect to applicable interest rate swaps we entered into in February 2008, and the debt exchange we effected in June 2008, annual cash interest payments for 2009 on (i) non-revolving credit debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 and (ii) anticipated levels of working capital revolving borrowings for the year will aggregate approximately $175 million net of cash interest expected to be received. In addition, the annual dividend requirements on our outstanding PIERS total approximately $20.8 million (we also have $20.8 million of dividends in arrears related to the decision of our Board of Directors not to declare and pay the second, third and fourth quarter dividends in 2008 and the first quarter dividend in 2009). See the contractual obligations chart on page 45. We are required to redeem for cash on August 15, 2009 all of our outstanding PIERS at 100% of the liquidation preference ($287.5 million), plus accrued and unpaid dividends ($31.3 million assuming dividends are accrued and not paid through the mandatory redemption date). See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, Capital Commitments and Resources." In addition to making interest payments on debt and our obligations under the PIERS, we must satisfy the following obligations with respect to the Partnership Parks: •We must make annual distributions to our partners in the Partnership Parks, which will amount to approximately $60.7 million in 2009 (of which we will receive approximately $20.0 million in 2009 as a result of our ownership interest in the parks) with similar amounts (adjusted for changes in cost of living) payable in future years. •We must spend a minimum of approximately 6% of each park's annual revenues over specified periods for capital expenditures. •Each year we must offer to purchase a specified maximum number of partnership units from our partners in the Partnership Parks, which number accumulates to the extent units are not tendered. Since only an immaterial number of units have been tendered in the annual offerings to purchase, the maximum number of units that we could be required to purchase in 2009 would result in an aggregate payment by us of approximately $335.2 million. The annual incremental unit purchase obligation (without taking into account accumulation from prior years) aggregates approximately $31.1 million for both parks based on current purchase prices. As we purchase additional units, we are entitled to a proportionate increase in our share of the minimum annual distributions. We expect to use cash flow from the operations at the Partnership Parks to satisfy our annual distribution and capital expenditure obligations with respect to these parks before we use any of our other funds. The two partnerships generated approximately $37.9 million of aggregate net cash 20 Table of Contents provided by operating activities after capital expenditures during 2008 (net of advances from the general partner). The obligations relating to Six Flags Over Georgia continue until 2027 and those relating to Six Flags Over Texas continue until 2028. Although we are contractually committed to make approximately CAD$13.4 million of capital and other expenditures at La Ronde no later than May 1, 2011, the vast majority of our capital expenditures in 2009 and beyond will be made on a discretionary basis, although such expenditures are important to the parks' ability to sustain and grow revenues. We spent $90.3 million on capital expenditures for all of our continuing operations in the 2008 calendar year (net of property insurance recoveries) and we plan on spending approximately $100 million on capital expenditures in 2009. Our high level of debt, stockholders' deficit and other obligations could have important negative consequences to us and investors in our securities. These include the following: •We may not be able to satisfy all of our obligations, including, but not limited to, our obligations under the instruments governing our outstanding debt, which would cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration on most of our other debt. •We could have difficulties obtaining necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, Partnership Park obligations, refinancings or other purposes. •We will have to use a significant part of our cash flow to make payments on our debt and to satisfy the other obligations set forth above, which may reduce the capital available for operations and expansion. •Adverse economic or industry conditions may have more of a negative impact on us. We cannot be sure that cash generated from our parks will be as high as we expect or that our expenses will not be higher than we expect. Because a large portion of our expenses are fixed in any given year, our operating cash flow margins are highly dependent on revenues, which are largely driven by attendance levels, in-park spending and sponsorship and licensing activity. A lower amount of cash generated from our parks or higher expenses than expected, when coupled with our significant debt obligations, could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS—OUR FINANCIAL AND OPERATING ACTIVITIES ARE LIMITED BY RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN THE TERMS OF OUR FINANCINGS. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may significantly limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain types of transactions, including the following: •incurring additional indebtedness; •creating liens on our assets; •paying dividends; •selling assets; •engaging in mergers or acquisitions; and •making investments. Further, under the Credit Facility, our principal direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Six Flags Operations, Inc., and its subsidiaries are required to comply in certain circumstances with a senior secured leverage ratio and a leverage ratio. 21 Table of Contents Although we are currently in compliance with all of these financial covenants and restrictions, events beyond our control, such as weather and economic, financial and industry conditions, may affect our ability to continue meeting these financial ratios. The need to comply with these financial covenants and restrictions could limit our ability to execute our strategy and expand our business or prevent us from borrowing more money when necessary. If we breach any of the covenants contained in the Credit Facility or the indentures governing our outstanding notes, the principal of and accrued interest on the applicable debt could become immediately due and payable. In addition, that default could constitute a cross-default under the instruments governing all of our other indebtedness. If a cross-default occurs, the maturity of almost all of our indebtedness could be accelerated and the debt become immediately due and payable. If that happens, we would not be able to satisfy our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and the interests of our creditors and stockholders. We can make no assurances that we will be able to comply with these restrictions in the future or that our compliance would not cause us to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. We also cannot predict the types or severity of covenants that could accompany any new financing or restructuring of our existing obligations. THE GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS AND RECESSION MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION THAT WE CURRENTLY CANNOT PREDICT. The global financial crisis and recession may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. The current negative economic conditions affect our guests' levels of discretionary spending. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy or us, a continued economic slowdown or further deterioration in the economy, could adversely affect the frequency with which our guests choose to visit our theme parks and the amount that our guests spend on our products when they visit. This could lead to a decrease in our revenues, operating income and cash flows. Additionally, the global financial crisis and recession could impact our ability to obtain supplies, services and credit as well as the ability of third parties to meet their obligations to us, including, for example, payment of claims by our insurance carriers and/or the funding of our line of credit by the participating lenders in the Credit Facility. While we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to operate until the mandatory redemption of the PIERS in August 2009, a significant decrease in revenues and cash flows due to the impact of our financial condition and the overall economy could result in us having an unanticipated cash shortfall, which could compel us to file under Chapter 11 before we have completed our efforts to obtain an out-of-court restructuring or a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan under Chapter 11. Such a circumstance would likely cause a free fall Chapter 11 proceeding, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. See the above risk factor regarding the potential impact of a long and protracted Chapter 11 proceeding. CHANGES IN OUR CREDIT RATINGS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO REFINANCE OUR REMAINING DEBT. Credit rating agencies continually review their ratings for the companies they follow, including us. In September 2008, Moody's Investors Service downgraded (i) our corporate family rating to "Caa2" from "Caa1," (ii) our probability of default to "Caa2" from "Caa1" and (iii) the debt rating of the Credit Facility to "B2" from "B1." In June 2008, Standard & Poor's Ratings Service reassigned our (i) corporate credit rating to "CCC+" and (ii) the debt rating of the Credit Facility to "B." Both rating agencies have placed our ratings on "negative outlook." A further negative change in our ratings or the 22 Table of Contents perception that such a change could occur, which would be likely if we were to enter into a Chapter 11 proceeding, may further adversely affect the market price of our securities, including our common stock and public debt. VARIOUS FACTORS—LOCAL CONDITIONS, EVENTS, NATURAL DISASTERS, DISTURBANCES AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES—CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT PARK ATTENDANCE. Lower attendance at our parks may be caused by various local conditions, events, weather or natural disasters. In addition, since some of our parks are near major urban areas and appeal to teenagers and young adults, there may be disturbances at one or more parks which negatively affect our image. This may result in a decrease in attendance at the affected parks. We work with local police authorities on security-related precautions to prevent these types of occurrences. We can make no assurance, however, that these precautions will be able to prevent any disturbances. We believe that our ownership of many parks in different geographic locations reduces the effects of these types of occurrences on our consolidated results. Our business and financial results were adversely impacted by the terrorist activities occurring in the United States on September 11, 2001. Terrorist alerts and threats of future terrorist activities may adversely affect attendance at our parks. We cannot predict what effect any further terrorist activities that may occur in the future may have on our business and results of operations. RISK OF ACCIDENTS—THERE IS A RISK OF ACCIDENTS OCCURRING AT OUR PARKS OR COMPETING PARKS WHICH MAY REDUCE ATTENDANCE AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. Almost all of our parks feature "thrill rides." While we carefully maintain the safety of our rides, there are inherent risks involved with these attractions. An accident or an injury (including water-borne illnesses on water rides) at any of our parks or at parks operated by our competitors, particularly accidents or injuries that attract media attention, may reduce attendance at our parks, causing a decrease in revenues. We maintain insurance of the type and in amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable and that are available to businesses in our industry. We maintain multi-layered general liability policies that provide for excess liability coverage of up to $100.0 million per occurrence. For incidents occurring at our domestic parks after November 15, 2003, our self-insured retention is $2.5 million per occurrence. For incidents at those parks during the twelve months prior to that date, the retention is $2.0 million per occurrence. For incidents during the twelve months ended November 15, 2002, the retention is $1.0 million per occurrence. For most prior incidents, our policies did not provide for a self-insured retention. The self-insured retention relating to our international parks is nominal with respect to all applicable periods. Our general liability policies cover the cost of punitive damages only in certain jurisdictions in which a claim occurs. Our current insurance policies expire on December 31, 2009. We cannot predict the level of the premiums that we may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any self-insurance retention applicable thereto, the level of aggregate coverage available or the availability of coverage for specific risks. ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS—BAD WEATHER CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT ATTENDANCE AT OUR PARKS. Because most of the attractions at our theme parks are outdoors, attendance at our parks is adversely affected by bad weather and forecasts of bad weather. The effects of bad weather on attendance can be more pronounced at our water parks. Bad weather and forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions can reduce the number of people who come to our parks, which negatively affects our revenues. Although we believe that our ownership of many parks in different geographic locations 23 Table of Contents reduces the effect that adverse weather can have on our consolidated results, we believe that our operating results in certain years were adversely affected by abnormally hot, cold and/or wet weather in a number of our major U.S. markets. In addition, since a number of our parks are geographically concentrated in the eastern portion of the United States, a weather pattern that affects that area could adversely affect a number of our parks. Also, bad weather and forecasts of bad weather on weekend days have greater negative impact than on weekdays because weekend days are typically peak days for attendance at our parks. SEASONALITY—OUR OPERATIONS ARE SEASONAL. Our operations are seasonal. Approximately 83% of our annual park attendance and revenue occurs during the second and third calendar quarters of each year. As a result, when conditions or events described in the above risk factors occur during the operating season, particularly during the peak season of July and August, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be mitigated. Accordingly, such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, most of our expenses for maintenance and costs of adding new attractions are incurred when the parks are closed in the mid to late autumn and winter months. For this reason, a sequential quarter to quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, we are largely dependent upon our revolving facilities totaling $275.0 million to fund off-season expenses. Our ability to borrow under the revolving facilities is dependent upon compliance with certain conditions, including a senior secured leverage ratio and the absence of any material adverse change in our business or financial condition. If we were to become unable to borrow under the revolving facilities, we would likely be unable to pay in full our off-season obligations and may be unable to meet our repurchase obligations (if any) with respect to repurchases of partnership units in the Partnership Parks. The working capital revolving credit facility expires in March 2013. In October 2008, we borrowed $244.2 million under the revolving facility portion of the Credit Facility to ensure the availability of liquidity to fund our off-season expenditures given difficulties in the global credit markets. At December 31, 2008, we had $210.3 million in unrestricted cash and $1.5 million available (after reduction for outstanding letters of credit of approximately $29.4 million) on our $275 million revolving credit facility. COMPETITION—THE THEME PARK INDUSTRY COMPETES WITH NUMEROUS ENTERTAINMENT ALTERNATIVES. Our parks compete with other theme, water and amusement parks and with other types of recreational facilities and forms of entertainment, including movies, sports attractions and vacation travel. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation and leisure time industries generally, such as general economic conditions, including relative fuel prices, and changes in consumer spending habits. The principal competitive factors of a park include location, price, the uniqueness and perceived quality of the rides and attractions, the atmosphere and cleanliness of the park and the quality of its food and entertainment. CUSTOMER PRIVACY—IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR CUSTOMERS' CREDIT CARD DATA, WE COULD BE EXPOSED TO DATA LOSS, LITIGATION AND LIABILITY, AND OUR REPUTATION COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY HARMED. In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information securely over public networks and store it in our data warehouse. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our 24 Table of Contents operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. LABOR COSTS—INCREASED COSTS OF LABOR, PENSION, POST-RETIREMENT AND MEDICAL AND OTHER EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS MAY REDUCE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and employees. Increased labor costs, due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefit costs or otherwise, would adversely impact our operating expenses. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees to keep pace with our needs. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations may be adversely affected. With more than 2,000 full-time employees, our results of operations are also substantially affected by costs of retirement and medical benefits. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. At least some of these macro-economic factors may continue to put pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs (including our decision in February 2006 to "freeze" our pension plan, effective March 31, 2006, and certain revisions to our employee health and welfare benefits), there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure, including as a result of any new legislation, could reduce the profitability of our businesses. HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE—ACCESS TO CASH FLOW OF MOST OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES IS LIMITED. We are a holding company whose primary assets consist of shares of stock or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, and we conduct substantially all of our current operations through our subsidiaries. Almost all of our income is derived from our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we are dependent on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. We had $210.3 million of cash and cash equivalents on a consolidated basis at December 31, 2008, of which $4.4 million was held at the holding company level. Other than our holdings in the Partnership Parks, all of our current operations are conducted by subsidiaries of Six Flags Operations, Inc., our principal direct wholly-owned subsidiary. We may, in the future, transfer other assets to Six Flags Operations, Inc. or other entities owned by us. The Credit Facility and the indenture governing Six Flags Operations, Inc.'s senior notes due 2016 limit the ability of Six Flags Operations, Inc. to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Six Flags Operations, Inc. may not make cash distributions to us unless it is in compliance with the covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement and the indenture governing its senior notes due 2016 and it is not otherwise in default thereunder. If it is in compliance, Six Flags Operations, Inc. is permitted to make dividends to us in certain circumstances from cash generated by certain asset dispositions and the incurrence of certain indebtedness in order to enable us to pay amounts in respect of any refinancing or repayment of debt under the indentures governing our outstanding notes and, in certain circumstances, the PIERS. Similarly, if it is in compliance, Six Flags Operations, Inc. may make additional cash distributions to us generally limited to an amount equal to the sum of: •cash interest payments on the public debt issued by Holdings; 25 Table of Contents •payments we are required to make under our agreements with our partners in the Partnership Parks; and •cash dividends on our preferred stock. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE—THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY DECLINE DUE TO POSSIBLE SALES OF SHARES AND THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK IN ANY RESTRUCTURING OR CHAPTER 11 FILING. As of March 1, 2009, there were approximately 97.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding, all of which are transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except for any shares held by our affiliates. At that date, we also had outstanding options held by management and directors to purchase approximately 6.7 million shares and under our current option plans we may issue options to purchase an additional 3.7 million shares. In addition, the PIERS are convertible at the option of the holders into 13.8 million shares of common stock, and our convertible notes are convertible into 44.1 million shares, although we can elect to deliver cash to satisfy note conversions. Due to the market value of our common stock at December 31, 2008, we do not anticipate conversions of the PIERS or convertible notes under their existing terms. In addition, we expect that we will be required to issue a significant amount of additional common stock in any restructuring or Chapter 11 proceeding we pursue which would likely have a significantly dilutive impact on, or result in the elimination of, our existing shares of common stock. The sale or issuance or expectation of sales or issuances of a large number of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the public market might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could also be adversely affected by our decision to make a Chapter 11 filing or the expectation of a filing, due to the potential negative impacts of a filing as well as the potential dilutive impact on, or elimination of, existing shares of common stock. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS—ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR CORPORATE DOCUMENTS AND THE LAW OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE AS WELL AS CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS IN CERTAIN OF OUR DEBT AND OTHER AGREEMENTS COULD DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL, EVEN IF THAT CHANGE WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO STOCKHOLDERS OR HAVE A MATERIALLY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. Certain provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and in our debt instruments and those of our subsidiaries may have the effect of deterring transactions involving a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides for the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. The authorization of preferred shares empowers our board of directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. If issued, the preferred stock could also dilute the holders of our common stock and could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. So long as our common stock is listed on a national securities exchange or held of record by more than 2,000 holders, we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in some circumstances. Furthermore, upon a change of control, the holders of substantially all of our outstanding indebtedness are entitled at their option to be repaid in cash. These provisions may have 26 Table of Contents the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. All of these factors could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. On December 2, 2008, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of our common stock. The distribution was paid on December 17, 2008 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 17, 2008. Each Right, if and when it becomes exercisable, entitles the holder to buy 1/1000 of a share of preferred stock at a price of $1.25 per 1/1000 of a share subject to adjustment (the "Exercise Price"). If any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock at any time after the date of the plan (with certain limited exceptions), then each Right not owned by such person or group will entitle its holder to purchase, at the Exercise Price, shares of our common stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock of the acquiring person, having a market value of twice the Exercise Price. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a rights agreement between us and The Bank of New York Mellon, as rights agent. In addition, our Credit Agreement, the indentures governing our senior debt and the certificate of designation for the PIERS contain provisions pursuant to which it would be an event of default under our Credit Agreement and we would be required to offer to repurchase the debt and the PIERS if any "person" becomes the beneficial owner of more than 35% of our common stock. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us and if any "person" were to become the beneficial owner of more than 35% of our common stock, we would not be able to repay or repurchase such indebtedness and PIERS. We have the exclusive right to use certain Warner Bros. and DC Comics characters in our theme parks in the United States (except in the Las Vegas metropolitan area), Canada, Mexico and other countries. Warner Bros. can terminate these licenses under certain circumstances, including the acquisition of us by persons engaged in the movie or television industries. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us. OUR SHARES MAY BE DE-LISTED FROM THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE. On October 6, 2008, we were notified by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") that the we are not in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing criteria under Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual because the average closing price of our common stock has been less than $1.00 for thirty consecutive trading days. On October 27, 2008, we were notified by the NYSE that we are not in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing criteria under Section 802.01B of the NYSE Listed Company Manual because our average market capitalization has been less than $75 million for thirty consecutive trading days and, at the same time, our stockholders' equity had been less than $75 million. We are required to remedy each of these matters in a timely manner as set forth in the applicable NYSE rules in order to maintain our listing on the NYSE, and, if we are unable to do so, we may be delisted by the NYSE. We have a six-month compliance period from the date of notification of our noncompliance to bring our share price and average share price back above $1.00. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE suspended the $1.00 average closing price requirement until June 30, 2009. If we have not regained compliance with the average closing price requirement by June 30, 2009, the six-month compliance period will recommence and we will have the remaining balance of such period within which time we must regain compliance in order to remain listed. On December 9, 2008, we submitted a plan to the NYSE to address our compliance with the NYSE's minimum market capitalization and stockholders' equity listing criteria. On January 22, 2009, the NYSE accepted our plan, however, the NYSE may delist our common stock in the future if we do not satisfy the NYSE's minimum listing criteria, including maintaining a minimum market capitalization of $15,000,000 through June 30, 2009, and $25,000,000 thereafter. 27 Table of Contents If delisting occurs, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and the price of our common stock could decline. Delisting could also affect our ability to raise capital. If we were delisted from the NYSE, we could seek to move trading of our common stock to the OTC Bulletin Board. This method of trading could significantly impair our ability to raise new capital. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE CANCELLATION OF INDEBTEDNESS INCOME AND OUR ABILITY TO UTILIZE OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS MAY BE LIMITED IF WE SUCCESSFULLY CONSUMMATE A DEBT RESTRUCTURING. We will have cancellation of indebtedness ("COD") income if we consummate a debt restructuring and the value of the common stock issued in exchange for our notes is less than the adjusted issue price of the notes. However, this COD income will be excluded from taxable income if the debt restructuring occurs pursuant to a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization or, if not, to the extent we are insolvent as determined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, immediately before an out-of-court restructuring. If the COD income is excluded from our taxable income, we will be required to reduce our favorable tax attributes, including our net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs"), by the amount of COD income that is excluded. To the extent we are made solvent by a debt restructuring in an out-of-court solution, the COD income would be taxable income, which may be offset with our NOLs for regular tax purposes. However, for alternative minimum tax ("AMT") purposes, only 90% of our taxable income may be offset with NOLs. Therefore, 10% of our AMT income, including any taxable COD income, cannot be offset with NOLs and will be subject to AMT. Federal legislation was recently enacted that allows an eligible taxpayer to elect to defer COD income arising from an exchange of stock for debt that occurs in 2009 or 2010. If this election is made, the taxpayer can defer tax on the COD income for five taxable years (in the case of COD income arising in 2009) or four taxable years (in the case of COD income arising in 2010), and then recognize 20% of the COD income in each of the next five taxable years beginning with 2014. If this election is made, the COD income exclusions for a Chapter 11 filing and insolvency would not apply. Further, our ability to utilize our NOLs may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we consummate a debt restructuring that results in an ownership change. In such case, an annual limitation will be imposed on the amount of our pre-ownership change NOLs that may be utilized to offset future taxable income. This annual limitation generally will be equal to the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (or, if the ownership change occurs pursuant to a Chapter 11 reorganization and an election is made, the value of our stock immediately after the ownership change), in either case, subject to certain reductions, multiplied by the "long-term tax-exempt rate" for the month in which the ownership change occurs. This rate (currently, approximately 5.5%) is published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. Any portion of the annual limitation that is not used in a particular year may be carried forward and used in subsequent years. The annual limitation is increased by certain built-in income and gains recognized (or treated as recognized) during the five years following an ownership change (up to the total amount of built-in income and gain that existed at the time of the ownership change). Built-in income for this purpose includes the amount by which our tax depreciation expense during this five year period is less than it would be if our assets had a tax basis on the date of the ownership change equal to their fair market value. Because most of our assets are theme park assets, which are depreciated on an accelerated basis over a seven-year recovery period, we expect any NOL limitation to be substantially increased by built-in income for the five years following an ownership change and to result in a carryforward of excess limitation to future periods. Nevertheless, because the value of our outstanding common stock is currently low, any annual limitation resulting from an ownership change will likely be correspondingly low. Even after being increased by built-in income, we expect the cumulative NOL limitation to be 28 Table of Contents substantially less than the current amount of our NOLs. As a result, a significant amount of our NOLs are expected to expire unused as a result of an ownership change. Alternatively, if an ownership change occurs pursuant to a Chapter 11 proceeding and certain requirements are satisfied, no limitation would be imposed on the use of our NOLs following the ownership change. Instead, however, our NOLs would be reduced by interest deducted during the applicable look-back period on notes that are converted into stock in the restructuring. SIX FLAGS HAS NOT PAID CASH DIVIDENDS ON ITS COMMON STOCK AND DOES NOT CURRENTLY ANTICIPATE DOING SO IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Six Flags has not paid cash dividends to date on its common stock and does not currently anticipate paying any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The terms of the Credit Facility and our senior debt restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock and repurchase shares of our common stock. A RESTRUCTURING COULD HAVE OTHER ACCOUNTING IMPLICATIONS. If we restructure our debt and other obligations in an out-of-court transaction, it could result in book carrying amount of our stockholders' equity exceeding our fair market value of equity. Currently, we have a deficit balance in stockholders' equity, therefore book equity does not exceed the fair market value of equity. Because we have one reporting unit for purposes of assessing impairment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," if the book carrying amount of stockholders' equity were to exceed fair market value of equity after an out-of-court restructuring, an impairment could be indicated for the single reporting unit and we would be required to determine the implied fair value of our goodwill and compare that value to the goodwill carrying amount. If the carrying amount was greater than the implied fair value, a goodwill impairment charge would be recorded for the difference. If we restructure under Chapter 11, the financial statements would be subject to the accounting prescribed by Statement of Position No. 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code." If our existing stockholders end up with less than 50% of our voting shares after we emerge from a Chapter 11 proceeding, we would apply "Fresh-Start Reporting," in which our assets and liabilities would be recorded at their estimated fair value using the principles of purchase accounting contained in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R, "Business Combinations," with the difference between our estimated fair value and our identifiable assets and liabilities being recognized as goodwill. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2008 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 