ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. 11 If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Factors That May Affect Our Business The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any one or a combination of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, along with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A continuation or worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · We may be required to pay significantly higher premiums to the FDIC because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Recent market disruptions and related governmental actions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Our business is affected by global economic conditions, political uncertainties and volatility and other developments in the financial markets. Factors such as interest rates and commodity prices, regional and national rates of economic growth, liquidity and volatility of fixed income, credit and other financial markets and investors’ confidence can significantly affect the businesses in which we and our customers are engaged. Such factors have affected, and may further unfavorably affect, both economic growth and stability in markets where we and our customers operate, creating adverse effects on many companies, including us, in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. Since mid-2007 credit and other financial markets have suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached unprecedented levels in September and October of 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to several major domestic and international financial institutions. These events have continued in 2009 and have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial markets and in financial institutions, generally. This reduced confidence could further exacerbate the overall market disruption and increase risks to market participants including the Company. 12 The recent market developments and the potential for increased and continuing disruptions present a material risk to our business and that of other financial institutions. Further deterioration or a continuation of recent market conditions may lead to a decline in the value of the assets that we hold or in the creditworthiness of our borrowers. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker dealers, implementation of programs by the Fed to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and other matters. The overall effects of legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. While these measures have been implemented to support and stabilize the markets, these actions may have unintended consequences on the financial system or our business, including reducing competition or increasing the general level of uncertainty in the markets. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Continued economic slowdowns in Hawaii or California could materially hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. The current deterioration in economic conditions in the United States generally, and in Hawaii and California in particular, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially hurt our business: · Loan delinquencies may continue to increase; · Problem assets and foreclosures may continue to increase leading to more loan charge-offs; · Demand for our products and services may decline; · Low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may continue to decrease; and · Collateral for loans made by us, especially involving real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and continued deterioration in the real estate market may result in additional losses and adversely affect our profitability. As we have experienced with the deteriorating market conditions in California’s real estate market, our results of operations in future periods may be significantly impacted by the economies in Hawaii, California and other markets we serve. Approximately 85% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008 was comprised of loans primarily collateralized by real estate, 73% of these loans were concentrated in Hawaii, 23% in California and 4% in Washington. Deterioration of the economic environment in Hawaii, California or other markets we serve, including a continued decline in the real estate market, further declines in single-family home resales or a material external shock, may significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, we expect that our profitability would be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market. A large percentage of our real estate loans are construction loans which involve the additional risk that a project may not be completed, increasing the risk of loss. Approximately 33% of our real estate loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008 was comprised of construction loans. Fifty-nine percent of these construction loans were in Hawaii, 34% in California and the remaining 7% in Washington. Repayment of construction loans is dependent upon the successful completion of the construction project, on time and within budget, and the successful sale of the completed project. If a borrower is unable to complete a construction project or if the marketability of the completed development is impaired, proceeds from the sale of the subject property may be insufficient to repay the loan. The continued decline in the California real estate market or a deterioration of the real estate market in any market we serve is likely to damage the marketability of these projects; as a result, we may incur loan losses which will adversely affect our profitability. We have had to increase our provision for loan and lease losses substantially in 2008 and may have to do so again in the future. 13 Our ability to maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity and required capital levels may be negatively impacted by the current economic environment which may, among other things, impact our ability to pay dividends. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investments or loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative affect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans or deposits are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. The management of liquidity risk is critical to the management of our business and to our ability to service our customer base. In managing our balance sheet, our primary source of funding is customer deposits. Our ability to continue to attract these deposits and other funding sources is subject to variability based upon a number of factors including volume and volatility in the securities markets, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. The availability and level of deposits and other funding sources is highly dependent upon the perception of the liquidity and creditworthiness of the financial institution, which perception can change quickly in response to market conditions or circumstances unique to a particular company. Concerns about our financial condition, or concerns about our credit exposure to other persons could adversely impact our sources of liquidity, financial position, including regulatory capital ratios, results of operations and our business prospects. During 2008, the amount of our total deposits has fluctuated. If the level of deposits were to materially decrease, we would have to raise additional funds by increasing the interest that we pay on certificates of deposits or other depository accounts, seek other debt or equity financing or draw upon our available lines of credit. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, and to a lesser extent, brokered deposits, advances from the FHLB-Seattle and the Fed discount window, to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB-Seattle or market conditions were to change. We constantly monitor our activities with respect to liquidity and evaluate closely our utilization of our cash assets; however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or the cost of funds to us may not be materially and adversely impacted as a result of economic, market or operational considerations that we may not be able to control. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the TARP’s CPP, for so long as any Preferred Shares issued under the CPP remains outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing quarterly cash dividends on our common stock above $0.10 per share, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Preferred Shares it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the Preferred Shares issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such Preferred Shares, subject to certain limited exceptions. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. The Preferred Shares issued to the U.S. Treasury impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the TARP Warrant may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on the Preferred Shares issued to the U.S. Treasury will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the TARP Warrant is exercised. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the TARP Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the TARP Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the TARP Warrant is not bound by this restriction. 14 If we are unable to redeem the Preferred Shares within five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% (approximately $6.8 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $12.2 million annually), further reducing the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Because of our participation in the TARP’s CPP, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP CPP, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds an investment in us. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $0.5 million for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us and our earnings may be negatively affected. In light of our current volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, our interest rate margin could be expected to increase during periods of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during periods of falling interest rates. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors including the following: · Inflation; · Recession; · Changes in unemployment; · The money supply; · International disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; and · Governmental actions. Our asset/liability management strategy may not be able to control our risk from changes in market interest rates and it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may reposition our investment portfolio to reduce our net interest income volatility. See “Asset/Liability Management and Interest Rate Risk” included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our sensitivity to interest rate changes. 15 Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral or guarantees securing these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. During 2008, our provision for loan and lease losses amounted to $171.7 million, compared to $53.0 million in 2007 and $1.4 million in 2006 and our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may experience significant loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are regularly reevaluated and are based in part on: · Current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; · An evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance for loan and lease losses; · Results of examinations of our loan portfolios by regulatory agencies; and · Management’s internal review of the loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient. With the volatility of the economic decline and unprecedented nature of the events in the credit and real estate markets during the latter part of 2008, we made significant adjustments to our allowance in 2008 and additional adjustments may continue to be necessary if the local or national real estate markets and economies continue to deteriorate. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal regulators periodically evaluate the adequacy of our allowance and may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any further increase in our allowance or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During the second quarter of 2008, we wrote off all of the remaining goodwill associated with our Commercial Real Estate reporting segment as it was considered to be impaired. We continue to evaluate goodwill assigned to our Hawaii Market reporting segment for impairment. Estimates of fair value of our Hawaii Market reporting segment are determined based on a complex model using cash flows and company comparisons. If management’s estimates of future cash flows are inaccurate, the fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment may not be recognized in a timely manner. Furthermore, market conditions affecting our Hawaii Market reporting segment may deteriorate which could result in a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Hawaii Market reporting segment. If this were to occur, the goodwill assigned to our Hawaii Market reporting segment may be considered to be impaired. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks conduct significant business in the market areas in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; 16 · The ability to expand our market position; · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to its competitors; · Customer satisfaction with our level of service; and · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to deposits at our bank or seek higher yielding deposits causing us to incur increased funding costs. We are facing increasing deposit-pricing pressures. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments as providing superior expected returns or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. Governmental regulation may impair our operations or restrict our growth. We are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years, Congress and the President have passed and enacted significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the FRB. If we fail to comply with federal and state bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: · The capital that must be maintained; · The kinds of activities that can be engaged in; · The kinds and amounts of investments that can be made; · The locations of offices; · Insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance; and · How much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. 17 The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The market for certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio has become much less liquid over the past year. This coupled with uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral has caused discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. We value some of our investments using cash flow and valuation models which include certain subjective estimates that we believe are reflective of the estimates a purchaser of such securities would use if such a transaction were to occur. The volatile market may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairment of these assets that may result in accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on consolidated financial statements and capital ratios. If Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired or as Permanently Impaired, Our Earnings and Shareholders’ Equity Could Decrease We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB-Seattle”) to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB-Seattle’s advance program. The aggregate cost of our FHLB-Seattle common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $48.8 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLB-Seattle common stock. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB-Seattle, could be substantially diminished. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB-Seattle common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it would cause our earnings and shareholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. We may be unsuccessful in our federal or Hawaii state tax appeals, or ongoing tax audits may result in additional tax liabilities. We are currently appealing certain tax assessments by the Internal Revenue Service and the State of Hawaii Department of Taxation. While we believe that we have properly applied the relevant income tax statutes and have obtained supporting opinions from tax consultants, we may be unsuccessful in one or more of our appeals. While we have established contingency reserves as deemed appropriate, adverse decisions or settlements could result in income tax and related interest exposure in excess of amounts reserved. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Because we are a holding company with no significant operations other than our bank, we currently depend upon dividends from our bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from our bank. The ability of the bank to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is subject to the regulatory authority of the FDIC, the DFI, Hawaii law and the Federal Reserve Board as further described in the Supervision and Regulation – Dividends sections of Item 1. Business. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the banking industry in each of our markets. Furthermore, recent demand for skilled finance and accounting personnel among publicly traded companies has increased the importance of attracting and retaining these people. Competition for the best people can be intense given the tight labor market in Hawaii and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 18 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Regardless of whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Certifications We have filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Last year, we submitted to the New York Stock Exchange on June 3, 2008 our annual CEO certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards required by NYSE rule 303A.12. This year, we intend to submit to the NYSE our annual CEO certification within 30 days of the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders, which is scheduled for May 26, 2009. 19 ITEM 