Item 1A. Risk Factors Below are a series of risk factors that may affect our results of operations or financial performance. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. Risk Factors Relating to the Company and Industry Related Risks Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of historically high fuel costs, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel or significant further increases in fuel costs could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of aircraft fuel. Although fuel prices recently have decreased from historically high levels, fuel prices have increased substantially over the past several years. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry and market forces, we can offer no assurance that we may be able to increase our fares or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset fuel prices. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, we cannot predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. In addition, from time to time we enter into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. Our ability to hedge in the future, however, may be limited. See also the discussion in Part II, Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our high level of fixed obligations limits our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limits our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, aircraft leases and financings, aircraft purchase commitments, leases of airport and other facilities and other cash obligations. We also have guaranteed costs associated with our regional alliances and commitments to purchase aircraft. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these obligations: • A decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase. • We may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. Our obligations also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our existing indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets. Moreover, the terms of our secured GE loan require us to maintain unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of not less than $750 million (subject to partial reduction upon reduction in the principal amount outstanding) over the term of the loan, require us to meet financial ratios and restrict our ability to take certain other actions, including mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. Our affinity credit card partner agreement with Juniper Bank, a subsidiary of Barclays PLC, requires us to maintain an average quarterly balance of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of at least $1 billion for the entirety of the agreement. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations depends on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic and political conditions. A failure to pay our fixed costs or a breach of the contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by the credit card servicers and the exercise of remedies by our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our contractual obligations, repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act (the “RLA”). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement, or the parties have been released to “self-help” by the National Mediation Board. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes, after release by the National Mediation Board carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. None of the US Airways labor agreements becomes amendable until December 31, 2009. Of the AWA labor agreements, four are currently amendable. There is also a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other action short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and impair its financial performance. This risk is heightened during our current negotiations for post-merger integrated labor agreements. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of these systems, or the failure to integrate them successfully following the merger, could harm our business. To operate our business, we depend on automated systems, including our computerized airline reservation systems, our flight operations systems, our telecommunication systems and our websites. Our website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information on a timely and reliable basis. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services and could cause our customers to purchase tickets from another airline. Integration of automated airline systems is difficult, and we have encountered complications and difficulties in integrating some of our automated systems and have not completed those integration efforts, including efforts to combine our two computerized airline reservations systems. Any disruption in these systems could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and generally harm our business, and any sustained disruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. We might not be able to fully realize the synergies generated by the merger. In deciding to enter into the merger agreement, US Airways Group and America West Holdings considered the long-term benefits of operating as a combined company, including, among others, an enhanced ability to compete in the airline industry and the fact that the proprietary brands of the combined company would permit US Airways Group to further differentiate itself from other airline companies. The success of the merger depends, in part, on our ability to continue to realize the anticipated revenue opportunities and cost savings from combining the businesses of US Airways Group and America West Holdings. We must continue to combine the businesses of US Airways Group and America West Holdings in a manner that permits those costs savings and other synergies to be realized in a timely fashion. In addition, we must achieve these savings without adversely affecting revenues or suffering a business interruption. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated long-term benefits of the merger may not be realized fully. 18 Table of Contents The integration of US Airways Group and America West Holdings following the merger continues to present significant challenges. US Airways Group and America West Holdings face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating their organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration of US Airways Group and America West Holdings has been and will continue to be costly, complex and time consuming, and management will continue to devote substantial effort to that integration and may have its attention diverted from ongoing operational matters or other strategic opportunities. The inability to maintain labor costs at competitive levels could harm our financial performance. Our business plan includes assumptions about labor costs going forward. Currently, the labor costs of both AWA and US Airways are very competitive and very similar; however, we cannot assure you that labor costs going forward will remain competitive, because our agreements may become amendable, because competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs or because we may agree to higher-cost provisions in our current labor negotiations. Approximately 81% of the employees within US Airways Group are represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. In the United States, these employees are organized into nine labor groups represented by five different unions at US Airways, ten labor groups represented by five different unions at AWA, four labor groups represented by four different unions at Piedmont, and four labor groups represented by four different unions at PSA. In January 2007, two unions filed applications with the National Mediation Board to represent two additional labor groups at PSA, the dispatchers and the stock clerks. There are additional unionized groups of US Airways employees abroad. Some of our unions have brought grievance arbitrations in the context of the labor integration process. Unions may bring additional court actions or grievance arbitrations and may seek to compel us to engage in the bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. If successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues in the context of the merger could create additional costs that we did not anticipate. Our future growth is dependent on obtaining adequate operating facilities at airports throughout our network. In order to add new service and grow our presence in key airports and markets, or start service to new destinations, we must be able to obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable) and office space. For example, at our largest hub airport, we are seeking to increase international service despite challenging airport space constraints. Also, as airports around the world become more congested, we cannot always be sure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner given operating constraints at airports throughout our network. The travel industry continues to face ongoing security concerns. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and continuing terrorist threats materially impacted and continue to impact air travel. The Aviation Security Act mandates improved flight deck security; deployment of federal air marshals on board flights; improved airport perimeter access security; airline crew security training; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel; additional provision of passenger data to U.S. Customs and enhanced background checks. These increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks have increased costs to airlines. A concurrent increase in airport security charges and procedures, such as restrictions on carry-on baggage, has also had a disproportionate impact on short-haul travel, which constitutes a significant portion of US Airways’ flying and revenue. We would also be materially impacted in the event of further terrorist attacks or perceived terrorist threats. Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of anticipated fleet capacity may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The success of our business depends on, among other things, the ability to operate a certain number and type of aircraft. In many cases, the aircraft we intend to operate are not yet in our fleet, but we have contractual 19 Table of Contents commitments to purchase or lease them. If for any reason we were unable to secure deliveries of new aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates, this could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Our failure to integrate newly purchased aircraft into our fleet as planned might require us to seek extensions of the terms for some leased aircraft. Such unanticipated extensions may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point of which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs. Additionally, there has been a recent increase in aircraft lease rates. If new aircraft orders are not filled on a timely basis, we could face higher monthly rental rates. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. A substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates. These are primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars, or LIBOR. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. See also the discussion of interest rate risk in Part II, Item 7A. If we incur problems with any of our third party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including Express operations, aircraft maintenance, ground facilities, reservations and baggage handling. Similar agreements may be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. These agreements are generally subject to termination after notice by the third party service provider. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. In addition, we have obtained third party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. The program has been extended, with the same conditions and premiums, until August 31, 2007. Under Vision 100, the President may continue the insurance program until March 30, 2008. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. Because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Changes in government regulation could increase our operating costs and limit our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the Department of Transportation, the FAA, the Transportation Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security have issued a number of directives and other regulations. These requirements impose substantial costs on airlines. The FAA has proposed a far-reaching set of rules governing flight operations at New York LaGuardia Airport after January 1, 2007. The new rules could result in dramatic changes to the type and number of services that we offer in the future at LaGuardia. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed or discussed from time to time, including recent discussions about a “passenger bill of rights,” and if adopted these could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. The 20 Table of Contents ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be available. We cannot assure that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our operating costs. Ongoing data security compliance requirements could increase our costs and any significant data breach could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of customer and other sensitive information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit existing vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store database information. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security, including requiring varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach. Many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed certain data security standards that we must meet. Failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security requirements of our partners or related laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business. In addition, failure to address appropriately these issues could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses. The airline industry is intensely competitive. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, some of which have more financial resources or lower cost structures than ours, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In many of our markets we compete with at least one other low-cost air carrier. Our revenues are sensitive to numerous factors, and the actions of other carriers in the areas of pricing, scheduling and promotions can have a substantial adverse impact on overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. In addition, because a significant portion of US Airways’ traffic is short-haul travel, US Airways is more susceptible than other major airlines to competition from surface transportation such as automobiles and trains. Low cost carriers (including AWA and the new US Airways) have had a profound impact on industry revenues. Using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares, particularly those targeted at business passengers, in order to shift demand from larger, more-established airlines. Some low cost carriers, which have cost structures lower than ours, have better financial performance and significant numbers of aircraft on order for delivery in the next few years. These low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through growth and could continue to have an impact on the overall performance of US Airways Group. There is ongoing speculation that some type of airline industry consolidation could occur in the near-term. While US Airways Group intends to aggressively protect its corporate interests, we cannot assure that through consolidation or otherwise, combinations of other carriers would not negatively impact our business model, or that we would or would not be a participant in any industry consolidation scenario. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect the results of our operations or our financial performance. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We operate principally through primary hubs in Charlotte, Philadelphia and Phoenix and secondary hubs/focus cities in Pittsburgh, Las Vegas, New York, Washington, D.C. and Boston. A majority of our flights either originate in or fly into one of these locations. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and adversely impact our financial condition and operations. Our business is subject to weather factors and seasonal variations in airline travel, which cause our results to fluctuate. Our operations are vulnerable to severe weather conditions in parts of our network that could disrupt service, create air traffic control problems, decrease revenue, and increase costs, such as during hurricane season in the Caribbean and Southeast United States, snow and severe winters in the Northeast United States and thunderstorms in the Eastern United States. In addition, the air travel business historically fluctuates on a seasonal basis. Due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. The results of operations of the combined company will likely reflect weather factors and seasonality, and therefore quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year, and the prior results of America West Holdings and US Airways Group are not necessarily indicative of our future results. The use of America West Holdings’ and US Airways Group’s respective pre-merger NOLs and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. As discussed below in Risks Related to Our Common stock — “ A small number of stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock,” a significant portion of US Airways Group’s common stock is beneficially owned by a small number of equity investors. Some of these shareholders have sold portions of their holdings since the merger. In the event these shareholders sell a substantial portion of their shares in US Airways Group, each of US Airways Group and America West Holdings could be subject to an “ownership change,” as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 382. An ownership change generally occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership percentage in a corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points in the shorter of any three-year period or the period since the last ownership change. When a company undergoes such an ownership change, Section 382 limits the Company’s future ability to utilize any net operating losses, or NOLs, generated before the ownership change and certain subsequently recognized “built-in” losses and deductions, if any, existing as of the date of the ownership change. A company’s ability to utilize new NOLs arising after the ownership change is not affected. Employee benefit plans represent significant continuing costs to the sponsoring employers. US Airways Group and its subsidiaries sponsor employee benefit plans and arrangements that provide retirement, medical, disability and other benefits to our employees and participating retirees. Many of the benefits provided under these plans are mandated under various collective bargaining agreements, while others are provided on a voluntary basis as a means to recruit and retain valuable employees. Benefit plans in general are increasingly the subject of protracted litigation, especially following significant plan changes. Certain of the plans sponsored by the subsidiaries of US Airways Group underwent significant changes in connection with the recent bankruptcy 22 Table of Contents reorganizations, including the termination of four defined benefit pension plans pursuant to agreements with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”). While the PBGC retains the authority to restore some or all of the terminated plans, we believe that its ability to do so is limited given our emergence from bankruptcy and discharge from prior debts. US Airways Group could experience significant operating losses in the future. Although US Airways Group reported an operating profit in 2006, there is no guarantee of future profitability. There are several reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, why US Airways Group might fail to achieve profitability and might in fact experience significant losses. For example, the condition of the national economy has an impact on our revenue performance. Since early 2001, the U.S. airline industry’s revenue performance has fallen short of what would have been expected based on historical growth trends. This shortfall has been caused by a number of factors discussed in these risk factors. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on September 27, 2005 upon the effectiveness of our merger. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • movements in fuel prices; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • general market conditions. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of the US Airways Group’s 7% senior convertible notes due 2020 will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. A small number of stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. A significant portion of US Airways Group’s common stock is beneficially owned by a relatively small number of equity investors. As a result, until these stockholders sell a substantial portion of their shares, they will have a greater percentage vote in matters that may be presented for a vote to stockholders than most other stockholders. This may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence votes on matters that may come before stockholders of US Airways Group. In addition, sales of these shares into the market could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. 23 Table of Contents Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of US Airways Group and its stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the ability of US Airways Group’s board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; • a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; • a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders; • a requirement that holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors approve amendment of the amended and restated bylaws; and • super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of US Airways Group’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of US Airways Group’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, US Airways Group is subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders, such as our new equity investors, whose acquisition of US Airways Group’s securities is approved by the board of directors prior to the investment under Section 203. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting and ownership by foreign owners. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of shares held by such persons would exceed 24.9% of the voting stock of our company. In addition, any attempt to transfer equity securities to a non-U.S. citizen in excess of 49.9% of our outstanding equity securities will be void and of no effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 