ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the principal risks that we believe are material to our business and should be considered by our security holders. We operate in a continually changing business environment and, therefore, new risks emerge from time to time. This section contains forward-looking statements. For an explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements, see "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." RISKS RELATED TO THE REORGANIZATION UNDER CHAPTER 11 HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION WILL NOT BE COMPARABLE. As a result of the Chapter 11 Filing, our financial statements were subject to the accounting prescribed by FASB ASC 852. We have applied fresh start accounting, pursuant to which our assets and liabilities were recorded at their estimated fair value using the principles of purchase accounting contained in FASB ASC Topic 805, "Business Combinations" ("FASB ASC 805") and the difference between our estimated fair value and our identifiable assets and liabilities was recognized as goodwill. 18 Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations as of and subsequent to the Effective Date will not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. This will make it difficult for stockholders to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS AND COMMON STOCK THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE, WHICH COULD CAUSE THE VALUE OF YOUR INVESTMENT TO DECLINE. Since our emergence from bankruptcy, there has been a low volume of trading in our common stock. We can give no assurance that there will be greater liquidity in the trading market for our common stock in the future. If there is limited liquidity in the trading market for our common stock, a sale of a large number of shares of our common stock could be adversely disruptive to the market price of our common stock. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These risks included those described or referred to in this "Risk Factors" section and in other documents incorporated herein by reference as well as, among other things: •Our operating and financial performance and prospects; •Our ability to repay our debt; •Our access to financial and capital markets to refinance our debt or replace the existing credit facilities; •Investor perceptions of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; •Our dividend policy; •Future sales of equity or equity-related securities; •Changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and •General financial, domestic, economic and other market conditions. OUR MONETARY OBLIGATIONS REQUIRE THAT A SIGNIFICANT PART OF OUR CASH FLOW BE USED TO PAY INTEREST AND FUND THESE OTHER OBLIGATIONS. We must satisfy the following obligations with respect to the Partnership Parks: •We must make annual distributions to our partners in the Partnership Parks, which will amount to approximately $63.2 million in 2011 (based on our ownership of units as of December 31, 2010, our share of the distribution will be approximately $27.2 million) with similar amounts (adjusted for changes in cost of living) payable in future years. •We must spend a minimum of approximately 6% of each of the Partnership Parks' annual revenues over specified periods for capital expenditures. •Each year we must offer to purchase a specified maximum number of partnership units from our partners in the Partnership Parks, of which number accumulates to the extent units are not tendered. The remaining redeemable units of the Georgia limited partner and Texas limited partner, respectively, represent an ultimate redemption value for the limited partnership units of approximately $351.1 million at December 31, 2010. The maximum number of units that we could be required to purchase in 2011 would result in an aggregate payment by us of approximately $334.1 million. As we purchase additional units, we are entitled to a proportionate 19 Table of Contents increase in our share of the minimum annual distributions. In future years, we may need to incur indebtedness under the TW Loan to satisfy such unit purchase obligations. We expect to use cash flow from the operations at the Partnership Parks to satisfy all or part of our annual distribution and capital expenditure obligations with respect to these parks before we use any of our other funds. The two partnerships generated approximately $48.0 million of cash in 2010 from operating activities after deduction of capital expenditures and excluding the impact of short-term intercompany advances from or repayments to us. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had loans outstanding of $239.3 million and $233.0 million, respectively, to the partnerships that own the Partnership Parks, primarily to fund the acquisition of Six Flags White Water Atlanta, working capital and capital improvements. The obligations relating to SFOG continue until 2027 and those relating to SFOT continue until 2028. The vast majority of our capital expenditures in 2011 and beyond will be made on a discretionary basis, although such expenditures are important to the parks' ability to sustain and grow revenues. We spent $79.4 million on capital expenditures for all of our continuing operations in the 2010 calendar year (net of property insurance recoveries) and we plan on spending approximately $80 to $90 million on capital expenditures in 2011. Our high level of debt under our Senior Credit Facility and the TW Loan and our other obligations could have important negative consequences to us and investors in our securities. These include the following: •We may not be able to satisfy all of our obligations, including, but not limited to, our obligations under the instruments governing our outstanding debt, which may cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration on other debt we may have incurred. •We could have difficulties obtaining necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, refinancing or other purposes. •We could have difficulties obtaining additional financing to fund our annual Partnership Park obligations if the amount of the TW Loan is not sufficient. •We will have to use a significant part of our cash flow to make payments on our debt and to satisfy the other obligations set forth above, which may reduce the capital available for operations and expansion. •Adverse economic or industry conditions may have more of a negative impact on us. We cannot be sure that cash generated from our parks will be as high as we expect or that our expenses will not be higher than we expect. Because a large portion of our expenses are fixed in any given year, our operating cash flow margins are highly dependent on revenues, which are largely driven by attendance levels, in-park sales and sponsorship and licensing activity. A lower amount of cash generated from our parks or higher expenses than expected, when coupled with our debt obligations, could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. THE SENIOR CREDIT FACILITY AND THE TW LOAN AGREEMENT INCLUDES FINANCIAL AND OTHER COVENANTS THAT WILL IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON OUR FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS. The Senior Credit Facility contains financial covenants that will require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio. In addition, the Senior Credit Facility restricts our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur liens, make investments, sell assets, pay dividends, repurchase stock or engage in transactions with affiliates. These covenants may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with the 20 Table of Contents covenants in the Senior Credit Facility and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under the Senior Credit Facility. The TW Loan agreement and related guarantee agreement contain covenants and events of default on substantially similar terms as those contained in the Senior Credit Facility that may impose restrictions on our operations. Events beyond our control, such as weather and economic, financial and industry conditions, may affect our ability to continue meeting our financial covenant ratios under the Senior Credit Facility and the TW Loan. The need to comply with these financial covenants and restrictions could limit our ability to execute our strategy and expand our business or prevent us from borrowing more money when necessary. The Senior Credit Facility and the TW Loan agreement also contain other events of default customary for financings of this type, including cross defaults to certain other indebtedness, cross acceleration to other indebtedness (with respect to the TW Loan) and certain change of control events. If an event of default were to occur, the lenders under the applicable facility could declare outstanding borrowings under these agreements immediately due and payable. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility and the TW Loan if such facilities were accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under these facilities could also result in an event of default under other indebtedness. We can make no assurances that we will be able to comply with these restrictions in the future or that our compliance would not cause us to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. CHANGES IN OUR CREDIT RATINGS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF HOLDINGS' COMMON STOCK. Credit rating agencies continually review their ratings for the companies they follow including us. In connection with our emergence from bankruptcy, the rating agencies evaluated our new credit facilities and Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's provided an initial corporate family rating of B2 and B, respectively. In November 2010, Moody's upgraded our credit rating to B1 and Standard & Poor's upgraded our credit rating to B+. In February 2011, Standard & Poor's increased our credit rating to BB-. Both rating agencies have placed our ratings on "stable outlook." A negative change in our ratings or the perception that such a change could occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE—ACCESS TO CASH FLOW OF MOST OF HOLDINGS' SUBSIDIARIES IS LIMITED. Holdings is a holding company whose primary assets consist of shares of stock or other equity interests in its subsidiaries, and Holdings conducts substantially all of its current operations through its subsidiaries. Almost all of its income is derived from its subsidiaries. Accordingly, Holdings is dependent on dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations. We had $187.1 million of cash and cash equivalents on a consolidated basis at December 31, 2010, of which $13.4 million was held at Holdings. Other than Holdings' interests in the Partnership Parks, all of Holdings' current operations are conducted by subsidiaries of SFO, Holdings' principal direct wholly-owned subsidiary. Holdings may, in the future, transfer other assets to SFO or other entities owned by Holdings. The Senior Credit Facility and the TW Loan limit the ability of SFO to pay dividends or make other distributions to Holdings. 21 Table of Contents ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS—PROVISIONS IN HOLDINGS' CORPORATE DOCUMENTS AND THE LAW OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE AS WELL AS CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS IN CERTAIN OF OUR DEBT AND OTHER AGREEMENTS COULD DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL, EVEN IF THAT CHANGE WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO STOCKHOLDERS, OR IF THAT CHANGE COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. Certain provisions in Holdings' Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Senior Credit Facility agreement and the TW Loan agreement may have the effect of deterring transactions involving a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. Holdings' Certificate of Incorporation provides for the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by Holdings' Board of Directors. The authorization of preferred shares empowers Holdings' Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. If issued, the preferred stock could also dilute the holders of Holdings' common stock and could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. Additionally, Holdings' Certificate of Incorporation contains a provision pursuant to which, for one year following the Effective Date, stockholders are prohibited from calling a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of removing directors unless a majority of the Board of Directors as of the Effective Date calls a special meeting at which 80% of the stockholders would have to approve any such removal. Moreover, under Holdings' Certificate of Incorporation, there can be no election of directors for at least one year following the Effective Date unless a majority of the full initial Board of Directors as of the Effective Date calls an early annual meeting. If the common stock is listed on a national securities exchange or held of record by more than 2,000 holders, Holdings will be subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in some circumstances. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. All of these factors could materially adversely affect the price of the common stock. The Senior Credit Facility agreement and the TW Loan agreement contain provisions pursuant to which it is an event of default if any "person" becomes the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the common stock. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us and if any "person" were to become the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the common stock, we may not be able to repay such indebtedness. We have the exclusive right to use certain Warner Bros. and DC Comics characters in our theme parks in the United States (except in the Las Vegas metropolitan area), Canada, Mexico and other countries. Warner Bros. can terminate these licenses under certain circumstances, including the acquisition of us by persons engaged in the movie or television industries. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us. THE POTENTIAL ISSUANCE BY HOLDINGS OF ADDITIONAL SHARES OF COMMON STOCK PURSUANT TO THE DELAYED DRAW EQUITY PURCHASE OR THE SIX FLAGS ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN OR AWARDED AS COMPENSATION TO NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS MAY DILUTE THE OWNERSHIP INTEREST OF EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. At any time until June 1, 2011, Holdings, if so authorized by a majority of the members of Holdings' Board of Directors, shall have the right, by delivering written notice to certain entities, to require such entities to purchase an aggregate of $25 million of common stock (the "Delayed Draw 22 Table of Contents Shares"). In addition, in connection with the Plan, the Six Flags Entertainment Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan became effective (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan"). The Long-Term Incentive Plan permits Holdings to grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, unrestricted stock, deferred stock units, performance and cash-settled awards and dividend equivalents (collectively, "Awards") to select employees, officers, directors and consultants of Holdings and its affiliates. The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that no more than 4,833,333 shares of common stock may be issued pursuant to Awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan as of the Effective Date, and if and to the extent the Delayed Draw Equity Purchase is consummated, up to 149,956 additional shares of common stock shall be available for issuance under the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Any issuance of the Delayed Draw Shares or any awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. In addition, the perceived risk associated with the possible issuance of a large number of shares of common stock could cause some of Holdings' stockholders to sell their common stock, thus causing the trading price of the common stock to decline. Any sales in the public market of shares of common stock could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of shares of common stock. If the common stock price declines, it may be more difficult for Holdings to raise additional capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION THAT WE CURRENTLY CANNOT PREDICT. General economic conditions and the global recession may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. The current negative economic conditions affect our guests' levels of discretionary spending. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy or us, a continued economic slowdown or further deterioration in the economy, could adversely affect the frequency with which our guests choose to visit our theme parks and the amount that our guests spend on our products when they visit. This could lead to a decrease in our revenues, operating income and cash flows. Additionally, general economic conditions throughout the world could impact our ability to obtain supplies, services and credit as well as the ability of third parties to meet their obligations to us, including, for example, payment of claims by our insurance carriers and/or the funding of our lines of credit. VARIOUS FACTORS—LOCAL CONDITIONS, EVENTS, NATURAL DISASTERS, DISTURBANCES, CONTAGIOUS DISEASES, AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES—CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT PARK ATTENDANCE. Lower attendance at our parks may be caused by various local conditions, events, weather, contagious diseases, or natural disasters. In addition, since some of our parks are near major urban areas and appeal to teenagers and young adults, there may be disturbances at one or more parks which negatively affect our image. This may result in a decrease in attendance at the affected parks. Our business and financial results were adversely impacted by the terrorist activities occurring in the United States on September 11, 2001. Terrorist alerts and threats of future terrorist activities may adversely affect attendance at our parks. We cannot predict what effect any further terrorist activities that may occur in the future may have on our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents RISK OF ACCIDENTS—THERE IS A RISK OF ACCIDENTS OCCURRING AT OUR PARKS OR COMPETING PARKS WHICH MAY REDUCE ATTENDANCE AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. Almost all of our parks feature "thrill rides." While we carefully maintain the safety of our rides, there are inherent risks involved with these attractions. An accident or an injury (including water-borne illnesses on water rides) at any of our parks or at parks operated by our competitors, particularly accidents or injuries that attract media attention, may reduce attendance at our parks, causing a decrease in revenues. Our current insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. In addition, the majority of our current insurance policies expire on May 1, 2011. We cannot predict the level of the premiums that we may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any self-insurance retention applicable thereto, the level of aggregate coverage available or the availability of coverage for specific risks. ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS—BAD WEATHER CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT ATTENDANCE AT OUR PARKS. Because most of the attractions at our theme parks are outdoors, attendance at our parks is adversely affected by bad weather and forecasts of bad weather. The effects of bad weather on attendance can be more pronounced at our water parks. Bad weather and forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions can reduce the number of people who come to our parks, which negatively affects our revenues. We believe that our operating results in certain years were adversely affected by abnormally hot, cold and/or wet weather in a number of our major U.S. markets. In addition, since a number of our parks are geographically concentrated in the eastern portion of the United States, a weather pattern that affects that area could adversely affect a number of our parks. Also, bad weather and forecasts of bad weather on weekend days have greater negative impact than on weekdays because weekend days are typically peak days for attendance at our parks. SEASONALITY—OUR OPERATIONS ARE SEASONAL. Our operations are seasonal. Approximately 82% of our annual park attendance and revenue occurs during the second and third calendar quarters of each year. As a result, when conditions or events described in the above risk factors occur during the operating season, particularly during the peak season of July and August, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be mitigated. Accordingly, such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, most of our expenses for maintenance and costs of adding new attractions are incurred when the parks are closed in the mid to late autumn and winter months. For this reason, a sequential quarter-to-quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. COMPETITION—THE THEME PARK INDUSTRY COMPETES WITH NUMEROUS ENTERTAINMENT ALTERNATIVES. Our parks compete with other theme, water and amusement parks and with other types of recreational facilities and forms of entertainment, including movies, home entertainment options, sports attractions and vacation travel. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation and leisure time industries generally, such as general economic conditions, including relative fuel prices, and changes in consumer spending habits. The principal competitive factors of a park include location, price, the uniqueness and perceived quality of the rides and attractions, the atmosphere and cleanliness of the park and the quality of its food and entertainment. 24 Table of Contents CUSTOMER PRIVACY—IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR CUSTOMERS' CREDIT CARD DATA, WE COULD BE EXPOSED TO DATA LOSS, LITIGATION AND LIABILITY, AND OUR REPUTATION COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY HARMED. In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information securely over public networks and store it in our data warehouse. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. LABOR COSTS—INCREASED COSTS OF LABOR, PENSION, POST-RETIREMENT AND MEDICAL AND OTHER EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS MAY REDUCE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and employees. Increased labor costs, due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefit costs or otherwise, would adversely impact our operating expenses. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees to keep pace with our needs. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations may be adversely affected. With approximately 1,900 full-time employees, our results of operations are also substantially affected by costs of retirement and medical benefits. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. At least some of these macro-economic factors may continue to put pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure, including as a result of any new legislation, could reduce the profitability of our businesses. RECENT CHANGES IN OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT MAY CAUSE UNCERTAINTY IN, OR BE DISRUPTIVE TO, OUR BUSINESS. We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management and Holdings' Board of Directors. On May 11, 2010, Al Weber, was named our President and Interim Chief Executive Officer, and we announced that we had retained an executive search firm to seek candidates to serve as our Chief Executive Officer on a permanent basis. Effective as of May 11, 2010, Mark Shapiro was no longer serving as our President and Chief Executive Officer, and effective as of June 10, 2010, he was no longer with the Company. In addition, Mark Jennings resigned as a member of Holdings' Board of Directors effective as of May 11, 2010 and Mark Shapiro resigned as a member of Holdings' Board of Directors effective May 28, 2010. On June 16, 2010, we terminated, without cause, the employment agreements with Michael Antinoro, Executive Vice President, Entertainment and Marketing, Andrew Schleimer, Executive Vice President, Strategic Development and In-Park Services, and Mark Quenzel, Executive Vice President, Park Strategy and Management, and made other reductions in corporate staffing. Effective as of July 16, 2010, Messrs. Antinoro, Quenzel and Schleimer were no longer employed by the Company. 25 Table of Contents On August 12, 2010, James Reid-Anderson was named the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Usman Nabi, the Company's prior Chairman, continues to serve as a Director of the Company and a member of the Executive Committee and Al Weber assumed the role of Chief Operating Officer of the Company. On August 20, 2010, the Company entered into a retirement and consulting agreement with its former General Counsel, James M. Coughlin, setting forth certain terms relating to Mr. Coughlin's retirement from the Company, which retirement became effective July 28, 2010. On September 7, 2010, the Company appointed John M. Duffey as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Lance C. Balk as the Company's Executive Vice President and General Counsel. The Company terminated Jeffrey R. Speed, the former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, from his employment with the Company, without cause, as that term is defined in Mr. Speed's employment agreement with the Company, effective October 6, 2010. The Company also terminated David Kyle Bradshaw, the Company's former Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer, from his employment with the Company, without cause, as that term is defined in Mr. Bradshaw's employment agreement with the Company, effective October 6, 2010. On September 28, 2010, the Company terminated Louis Koskovolis, the former Executive Vice President, Corporate Alliances, of the Company, from his employment with the Company, without cause, as that term is defined in Mr. Koskovolis' employment agreement with the Company. Effective as of October 28, 2010, Mr. Koskovolis was no longer employed by the Company. The Company has made strategic changes in addition to personnel changes, which are based on greater cost constraint and yield management, and plans to continue its cost containment strategy. These changes in the Company's senior management, Board of Directors and operations may be disruptive to its business and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, employees and others concerning the Company's future direction and performance. Any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition and the market price of Holdings' common stock. Additionally, the Company may not be able to achieve or fully implement its planned additional cost reduction measures without adversely impacting revenues or guest service. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION—OUR OPERATIONS AND OUR OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY SUBJECT US TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH CREATES UNCERTAINTY REGARDING FUTURE ENVIRNMENTAL EXPENDITURES AND LIABILITIES The Company may be required to incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges to air, water and land; water resources; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the cleanup of properties affected by regulated materials. Under these and other environmental requirements, we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases from current or formerly owned or operated facilities. Environmental laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the relevant entity knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of regulated materials may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate property properly, may impair or ability to use, transfer or obtain financing regarding our property. We may be required to incur costs to remediate potential environmental hazards, mitigate environmental risks in the future, or comply with other environmental requirements. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2010 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 