Item 1A. Risk Factors Below are a series of risk factors that may affect our results of operations or financial performance. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. Risk Factors Relating to the Company and Industry Related Risks US Airways Group could experience significant operating losses in the future. There are several reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, why US Airways Group might fail to achieve profitability and might in fact experience significant losses. In particular, the weakened condition of the economy and the high volatility of fuel prices have had and continue to have an impact on our operating results, and overall worsening economic conditions increase the risk that we will experience losses. Our business may be adversely affected by a downturn in economic conditions. Due to the discretionary nature of business and leisure travel spending, airline industry revenues are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy and the economies in other regions of the world. Unfavorable conditions in these broader economies can result in decreased passenger demand for air travel and changes in booking practices, both of which in turn can have a strong negative effect on our revenues. In addition, during challenging economic times, actions by our competitors to increase their revenues can have an adverse impact on our revenues. See “The airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic” below. Certain contractual obligations limit our ability to shrink the number of aircraft in operation below certain levels. As a result, we may not be able to optimize the number of aircraft in operation compared to a decrease in passenger demand for air travel. Increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. Changes in the domestic and global financial markets may increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing needed for the acquisition of aircraft that we have contractual commitments to purchase and for other types of financings we may seek in order to raise capital or fund other types of obligations. Any downgrades to our credit rating may likewise increase the cost and reduce the availability of financings. Further, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates. These are primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars, or “LIBOR.” LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. See also the discussion of interest rate risk in Part II, Item 7A. Our high level of fixed obligations limits our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limits our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, aircraft leases and financings, aircraft purchase commitments, leases and developments of airport and other facilities and other cash obligations. We also 17 Table of Contents have certain guaranteed costs associated with our regional alliances. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these obligations: • A decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase. • We may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. Our obligations also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our existing indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets. Moreover, the terms of our Citicorp credit facility and certain of our other financing arrangements require us to maintain consolidated unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of not less than $850 million, with not less than $750 million (subject to partial reductions upon certain reductions in the outstanding principal amount of the loan) of that amount held in accounts subject to control agreements. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations depends on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic and political conditions. A failure to pay our fixed costs or a breach of the contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by the credit card servicers and the exercise of remedies by our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our contractual obligations, repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs. If our financial condition worsens, provisions in our credit card processing and other commercial agreements may adversely affect our liquidity. We have agreements with companies that process customer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and other services. These agreements allow these processing companies, under certain conditions, to hold an amount of our cash (referred to as a “holdback”) equal to a portion of advance ticket sales that have been processed by that company, but for which we have not yet provided the air transportation. These holdback requirements can be modified at the discretion of the processing companies upon the occurrence of specific events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition. An increase in the current holdback balances to higher percentages up to and including 100% of relevant advanced ticket sales could materially reduce our liquidity. Likewise, other of our commercial agreements contain provisions that allow other entities to impose less favorable terms, including an acceleration of amounts due, in the event of material adverse changes in our financial condition. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act (the “RLA”). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board. These processes do not apply to our current and ongoing negotiations for post-merger integrated labor agreements, and this means unions may not lawfully engage in concerted refusals to work, such as strikes, slow-downs, sick-outs or other similar activity. Nonetheless, after more than three years of negotiations without a resolution to the bargaining issues that arose from the merger, there is a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and impair its financial performance. Likewise, employees represented by unions that have reached post-merger integrated agreements could engage in improper actions that disrupt our operations. 18 Table of Contents If we incur problems with any of our third party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including Express flight operations, aircraft maintenance, ground services and facilities, reservations and baggage handling. Similar agreements may be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. These agreements are generally subject to termination after notice by the third party service provider. We are also at risk should one of these service providers cease operations, and there is no guarantee that we could replace these providers on a timely basis with comparably priced providers. Recent volatility in fuel prices, disruptions to capital markets and the current economic downturn in general have subjected certain of these third party service providers to strong financial pressures. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services, resulting from financial hardships or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity. Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the availability, price volatility and the cost of aircraft fuel, which represents the largest single cost item in our business. Fuel prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years and sharply in the last year. Because of the amount of fuel needed to operate the airline, even a relatively small increase in the price of fuel can have a significant adverse aggregate effect on our costs. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry and unpredictability of the market, we can offer no assurance that we may be able to increase our fares or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset fuel prices. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, we cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. Natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages and additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. From time to time we enter into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. Our ability to hedge in the future, however, may be limited, particularly if the financial condition of the airline worsens. Also, our fuel hedging arrangements do not completely protect us against price increases and are limited in both volume of fuel and duration. Finally, a rapid decline in the price of fuel can adversely impact our short-term liquidity as our hedge counterparties require that we post collateral in the form of cash or letters of credit when the projected future market price of fuel drops below the strike price on existing hedging arrangements. See also the discussion in Part II, Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure or disruption of these systems could harm our business. To operate our business, we depend on automated systems, including our computerized airline reservation systems, our flight operations systems, our telecommunication systems, our airport customer self-service kiosks and our websites. Our website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information on a timely and reliable basis. Substantial or repeated disruptions or failures of any of these automated systems could impair our operations, reduce the attractiveness of our services and could result in lost revenues and increased costs. In addition, these automated systems require periodic maintenance, upgrades and replacements, and our business may be harmed if we fail to properly maintain, upgrade or replace such systems. 19 Table of Contents The integration of our business units following the merger continues to present significant challenges. We continue to face significant challenges relating to our merger in consolidating functions and integrating diverse organizations, information technology systems, processes, procedures, operations and training and maintenance programs, in a timely and efficient manner. This integration has been and will continue to be costly, complex and time consuming. Failure to successfully complete the integration may adversely affect our business and results from operations. Changes to our business model that are designed to increase revenues may not be successful and may cause operational difficulties or decreased demand. We have implemented several new measures designed to increase revenue and offset costs. These measures include charging separately for services that had previously been included within the price of a ticket and increasing other pre-existing fees. We may introduce additional initiatives in the future. The implementation of these initiatives creates logistical challenges that could harm the operational performance of the airline. Also, the new and increased fees might reduce the demand for air travel on our airline or across the industry in general, particularly as weakening economic conditions make our customers more sensitive to increased travel costs. The airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, some of which have more financial resources or lower cost structures than ours, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In many of our markets we compete with at least one low cost air carrier. Our revenues are sensitive to numerous factors, and the actions of other carriers in the areas of pricing, scheduling and promotions can have a substantial adverse impact on overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. In addition, because a significant portion of our traffic is short-haul travel, we are more susceptible than other major airlines to competition from surface transportation such as automobiles and trains. Low cost carriers have a profound impact on industry revenues. Using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares, particularly those targeted at business passengers, in order to shift demand from larger, more-established airlines. Some low cost carriers, which have cost structures lower than ours, have better financial performance and significant numbers of aircraft on order for delivery in the next few years. These low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through growth and could continue to have an impact on the overall performance of US Airways Group. Industry consolidation could weaken our competitive position. If mergers or other forms of industry consolidation including antitrust immunity grants take place, we might or might not be included as a participant. Depending on which carriers combine and which assets, if any, are sold or otherwise transferred to other carriers in connection with such combinations, our competitive position relative to the post-combination carriers or other carriers that obtain assets could be harmed. In addition, as carriers combine through traditional mergers or antitrust immunity grants, their route networks might grow and result in greater overlap with our network, which in turn could result in lower overall market share and revenues for us. Such consolidation is not limited to the U.S., but could include further consolidation among international carriers in Europe and elsewhere. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect the results of our operations or our financial performance. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel, particularly in light of reductions in headcount associated with cost-saving measures implemented during 2008. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect our business. 20 Table of Contents The travel industry continues to face ongoing security concerns. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and continuing terrorist threats materially impacted and continue to impact air travel. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act mandates improved flight deck security; deployment of federal air marshals on board flights; improved airport perimeter access security; airline crew security training; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel; additional provision of passenger data to U.S. Customs and enhanced background checks. These increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks and other such measures as may be introduced in the future generate higher operating costs for airlines. A concurrent increase in airport security charges and procedures, such as restrictions on carry-on baggage, has also had and may continue to have a disproportionate impact on short-haul travel, which constitutes a significant portion of our flying and revenue. We would also be materially impacted in the event of further terrorist attacks or perceived terrorist threats. Changes in government regulation could increase our operating costs and limit our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the DOT, the FAA, the TSA and the Department of Homeland Security have issued a number of directives and other regulations. These requirements impose substantial costs on airlines. On October 10, 2008, the FAA finalized new rules governing flight operations at the three major New York airports. These rules did not take effect because of a legal challenge, but the FAA has pushed forward with a reduction in the number of flights per hour at LaGuardia. Currently, the FAA is attempting to work with airlines to implement its new operations cap at LaGuardia through voluntary methods. If this is not successful, the FAA may resort to other methods to reduce congestion in New York. Additionally, the DOT recently finalized a policy change that will permit airports to charge differentiated landing fees during congested periods, which could impact our ability to serve certain markets in the future. The new rule is being challenged in court by the industry. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and policies have been proposed or discussed from time to time, including recently introduced federal legislation on a “passenger bill of rights,” that, if adopted, could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. The state of New York’s attempt to adopt such a measure has been successfully challenged by the airline industry. Other states, however, are contemplating similar legislation. The DOT also has a rulemaking pending and recently completed a stakeholder task force working on various initiatives that could lead to additional expansion of airline obligations in the customer service area and increase our costs. Finally, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be available. We cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our operating costs. In addition, increased environmental regulation may increase costs or restrict our operations. The EU has been particularly aggressive in this area. The inability to maintain labor costs at competitive levels could harm our financial performance. Our business plan includes assumptions about labor costs going forward. Currently, our labor costs are very competitive. However, we cannot assure you that labor costs going forward will remain competitive, because some of our agreements are amendable now and others may become amendable, because competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs or because we may agree to higher-cost provisions in our current labor negotiations. Approximately 87% of the employees within US Airways Group are represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, including unionized groups of our employees abroad. Some of our unions have brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration. Unions may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in the bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. If successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create additional costs that we did not anticipate. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to operate and grow our route network in the future is dependent on the availability of adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system. In order to operate our existing flight schedule and, where appropriate, add service along new or existing routes, we must be able to obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable) and office space. For example, at our largest hub airport, we are seeking to increase international service despite challenging airport space constraints. The nation’s aging air traffic control infrastructure presents challenges as well. The ability of the air traffic control system to handle traffic in high-density areas where we have a large concentration of flights is critical to our ability to operate our existing schedule. Also, as airports around the world become more congested, we cannot always be sure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner given operating constraints at airports throughout our network. We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result. We are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. Several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of de-icing fluid (glycol) to local groundwater, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport de-icing facilities. Such efforts are likely to impose additional costs and restrictions on airlines using those airports. We do not believe, however, that such environmental developments will have a material impact on our capital expenditures or otherwise adversely affect our operations, operating costs or competitive position. We are also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require us to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. Under federal law, generators of waste materials, and owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. We have liability for such costs at various sites, although the future costs associated with the remediation efforts are currently not expected to have a material adverse affect on our business. We have various leases and agreements with respect to real property, tanks and pipelines with airports and other operators. Under these leases and agreements, we have agreed to standard language indemnifying the lessor or operator against environmental liabilities associated with the real property or operations described under the agreement, even if we are not the party responsible for the initial event that caused the environmental damage. We also participate in leases with other airlines in fuel consortiums and fuel committees at airports, where such indemnities are generally joint and several among the participating airlines. Recently, climate change issues and greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon) have attracted international and domestic regulatory interest that may result in the imposition of additional regulation on airlines. Any such regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results. California is in the process of implementing environmental provisions aimed at limiting emissions from off-road diesel-powered vehicles, which may include some airline belt loaders and tugs and require a change of ground service vehicles. The future costs associated with replacing some or all of our ground fleets in California cities are currently not expected to have a material adverse affect on our business. Governmental authorities in several U.S. and foreign cities are also considering or have already implemented aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews and limitations on daytime take-offs and landings. We have been able to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, but our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. Ongoing data security compliance requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data breach could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of customer and other sensitive information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit 22 Table of Contents existing vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store database information. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the U.S. and abroad (particularly in the EU), including requirements for varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach. Many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed certain data security standards that we must meet. In particular, we were required by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, founded by the credit card companies, to comply with their highest level of data security standards. While we currently meet these standards, new and revised standards may be imposed that may be difficult for us to meet. In addition to the Payment Card Industry Standards discussed above, failure to comply with the other privacy and data use and security requirements of our partners or related laws and regulations to which we are subject may expose us to fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business. In addition, failure to address appropriately these issues could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We operate principally through primary hubs in Charlotte, Philadelphia and Phoenix and secondary hubs/focus cities in New York, Washington, D.C., Boston and Las Vegas. A majority of our flights either originate in or fly into one of these locations. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and adversely impact our financial condition and operations. Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of anticipated fleet capacity may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The success of our business depends on, among other things, the ability to operate a certain number and type of aircraft. In many cases, the aircraft we intend to operate are not yet in our fleet, but we have contractual commitments to purchase or lease them. If for any reason we were unable to secure deliveries of new aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates, this could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Our failure to integrate newly purchased aircraft into our fleet as planned might require us to seek extensions of the terms for some leased aircraft. Such unanticipated extensions may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point at which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs. If new aircraft orders are not filled on a timely basis, we could face higher monthly rental rates. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. In addition, we have obtained third party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. The 23 Table of Contents program has been extended, with the same conditions and premiums, until March 31, 2009. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. The failure of one or more of our insurers could result in a lack of coverage for a period of time. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. Because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our business is subject to weather factors and seasonal variations in airline travel, which cause our results to fluctuate. Our operations are vulnerable to severe weather conditions in parts of our network that could disrupt service, create air traffic control problems, decrease revenue and increase costs, such as during hurricane season in the Caribbean and Southeast United States, snow and severe winters in the Northeast United States and thunderstorms in the Eastern United States. In addition, the air travel business historically fluctuates on a seasonal basis. Due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Our results of operations will likely reflect weather factors and seasonality, and therefore quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year, and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. We may be adversely affected by global events that affect travel behavior. Our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected by global events beyond our control. Acts of terrorism, wars or other military conflicts, including the war in Iraq, may depress air travel, particularly on international routes. An outbreak of a contagious disease such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), avian flu, or any other influenza-type illness, if it were to persist for an extended period, could again materially affect the airline industry and us by reducing revenues and impacting travel behavior. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. As we expand our international operations, we will have significant operating revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currencies can significantly affect our operating performance and the value of our assets and liabilities located outside of the United States. The use of US Airways Group’s pre-merger NOLs and certain other tax attributes could be limited in the future. From the time of the merger until the first half of 2007, a significant portion of US Airways Group’s common stock was beneficially owned by a small number of equity investors. Since the merger, some of the equity investors have sold portions of their holdings and other investors have purchased US Airways Group stock, and, as a result, we believe an “ownership change” as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 382 occurred for US Airways Group in February 2007. When a company undergoes such an ownership change, Section 382 limits the future ability to utilize any net operating losses, or NOL, generated before the ownership change and certain subsequently recognized “built-in” losses and deductions, if any, existing as of the date of the ownership change. A company’s ability to utilize new NOL arising after the ownership change is not affected. Until US Airways Group has used all of its existing NOL, future significant shifts in ownership of US Airways Group’s common stock could result in a new Section 382 limit on our NOL as of the date of an additional ownership change. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on September 27, 2005 upon the effectiveness of our merger. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • movements in fuel prices; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • general market conditions. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of US Airways Group’s 7% senior convertible notes due 2020 will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of US Airways Group and its stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the ability of US Airways Group’s board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; • a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; • a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders; • a requirement that holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors approve amendment of the amended and restated bylaws; and • super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of US Airways Group’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of US Airways Group’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, US Airways Group is subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits 25 Table of Contents business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders, such as our equity investors at the time of the merger, whose acquisition of US Airways Group’s securities is approved by the board of directors prior to the investment under Section 203. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting and ownership by foreign owners. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of shares held by such persons would exceed 24.9% of the voting stock of our company. In addition, any attempt to transfer equity securities to a non-U.S. citizen in excess of 49.9% of our outstanding equity securities will be void and of no effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 