Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to the Company and Industry Related Risks Below are a series of risk factors that may affect the results of operations or financial performance of the Company. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of historically high fuel costs, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel or significant further increases in fuel costs could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of aircraft fuel. Fuel prices increased substantially in 2004 compared with 2003 and continued to increase through 2005 and into 2006. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we generally have not been able to increase our fares or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset the rise of fuel prices in the past and we may not be able to do so in the future. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. In addition, from time to time we enter into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. Our ability to hedge in the future, however, may be limited. See also the discussion in Item 7. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our high level of fixed obligations limits our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limits our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, aircraft leases and financings, aircraft purchase commitments, leases of airport and other facilities and other cash obligations. We also have guaranteed costs associated with our regional alliances and commitments to purchase aircraft from Airbus. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these obligations: • A decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase. • We may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures. • We may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. Our obligations also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our existing indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets. Moreover, the terms of our secured loans restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make certain equity issuances unless we use the proceeds of those transactions to repay the loans, require us to maintain a minimum cash balance declining from $525 million to $300 million over the term of the loans, and restrict our ability to take certain other actions, including mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. The Company’s affinity credit card partner agreement with Juniper Bank, a subsidiary of Barclays PLC, requires the Company to maintain an average quarterly balance of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of at least $1 billion for the entirety of the agreement. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations depends on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic and political conditions. A failure to pay our fixed costs or breach of the contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by 19 Table of Contents the credit card servicers and the exercise of remedies by our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our contractual obligations, repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs. We may not perform as well financially as we expect following the merger. In deciding to enter into the merger agreement, US Airways Group and America West Holdings considered the benefits of operating as a combined company, including, among others, an enhanced ability to compete in the airline industry and the fact that the proprietary brands of the combined company would permit US Airways Group to further differentiate itself from other airline companies. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated revenue opportunities and cost savings from combining the businesses of US Airways Group and America West Holdings. We have estimated that the combined companies expect to realize approximately $600 million in incremental operating cost and revenue synergies. We cannot assure you, however, that these synergies will be realized. To realize the anticipated benefits from the merger, we must successfully combine the businesses of US Airways Group and America West Holdings in a manner that permits those costs savings and other synergies to be realized in a timely fashion. In addition, we must achieve these savings without adversely affecting revenues or suffering a business interruption. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized fully or at all. The integration of US Airways Group and America West Holdings following the merger presents significant challenges. US Airways Group and America West Holdings will face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating their organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key Company personnel. The integration of US Airways Group and America West Holdings will be costly, complex and time consuming, and management will have to devote substantial effort to that integration that could otherwise be spent on operational matters or other strategic opportunities. We expect that the merger will result in certain synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. We, however, may never realize these expected synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. US Airways Group may experience increased competition that limits its ability to expand its business. We may not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers. In addition, assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings and expected revenue synergies may be inaccurate, or general industry and business conditions may deteriorate. Furthermore, integrating operations will require significant efforts and expenses. Our management may have its attention diverted from ongoing operations while trying to integrate. US Airways Group continues to experience significant operating losses. Despite significant labor cost reductions and other cost savings achieved in the prior bankruptcies, US Airways Group has continued to experience significant operating losses through 2005. Since early 2001, the U.S. airline industry’s revenue performance has fallen short of what would have been expected based on historical growth trends. This shortfall has been caused by a number of factors, including rising fuel costs, as discussed above, and the factors discussed below. Low cost carriers (including AWA and the new US Airways) have had a profound impact on industry revenues. Using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares, particularly those targeted at business passengers, in order to shift demand from larger, more-established airlines. Some low cost carriers, which have cost structures lower than ours, have better financial performance and more cost effective access to capital to fund fleet growth. These low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through pricing and growth and could continue to have an impact on the overall performance of US Airways Group. 20 Table of Contents The advent of Internet travel websites has lowered the cost to airlines of selling tickets. However, it has also had a large negative impact on airline revenues because travel consumers now have access to nearly perfect pricing information and, as a result, have become more efficient at finding lower fare alternatives. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Our business plan includes assumptions about labor costs going forward. Currently, the labor costs of both AWA and US Airways are very competitive and very similar; however, we cannot assure that labor costs going forward will remain competitive, either because our agreements may become amendable or because competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs. Approximately 80% of the employees within US Airways Group are represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. In the United States, prior to the merger these employees were organized into nine labor groups represented by five different unions at US Airways, seven labor groups represented by four different unions at AWA, four labor groups represented by four different unions at Piedmont, and four labor groups represented by four different unions at PSA. There are additional unionized groups of US Airways employees abroad. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act (the “RLA”). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement, or the parties have been released to “self-help” by the National Mediation Board. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes, after release by the National Mediation Board carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. None of the US Airways labor agreements becomes amendable until December 31, 2009. Of the AWA labor agreements, three are currently amendable, and a fourth becomes amendable in 2006. There is the potential for litigation to arise in the context of the labor integration process. Unions may bring court actions or grievance arbitrations, and may seek to compel airlines to engage in the bargaining processes where the airline believes it has no such obligation. There is a risk that one or more unions may pursue such judicial or arbitral avenues in the context of the merger, and, if successful, could create additional costs that we did not anticipate. There is also a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other action short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and impair its financial performance. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. A substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates. These are primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars, or LIBOR. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of these systems, or the failure to integrate them successfully following the merger, could harm our business. We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation systems, our flight operations systems, our telecommunication systems and our websites. Our website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver 21 Table of Contents important flight information. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services and could cause our customers to purchase tickets from another airline. Furthermore, we are in the process of integrating the Company’s automated systems. Any disruption in these systems could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. If we incur problems with any of our third party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including express operations, aircraft maintenance, ground facilities, reservations and baggage handling. Similar agreements may be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. All of these agreements are subject to termination after notice. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The travel industry, materially adversely affected by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens associated with security. The attacks of September 11, 2001 materially impacted and continue to impact air travel. The Aviation Security Act mandates improved flight deck security; deployment of federal air marshals onboard flights; improved airport perimeter access security; airline crew security training; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel; additional provision of passenger data to U.S. Customs and enhanced background checks. These increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks have increased costs to airlines. A concurrent increase in airport security charges and procedures has also had a disproportionate impact on short-haul travel, which constitutes a significant portion of US Airways’ flying. We would also be materially impacted in the event of further terrorist attacks or perceived terrorist threats. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. In addition, we have obtained third party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. The program has been extended, with the same conditions and premiums, until August 31, 2006. Under Vision 100, the President may continue the insurance program until March 30, 2008. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. Because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Changes in government regulation could increase our operating costs and limit our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws and DOT, FAA, TSA and the Department of Homeland Security have issued a number of directives and other regulations. These requirements impose substantial costs on airlines. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may 22 Table of Contents not be available. We cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our operating costs. The use of America West Holdings’ and US Airways Group’s respective pre-merger NOLs and certain other tax attributes is limited following the merger. Although US Airways Group continues as the publicly traded parent entity following the merger, each of America West Holdings and US Airways Group underwent an “ownership change,” as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 382, in connection with the merger. When a company undergoes such an ownership change, Section 382 limits the company’s future ability to utilize any net operating losses, or NOLs, generated before the ownership change and certain subsequently recognized “built-in” losses and deductions, if any, existing as of the date of the ownership change. A company’s ability to utilize new NOLs arising after the ownership change is not affected. An ownership change generally occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership percentage in a corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points in the shorter of any three-year period or the period since the last ownership change. The airline industry is intensely competitive. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, some of which have more financial resources or lower cost structures than ours, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In many of our markets we compete with at least one other low-cost air carrier. Our revenues are sensitive to numerous factors, and the actions of other carriers in the areas of pricing, scheduling and promotions can have a substantial adverse impact on overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. In addition, because a significant portion of US Airways’ traffic is short-haul travel, US Airways is more susceptible than other major airlines to competition from surface transportation such as automobiles and trains. Certain liabilities were not fully extinguished as a result of confirmation of the plan of reorganization. While a significant amount of the Debtors’ prepetition liabilities were discharged as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, a large number of their obligations remain in effect following the merger. Various agreements and liabilities remain in place, including secured financings, aircraft agreements, certain environmental liabilities, certain grievances with our labor unions, leases and other contracts, as well as allowed administrative claims, that will still subject us to substantial obligations and liabilities. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We operate principally through primary hubs in Charlotte, Philadelphia and Phoenix and secondary hubs/focus cities in Pittsburgh, Las Vegas, New York, Washington, D.C. and Boston. A majority of our flights either originate or fly into one of these locations. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and adversely impact our financial condition and operations. 23 Table of Contents Our business is subject to weather factors and seasonal variations in airline travel, which cause our results to fluctuate. Our operations are vulnerable to severe weather conditions in parts of our network that could disrupt service, create air traffic control problems, decrease revenue, and increase costs, such as during hurricane season in the Caribbean and Southeast United States, and snow and severe winters in the Northeast United States. In addition, the air travel business historically fluctuates on a seasonal basis. Due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. The results of operations of the combined company will likely reflect weather factors and seasonality, and therefore quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year and the prior results of America West Holdings and US Airways Group are not necessarily indicative of the Company’s future results. Employee benefit plans represent significant continuing costs to the sponsoring employers. US Airways Group and its subsidiaries sponsor employee benefit plans and arrangements that provide retirement, medical, disability and other benefits to our employees and participating retirees. Many of the benefits provided under these plans are mandated under various collective bargaining agreements, while others are provided on a voluntary basis as a means to recruit and retain valuable employees. While we recently terminated certain defined benefit pension plans and significantly reduced post-retirement medical benefits and other retiree benefits, the benefit obligations associated with the remaining employee benefit plans and related costs represent a substantial continuing cost to the sponsors. In addition, many of these employee benefit plans are subject to federal laws such as ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, and must be maintained accordingly. Continued compliance with these employee benefit plans’ rules is necessary, as even unintentional failures to comply can result in significant fines and penalties. Employee benefit plans in general also are increasingly the subject of protracted litigation, especially following significant plan design changes. Certain of the plans sponsored by the subsidiaries of US Airways Group have undergone several changes in connection with the recent bankruptcy cases. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. Because our common stock began trading on the NYSE on September 27, 2005, there is only a limited trading history for our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • movements in fuel prices; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • general market conditions. Substantial sales of our common stock after the merger could cause our stock price to fall. Upon completion of all of the merger related equity transactions, we had approximately 77.1 million shares of common stock outstanding, and as of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 81.7 million shares of common stock outstanding. Each of the new equity investors entered into a stockholders 24 Table of Contents agreement that prohibits the equity investors’ sale of our common stock prior to the date that is six months after September 27, 2005, or March 27, 2006. The stockholders agreements generally provide that the equity investors will not sell, assign, transfer or pledge our common stock or any securities exercisable for or convertible into our common stock owned by them, subject to limited exceptions. Approximately 44.0 million shares, or 54% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, owned by the equity investors will be eligible for resale after the expiration of the lock-up period. In addition, under the terms of the PBGC settlement under US Airways Group’s plan of reorganization, the approximately 4.9 million shares of common stock issued to the PBGC could not be sold, assigned, transferred or pledged prior to the end of five months after September 27, 2005. This restriction expired on February 27, 2006. Sales of any of these shares into the market after the expiration of the respective lock-up periods could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding convertible notes, including US Airways Group’s 7% Senior Convertible Notes due 2020 or America West Holdings’ 7.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2009, will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Beginning January 18, 2005, the 7.5% notes became convertible into shares of our common stock, at the option of the holder. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. A small number of stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. A significant portion of US Airways Group’s common stock is beneficially owned by a relatively small number of equity investors. As a result, until these stockholders sell a substantial portion of their shares, they will have a greater percentage vote in matters that may be presented for a vote to stockholders than most other stockholders. This may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence votes on matters that may come before stockholders of US Airways Group. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group will make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of US Airways Group may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of US Airways Group and its stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the ability of US Airways Group’s board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; • a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; • a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders; • a requirement for the approval of holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors for the stockholders to amend the second amended and restated bylaws; and • super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of US Airways Group’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation. 25 Table of Contents These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of US Airways Group’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, US Airways Group is subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders, such as our new equity investors, whose acquisition of US Airways Group’s securities is approved by the board of directors prior to the investment under Section 203. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting and ownership by foreign owners. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of such shares would exceed 24.9% of the voting stock of our company. In addition, any attempt to transfer equity securities to a non-U.S. person in excess of 49.9% of our outstanding equity securities will be void and of no effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 