ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any one or a combination of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business We must raise substantial additional capital in a short period of time in order to remain in business. Although we have entered into various agreements with respect to the proposed recapitalization of the Company, the Company has not been in compliance with the Consent Order nor its capital directive since March 2010. The financial condition of the bank and the Company has deteriorated significantly since that time and on December 31, 2010, the Company’s shareholders’ equity totaled only $66.1 million and the Company’s net tangible equity per common share and book value per common share were negative. It is essential that we close the Private Placement (or another similar financing) in a short period of time. If we fail to do so, it is possible that our capital would continue to deteriorate and we would suffer additional regulatory actions, including a potential federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, or a requirement that we sell or transfer our assets or take other action which would likely result in a complete loss of the value of CPF’s ownership interest in the bank and a complete loss of the value of the shares held by our shareholders. More information with respect to the status of the recapitalization and the terms and provisions of the agreements entered into in connection therewith is contained in the “Business – General” section of this filing. 21 We are subject to a number of requirements and prohibitions under regulatory orders imposed on us and we cannot assure you whether or when such orders will be lifted. The bank has been subject to the Consent Order since December 9, 2009, which requires it to improve its capital position, asset quality, liquidity and management oversight, among other matters. The bank was required to increase its Tier 1 capital to maintain a minimum leverage capital ratio and total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and 12%, respectively, by March 31, 2010. In addition, the Consent Order requires the bank to, among other things, maintain an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses at all times and systematically reduce the amount of commercial real estate loans, particularly land development and construction loans. In addition, the Company is subject to the FRB Agreement with the FRBSF and DFI dated July 2, 2010, which supersedes in its entirety the Memorandum of Understanding that the Company entered into on April 1, 2009 with the FRBSF and DFI. Among other matters, the FRB Agreement provides that unless we receive the consent of the FRBSF and DFI, we cannot: (i) pay dividends; (ii) receive dividends or payments representing a reduction in capital from the bank; (iii) directly or through our non-bank subsidiaries make any payments on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities; (iv) directly or through any non-bank subsidiaries incur, increase or guarantee any debt; or (v) purchase or redeem any shares of our stock. The FRB Agreement requires that the Board of Directors fully utilize the Company’s financial and managerial resources to ensure that the bank complies with th e Consent Order. We were also required to submit to the FRBSF an acceptable capital plan and cash flow projection. Besides the Consent Order and the FRB Agreement, we also expect to be subject to the MOU by the end of February 2011. As of the date of this filing, we were not in compliance with a number of requirements of the Consent Order, including the leverage and total risk-based capital ratio requirements of 10.0% and 12.0%, respectively. Although we expect to be in compliance with these capital ratio requirements assuming the completion of the Private Placement, the Private Placement remains subject to certain closing conditions, including receipt of requisite regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. We must raise the additional capital contemplated by the Private Placement in a short period of time in order to remain in business. In addition, we will not be in compliance with a number of other requirements in the Consent Order even assuming the Private Placement is completed. Completion of the Private Placement is subject to various closing conditions which may not be satisfied. Completion of the Private Placement is subject to various conditions, certain of which are outside of our control, and may not be satisfied. The remaining closing conditions to the Private Placement include receipt of requisite regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We cannot assure you that all conditions will be satisfied timely or at all. If we fail to consummate the Private Placement, we may not be able to continue as a going concern, we may file for bankruptcy and the bank may be placed into FDIC receivership. 22 We have incurred significant losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the near term or at all. We have incurred significant losses over the past few years, including net losses of $251.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, $313.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $138.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to credit costs, including a significant provision for loan and lease losses. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit exposure, at December 31, 2010, we still had $302.8 million in nonperforming assets and it is possible that we will continue to incur elevated credit costs over the near term, which would adversely impact our overall financial performance and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will return to profitability in the near term or at all even if we complete our recapitalization. If the Private Placement and the TARP Exchange are completed, our existing shareholders’ interests will be substantially diluted and the market price of our common stock may decrease to a level at or below the purchase price in the Private Placement. As described above, we expect to complete the Private Placement and the TARP Exchange, assuming the satisfaction of the remaining conditions. Because a large number of common shares is contemplated to be issued in the Private Placement and the TARP Exchange at a price that is significantly less than the recent trading price of our common shares, the ownership interest of existing shareholders and our earnings per share will be substantially diluted and the market price of our common stock may decrease to a level at or below the purchase price in the Private Placement. Assuming the completion of the Private Placement and TARP Exchange, subsequent resales of our common shares in the public market may cause the market price of our common shares to fall. We plan to issue a large number of common shares to the investors in the Private Placement and to the Treasury in the TARP Exchange. Carlyle and Anchorage will have certain registration rights with respect to the common shares held by them following a one-year lock-up period provided in their respective investment agreements. The other investors will have certain registration rights with respect to the common shares purchased by them in the Private Placement until six months following the completion of the Private Placement. In addition, in connection with the planned TARP Exchange, we will provide the Treasury with certain registration rights with respect to the common shares issued to the Treasury in the TARP Exchange. The registration rights for Carlyle and Anchorage will allow them to sell their common shares without compliance with the volume and manner of sale limitations under Rule 144 promulgated u nder the Securities Act and the registration rights for the other investors allow them to sell their common shares before their holding period under Rule 144 expires. The market value of our common shares could decline as a result of sales by the investors from time to time of a substantial amount of the common shares held by them. We may suffer substantial losses due to our agreements to indemnify investors in the Private Placement against a broad range of potential claims. In our agreements with the investors in the Private Placement, we agreed to indemnify the investors for a broad range of claims, including losses resulting from the inaccuracy or breach of representations or warranties made by us in such agreements and the breach by us to perform our covenants contained in such agreements, even if the Private Placement is not completed. While these indemnities are subject to various limitations, if claims were successfully brought against us, it could potentially result in significant losses for the Company. Assuming the completion of the Private Placement, Carlyle and Anchorage will become substantial holders of our common shares. Assuming the completion of the Private Placement, Carlyle and Anchorage will each become holders of approximately 24% of our outstanding common shares and each will have a representative and an observer on our and the bank’s Board of Directors. Although Carlyle and Anchorage each entered into certain passivity agreements with the FRB in connection with their proposed investments in us, Carlyle and Anchorage each will have substantial influence over our corporate policy and business strategy. In addition, Carlyle and Anchorage will each have pre-emptive rights to maintain their percentage ownership of our common shares in the event of certain issuances of securities by us. In pursuing their economic interests, Carlyle and Anchorage may have interests that are different from the interests of our other shareholders. 23 Even if the Private Placement is completed, the proceeds received may not be sufficient to satisfy our capital and liquidity needs in the future or to satisfy changing regulatory requirements, and we may need to raise additional capital. Assuming the Private Placement is completed, the proceeds will be used to strengthen our capital base as required by the Consent Order. As mentioned above, our capital ratios are expected to exceed the levels required by the Consent Order upon completion of the Private Placement and is expected to be at “well-capitalized” levels for regulatory purposes. However, despite the anticipated increase in our capital base, if economic conditions continue to be difficult or worsen or fail to improve in a timely manner, or if our operations or financial condition continues to deteriorate or fails to improve, particularly in the residential and commercial real estate markets where our business is located, we may need to raise additional capital. Factors affecting whether we would need to raise additional capital include, among others, additional provisions for loan and lease losses and loan charge-offs, changing requirements of regulators and other risks discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If we had to raise additional capital, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so in the amounts required and in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, any additional capital raised may be significantly dilutive to our existing shareholders and may result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our common shares. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are subject to the Consent Order and FRB Agreement which impose a number of requirements as described above and will be subject to the MOU by the end of February 2011. Although we expect to be in compliance with the capital ratio requirements of the Consent Order assuming the completion of the Private Placement, the Private Placement remains subject to certain closing conditions, including receipt of requisite regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. Furthermore, even if we do successfully complete the Private Placement, there is no assurance that the proceeds received from the Private Placement will be sufficient to satisfy our future capital and liquidity needs as described above. In addition, we will not be in compliance with a number of other requirements in the Consent Order even assuming the Private Placement is completed. Accordingly, the potential uncertainty that exists as to our ab ility to meet existing or future regulatory requirements raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. In addition, our customers, employees, vendors, correspondent institutions, and others with whom we do business may react negatively to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This negative reaction may lead to heightened concerns regarding our financial condition that could result in a significant loss in deposits and customer relationships, key employees, vendor relationships and our ability to do business with correspondent institutions upon which we rely. 24 CPF has limited cash resources. As of December 31, 2010, on a stand alone basis, CPF had approximately $6.0 million of cash available to meet its ongoing obligations. Assuming CPF is able to control its operating expenditures within normal levels, it continues to defer payments on its trust preferred securities and dividends on its TARP Preferred Stock, and there are no unanticipated cash requirements, we believe CPF would be able to meet its normally expected expense obligations through the first half of 2011. Assuming the Private Placement is completed, CPF will retain a portion of the proceeds to fund its ongoing obligations. However, if we do not timely complete the Private Placement and TARP Exchange, CPF will require additional funds in order to continue meeting its financial obligations past the first half of 2011. While we expect the Private Placement and the TARP Exchange to be completed in February 2011, there is no assura nce that we will be able to satisfy all of the remaining closing conditions in the investment agreements and the exchange agreement timely. Sources of funds that may be available to CPF include the sale of equity securities or borrowing. Given the Company’s efforts to obtain additional capital, in the short term, the sale of equity securities other than through a recapitalization may not be practical. It is unclear whether CPF may be able to borrow funds from third parties without credit support from the bank, which may not be available. CPF cannot incur additional indebtedness without the advance approval of the FRBSF and DFI. If CPF is not able to raise additional capital to meet its cash needs, management will seek approval from its regulators to obtain temporary financial support from the bank. No agreement as to any such support has yet been obtained. Accordingly, there are no assurances that CPF will be able to obtain funding from the issuance of equity or debt to allow it to continue to meet its financial obligations when its current available cash is depleted. If CPF cannot obtain funds to meet its obligations, it would be required to curtail its operations, including its efforts to obtain additional capital, and may have to consider liquidation, a sale of the bank, or other actions to deal with its obligations. If this were to occur, it is likely that the shareholders of CPF would suffer a loss of their entire investment in the Company. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted. We have generated significant net operating losses (“NOLs”) as a result of our recent losses. We generally are able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years. However, our ability to utilize the NOLs is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 generally restricts the use of NOLs after an “ownership change.” An ownership change occurs if, among other things, the shareholders (or specified groups of shareholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of a corporation’s common stock or are otherwise treated as 5% shareholders under Section 382 and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of that corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these shareholders over a three-year rol ling period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carryforwards. This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of the corporation’s stock on the date of the ownership, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL carryforwards. We do not anticipate that our planned recapitalization, including the Private Placement, the TARP Exchange or the rights offering will cause an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382. In addition, in order to reduce the likelihood that future transactions in our common shares will result in an ownership change, on November 23, 2010, we adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, which provides an economic disincentive for any person or group to become an owner, for relevant tax purposes, of 4.99% or more of our common shares. To further protect our tax benefits, on January 26, 2011, our board approved the proposed Protective Charter Amendment which we intend to submit for shareholder approval at our annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 2011. However, we cannot ensure that our ability to use our NOLs to offset income will not become limited in the future. As a res ult, we could pay taxes earlier and in larger amounts than would be the case if our NOLs were available to reduce our federal income taxes without restriction. 25 Because of our participation in the TARP and under the terms of our exchange agreement with the Treasury, we are subject to restrictions on compensation paid to our executives, which may make it difficult to attract and retain key members of management. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP CPP, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury owns any debt or equity securities acquired pursuant to TARP. These standards generally apply to our five most highly compensated senior executive officers, including our Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and/or certain of these restrictions also apply up to the next 20 most highly compensated senior executives. The standards include, among other things: · ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; · a required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer and the next twenty most highly compensated employees based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate financial performance metric criteria; · a prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executive officers and the next five most highly compensated employees; · an agreement not to deduct for tax purposes annual compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive officer; and · limitations on bonuses and incentive compensation. We depend on the services of existing management to carry out our business strategy and our recovery plan which we began implementing in March 2010 to improve our financial health and capital ratios. In addition, our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain other key employees, in particular, a Chief Executive Officer, which is currently an open position. See “—We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people” below. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as ex ecutive officers. We are also obligated to comply with any subsequent amendments to these restrictions for so long as we remain subject to such restrictions. Our Hawaii and, to a lesser extent, California commercial real estate and construction loan operations have a considerable effect on our results of operations. The performance of our Hawaii and California commercial real estate and construction loans depends on a number of factors, including improvement of the real estate market in which we operate. As we have seen in the Hawaii and California construction and commercial real estate markets since the latter part of 2007, the strength of the real estate market and the results of our operations could continue to be negatively affected by the economic downturn. While we are no longer originating new loans out of our Mainland operations, we still have a sizable California loan portfolio and the performance of that portfolio continues to be subject to market conditions in California. Declines in the market for commercial property are causing commercial borrowers to suffer losses on their projects and they may be unable to repay their loans. Defaults of these loans or further deterioration in the credit worthiness of any of these borrowers would further negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Declines in housing prices and the supply of existing houses for sale are causing residential developers who are our borrowers to also suffer losses on their projects and encounter difficulty in repaying their loans. Since the third quarter of 2007, we have significantly increased our provision for loan and lease losses as a result of these challenging conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our provision for loan and lease losses amounted to $159.5 million, compared to $348.8 million in 2009 and $171.7 million in 2008, while our percentage of no nperforming assets to total loans and leases, loans held for sale and other real estate was 13.18% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 15.85% in 2009 and 3.52% in 2008. Credit costs were elevated through 2010 and we cannot assure you that we will have an adequate provision for loan and lease losses to cover future losses. If we suffer greater losses than we are projecting, our recovery plan and the ability to improve our position will be materially adversely affected. 26 Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry and continued economic slowdown in Hawaii or a worsening of current market conditions in general would result in additional adverse effects on us. The U.S. economy entered into one of the longest economic recessions to have occurred since the Great Depression of the 1930’s in December 2007. During this time, the global and U.S. economies experienced a protracted slowdown in business activity as a result of disruptions in the financial system, including a lack of confidence in the worldwide credit markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market, along with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial mark ets and the economy resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. The market turmoil and tightening of credit consequently led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resultant economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Although general economic trends and market conditions have since stabilized to some degree, a continued economic slowdown in Hawaii or a worsening of current market conditions in general would likely result in additional adverse effects on us, including: (i) loan delinquencies may continue to increase; (ii) problem assets and foreclosures may continue to increase leading to more loan charge-offs; (iii) demand for our products and services may decline; (iv) low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may continue to decrease; and (v) collateral for loans made by us, especially involving real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. A large number of our commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios both in Hawaii and on the mainland contributed to substantial credit losses and has significantly weakened our financial condition. Our previous focus on these higher yielding assets allowed us to realize greater returns in years when the economy was performing well. However, because there are inherent risks associated with this type of lending, our credit risk profile was significantly higher than other financial institutions with more balanced asset mixes. As a result, our high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans, combined with the aforementioned deterioration in these sectors caused by the economic downturn, had and may continue to have a significantly more adverse impact on our operating results than many other banks across the nation. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit risk ex posure over the past several quarters, we still had $302.8 million in nonperforming assets at December 31, 2010. If our borrowers continue to experience financial difficulty, or if property values securing our real estate loans decline further, we will continue to incur elevated credit costs due to the composition of our loan portfolio even if market conditions stabilize or improve. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral or guarantees securing these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our provision for loan and lease losses amounted to $159.5 million, compared to $348.8 million in 2009 and $171.7 million in 2008. Our current allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may experience significant loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management, makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are regularly reevaluated and are based in part on: 27 · current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; · an evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance for loan and lease losses; · results of examinations of our loan portfolios by regulatory agencies; and · management’s internal review of the loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance for loan and lease losses, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions, as well as the requirements of the Consent Order and other regulator input. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient. Because of the uncertainty in the economy, volatility in the credit and real estate markets, including specifically, the deterioration in the Hawaii and California real estate markets and our high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans, we made significant adjustments to our allowance for loan and lease losses in 2008, 2009 and 2010 and may need to make additional adjustments in the future. In addition, third parties, including our federal and state regulators, periodically evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for loan and lease losses and may communicate with us concerning the methodology or judgments that we have raised in determining the allowance for loan and lease losses. As a result of this input, we may be required to assign different grades to specific credits, increase our provision for loan and lease losses, and/or recognize further loan charge-offs. Specifically, the Consent Order requires the bank to maintain an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses at all times. To ensure that we maintain an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses at all times in accordance with the Consent Order, we may be required to record additional adjustments based on information available to our regulators at the time of their examinations. Our ability to maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity and required capital levels may be negatively impacted by the current economic environment which may, among other things, impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investments or loans, and other sources would have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include concerns regarding the continued deterioration in our financial condition, our ability to continue as a going concern, increased regulatory actions against us and a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans or deposits are concentrated. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the credit markets. The management of liquidity risk is critical to the management of our business and our ability to service our customer base. In managing our balance sheet, our primary source of funding is customer deposits. Our ability to continue to attract these deposits and other funding sources is subject to variability based upon a number of factors including volume and volatility in the securities’ markets, our financial condition, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. The availability and level of deposits and other funding sources is highly dependent upon the perception of the liquidity and creditworthiness of the financial institution, which perception can change quickly in response to market conditions or circumstances unique to a particular company. Concerns about our past and future financial condition, our ability to continue as a going concern or concerns about our credit exposure to other persons could adversely impact our sources of liquidity, financial position, including regulatory capital ratios, results of operations and our business prospects. 28 If the level of deposits were to materially decrease, we would have to raise additional funds by increasing the interest that we pay on certificates of deposits or other depository accounts, seek other debt or equity financing or draw upon our available lines of credit. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, and to a lesser extent, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”) and the Federal Reserve discount window, to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our line of credit with the FHLB serves as our primary outside source of liquidity. By virtue of the Consent Order, the bank is in default under its arrangement with the FHLB. Although the bank has not received any notice, the FHLB has the right to call all outstanding borrowings under this arrangement and is not obligated to make future advances. Our maximum borrowing term is limited to two years. The Federal Reserve discount window also serves as an additional outside source of liquidity. Borrowings under this arrangement are through the Federal Reserve’s secondary facility and are subject to providing additional information regarding the financial condition of the bank and reasons for the borrowing. The duration of borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window are generally for a very short period, usually overnight. In the event that these outside sources of liquidity become unavailable to us, we will need to seek additional sources of liquidity, including selling assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell assets at a level to allow us to repay borrowings or meet our liquidity needs. In February 2009, our collateral arrangement with the FHLB converted from a blanket pledge arrangement to a physical possession arrangement whereby we are required to deliver certain original loan documents to the FHLB for the collateral securing our advances. In December 2010, the FHLB expanded the physical possession arrangement to require copies of all loan documents for the collateral securing advances. As a result, should the FHLB elect to call any of our outstanding borrowings, they would maintain possession of the collateral we pledged and could assume legal ownership of the assets in the event we are unable to meet our obligations. We constantly monitor our activities with respect to liquidity and evaluate closely our utilization of our cash assets; however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or the cost of funds to us may not be materially and adversely impacted as a result of economic, market, or operational considerations that we may not be able to control. In addition, the bank’s ability to accept brokered deposits has been restricted, and the interest rates we may pay are constrained, both of which could impact our liquidity. In addition to the Consent Order, the FRB Agreement and the MOU, governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may further impair our operations or restrict our growth. In addition to the requirements of the Consent Order, the FRB Agreement and the contemplated MOU, we are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. 29 There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the FRBSF, FDIC and DFI and may be subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which was recently created pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. If we fail to comply with federal and state bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth , impose fines on us or ultimately cease our operations. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: · the capital that must be maintained; · the kinds of activities that can be engaged in; · the kinds and amounts of investments that can be made; · the locations of offices; · insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance; and · how much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. In particular, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States. While the full effects of the legislation on us cannot yet be determined, it could result in higher compliance and other costs, reduced revenues and higher capital and liquidity requirements, among other things, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and bank holding companies for unsafe or unsound practices in the conduct of their businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the authority. Possible enforcement actions against us could include a federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, the issuance of additional orders that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. See the sections captioned “Legislative Initiatives” and “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business for further discussion of these regulations. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people. There are a limited number of qualified persons in Hawaii with the knowledge and experience required to successfully implement our recovery plan. The more senior the executive, the more difficult it is to locate suitable candidates in the local market. Accordingly, in many circumstances, it is necessary for us to recruit potential candidates from the mainland. At this time, new senior executives are required to be approved by our regulators. Suitable candidates for positions may decline to consider employment with the Company given its financial condition and the current regulatory environment, particularly since in some circumstances, this would require that the employee relocate from the mainland to Hawaii, where other employment opportunities in the banking industry may be limited. In addition, it may be difficult for us to of fer compensation packages that would be sufficient to convince candidates that are acceptable to our regulators and meet our requirements to agree to become our employee and/or relocate. Our financial condition and the existing uncertainties may result in existing employees seeking positions at other companies where these issues are not present. The unexpected loss of services of other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of a loss of their skills, knowledge of our market and years of industry experience. If we are not able to promptly recruit qualified personnel, which we require to conduct our operations, our business and our ability to successfully implement our recovery plan could be adversely affected. 30 Currently, we are operating without a named Chief Executive Officer and Chief Credit Officer and are unable to determine when, or if, we will be able to fill these positions. Mr. Dean is currently serving as the acting Chief Executive Officer and Chief Credit Officer for the Company. The recent turnover in key positions in our finance and credit departments could increase the risk that our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accurately accumulated by management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met and depend on the sufficiency of the personnel involved in those functions. There has been recent turnover in key positions in our finance and credit departments as part of the implementation of our recovery plan. As further discussed in “Part I, Item 1. Business,” we have also experienced significant turnover on our executive managemen t team during fiscal 2010, including the appointments of a new Executive Chairman of the Board in June 2010 and a new Chief Financial Officer in August 2010. Also, as referred to above, we are currently operating without a named Chief Credit Officer. The recent changes to our executive management team, combined with the turnover within our finance and credit departments, could increase the risk that our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. A large percentage of our real estate loans are construction loans which involve the additional risk that a project may not be completed, increasing the risk of loss. Approximately 17% of our real estate loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 was comprised of construction loans. Seventy-three percent of these construction loans were in Hawaii while 27% were located on the mainland. Many of our construction loans are reliant upon sponsors and/or guarantors for additional support. Repayment of construction loans is dependent upon the successful completion of the construction project, on time and within budget, and the successful sale of a completed project or the conversion of the construction loan into a term loan. If a borrower is unable to complete a construction project or if the marketability or value of the completed development is impaired, proceeds from the sale of the subject property may be insufficient to repay the loan. In recent periods, our construction loan portfolio has been significantly impacted by an increase in loan delinquencies and defaults, as well as declining collateral values resulting from the downturn in the commercial real estate markets in Hawaii and California and the significant negative impact this had on our borrowers, guarantors, and many of the projects securing our construction loans. Even if economic conditions stabilize or improve, our construction loan portfolio may continue to experience material credit losses due to our high concentration of loans with exposure to this sector, combined with the continuing uncertainty surrounding many of the projects securing our existing construction loans and the diminished capacity of many of our construction borrowers and guarantors. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and continued deterioration in the real estate market may result in additional losses and adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations have been, and in future periods, will continue to be significantly impacted by the economy in Hawaii, and to a lesser extent, other markets we are exposed to, including California. 31 Approximately 84% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 was comprised of loans primarily collateralized by real estate, with the majority of these loans concentrated in Hawaii. Deterioration of the economic environment in Hawaii, California or other markets we are exposed to, including a continued decline or worsening declines in the real estate market and single-family home resales or a material external shock, may significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. Over the past three years, material declines in the value of the real estate assets securing many of our commercial real estate loans has led to significant credit losses in this portfolio. As a result of our particularly high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans, the risk within our portfolio is higher than many financial institutions and, as a result, our por tfolio had been and remains particularly susceptible to significant credit losses during economic downturns and adverse changes in the real estate market. Because of our high concentration of loans secured by real estate (the majority of which were originated several years ago), it is possible that we will continue to experience elevated levels of credit losses and higher Provisions even if the overall real estate market stabilizes or improves due to the continuing uncertainty surrounding many of the specific real estate assets securing our loans and the weakened financial condition of many of our commercial real estate borrowers and guarantors. The FHLB has entered into a consent order with the Federal Housing Finance Agency. If our investment in the FHLB is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and stockholder’s equity could decrease. We own stock in the FHLB. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB stock was $48.8 million as of December 31, 2010. On October 25, 2010, the FHLB entered into a consent order with the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the “FHFA”), which requires the FHLB to take certain specified actions related to its business and operations. Following the filing of the FHLB’s second quarter 2011 quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC, and once the FHLB reaches and maintains certain thresholds, the bank may begin repurchasing member capital stock at par. Further, the FHLB may again be in position to redeem certain capital stock from members and begin paying dividends once the FHLB: · achieves and maintains certain other financial and operational metrics; · remediates certain concerns regarding its oversight and management, asset improvement program, capital adequacy and retained earnings, risk management, compensation practices, examination findings, and information technology; and · returns to a “safe and sound” condition as determined by the FHFA. Any stock repurchases, redemptions and dividend payments will be subject to FHFA approval. There continues to be a risk that the FHLB may not be permitted to redeem capital stock from members and begin paying dividends in the future, and that our investment in FHLB stock could be impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, our earnings and stockholders’ equity would be negatively impacted. 32 Our business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us and our earnings may be negatively affected. In light of our current volume and mix of inter est-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, our interest rate margin could be expected to increase during periods of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during periods of falling interest rates. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including the following: · inflation; · recession; · changes in unemployment; · the money supply; · international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; and · governmental actions. Our asset/liability management strategy may not be able to control our risk from changes in market interest rates and it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may reposition our assets and liabilities to reduce our net interest income volatility. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks conduct significant business in the market areas in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for t hose products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; · the ability to expand our market position; 33 · the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to its competitors; · customer satisfaction with our level of service; and · industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of our financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern may also affect our competitiveness. Customers may decide not to do business with the bank due to its financial condition. In addition, we have and continue to face additional regulatory restrictions that our competitors may not be subject to, including reducing our commercial real estate loan portfolio, improving the overall risk profile of the Company and restrictions on the amount of interest we can pay on deposit accounts, which could adversely impact our ability to compete and attract and retain customers. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to deposits at our bank or seek higher yielding deposits causing us to incur increased funding costs. We are facing increasing deposit-pricing pressures. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments as providing superior expected returns or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for the bank’s customers to transfer funds into alternative investments including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When the bank’s customers move money out of bank deposits in fa vor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. The bank’s financial condition compared to other top Hawaiian financial institutions, as well as our ability to continue as a going concern, may affect our customer’s decisions to keep their deposit accounts with us. The fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. It also can materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies and our regulatory environment generally are beyond our control, and we are unable to predict what changes may occur or the manner in which any future changes may affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. 34 Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will decrease our future earnings. In May of 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the DIF. The assessment, which was payable on September 30, 2009, is in addition to a planned increase in premiums and a change in the way regular premiums are assessed, which the FDIC previously approved. The cost of the special assessment was equal to five basis points of the bank’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009 and resulted in a charge of approximately $2.5 million. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC issued new assessment regulations that require FDIC-insured institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012; however certain financial institutions, including the bank, were exempted from the new prepayment regulations and will continue to pay their risk-based assessments on a quarterly basis. The FDIC also adopted a uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates effective on January 1, 2011, however in October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan pursuant to which the FDIC will forego the uniform three-basis point increase in initial assessment rates scheduled to take place on January 1, 2011 and maintain the current schedule of assessment rates for all depository institutions. The recent assessment increases and special assessment discussed above, along with any future assessment increases and/or special assessments applicable to the bank, may continue to increase our expenses and adversely impact our earnings. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we have to offer higher rates of interest then we currently offer on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The market for certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio was impacted by the economic downturn over the past three years. Coupled with uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral, this has caused discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. We value some of our investments using cash flow and valuation models which include certain subjective estimates that we believe reflect the estimates a purchaser of such securities would use if such a transaction were to occur. The volatile market may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairment of these as sets that may result in accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements and capital ratios. 35 Our business could be adversely affected by unfavorable actions from rating agencies. Ratings assigned by ratings agencies to us, our affiliates or our securities may impact the decision of certain customers, in particular, institutions, to do business with us. A rating downgrade or a negative rating could adversely affect our deposits and our business relationships. On March 18, 2010, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long-term Issuer Default Rating of the Company and the bank to CC from CCC. On November 9, 2010, Fitch Ratings put the ratings of the Company and the bank on Rating Watch Evolving following the Company’s announcement of its $325 million capital raising initiative. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Because we are a holding company with no significant operations other than our bank, we depend upon dividends from our bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. In addition to obtaining approval from the FDIC and DFI, Hawaii law only permits the bank to pay dividends out of retained earnings. Given that the bank had an accumulated deficit of $483.9 million at December 31, 2010, the bank is prohibited from paying any dividends until this deficit is eliminated. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that the bank will be permitted to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Please see “— CPF has limited cash resources” above for risks on our holding company liquidity while CPF does not have access to dividends from the bank. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a ma terial adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 36 We are subject to various legal claims and litigation. From time to time, customers and others that we do business with make claims and take legal action against us for various business occurrences, including the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Regardless of whether these claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Even if these claims and legal actions do not result in a financial liability or reputational damage, defending these claims and actions have result ed in, and will continue to result in, increased legal and professional services costs, which adds to our noninterest expense and negatively impacts our operating results. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common shares has declined significantly and is volatile. The trading price of our common shares has declined significantly since February 2007 when our stock price traded above $800.00 per share (after giving effect to the 1-for-20 reverse stock split). The trading price of our common shares may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · failure to comply with all of the requirements of the Consent Order, the FRB Agreement and the contemplated MOU, and the possibility of resulting action by the regulators; · the completion or the failure to complete the Private Placement; · the per share purchase price in the Private Placement; · further deterioration of asset quality; · the incurrence of continuing losses; · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · changes in revenue or earnings/losses estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; · failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings/losses estimates; · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · actions by institutional shareholders; · additions or departures of key personnel; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · future sales of our common shares, including sales of our common shares in short sale transactions; 37 · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; · proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; · anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, have experienced significant volatility over the past few years. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. Accordingly, the common shares that you purchase may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. Volatility in the market price of our common shares may prevent individual shareholders from being able to sell their shares when they want or at prices they find attractive. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Our common shares are equity and therefore are subordinate to our subsidiaries’ indebtedness and preferred stock. Our common shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, common shares will rank junior to all current and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in the event of our liquidation. We may, and the bank and our other subsidiaries may also, incur additional indebtedness from time to time and may increase our aggregate level of outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had $105.0 million in face amount of trust preferred securities outstanding and accrued and unpaid dividends thereon of $5.1 million. Additionally, holders of common shares are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of our preferred stock that may be outstanding from time to time. Our Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any a ction on the part of our stockholders. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common shares with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common shares, then the rights of holders of our common shares or the market price of our common shares could be adversely affected. There is a limited trading market for our common shares and as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. Although our common shares are listed for trading on the NYSE, the volume of trading in our common shares is lower than many other companies listed on the NYSE. A public trading market with depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Our common shares are not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment. An investment in our common shares is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 38 Certifications We have filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Last year, we submitted to the NYSE on June 23, 2010 our annual CEO certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards required by NYSE Rule 303A.12. This year, we intend to submit to the NYSE our annual CEO certification within 30 days of the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders, which is scheduled for April 27, 2011. 