ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the principal risks that we believe are material to our business and should be considered by our security holders. We operate in a continually changing business environment and, therefore, new risks emerge from time to time. This section contains forward-looking statements. For an explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements, see "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Relating to Our Business General economic conditions throughout the world may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. General economic conditions and the global recession may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. The current negative economic conditions affect our guests' levels of discretionary spending. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy or us, a continued economic slowdown or further deterioration in the economy, could adversely affect the frequency with which our guests choose to visit our theme parks and the amount that our guests spend on our products when they visit. This could lead to a decrease in our revenues, operating income and cash flows. Additionally, general economic conditions throughout the world could impact our ability to obtain supplies, services and credit as well as the ability of third parties to meet their obligations to us, including, for example, payment of claims by our insurance carriers and/or the funding of our lines of credit. Our growth strategy may not achieve the anticipated results. Our future success will depend on our ability to grow our business, including through capital investments to improve existing parks, rides, attractions and shows, as well as in-park services and product offerings. Our growth and innovation strategies require significant commitments of management resources and capital investments and may not grow our revenues at the rate we expect or at all. As a result, we may not be able to recover the costs incurred in developing our new projects and 17 Table of Contents initiatives or to realize their intended or projected benefits, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not obtain the desired improvements in operational and financial performance established in our aspirational goals, including those related to Project 500. From time to time we establish aspirational goals for our operational and financial performance, including the "Project 500" aspirational goal established in mid-2011 to achieve Modified EBITDA of $500 million by 2015. We may seek to reach our aspirational goals through programs targeted at our key revenue drivers, marketing programs, pricing programs, operational changes and process improvements that are intended to increase revenue, reduce costs and improve our operational and financial performance. There is no assurance that these programs, changes and improvements will be successful or that we will achieve our aspirational goals at all or in the timeframe in which we seek to achieve them. The theme park industry competes with numerous entertainment alternatives and such competition may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our parks compete with other theme, water and amusement parks and with other types of recreational facilities and forms of entertainment, including movies, home entertainment options, sports attractions and vacation travel. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation and leisure time industries generally, such as general economic conditions, including relative fuel prices, and changes in consumer spending habits. The principal competitive factors of a park include location, price, the uniqueness and perceived quality of the rides and attractions, the atmosphere and cleanliness of the park and the quality of its food and entertainment. If we are unable to compete effectively against entertainment alternatives or on the basis of principal competitive factors of the park, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by changes in public and consumer tastes. The success of our parks depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that can change in often unpredictable ways and on our ability to ensure that our parks meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. We carry out research and analysis before acquiring new parks or opening new rides or attractions and often invest substantial amounts before we learn the extent to which these new parks and new rides or attractions will earn consumer acceptance. If visitor volumes at our parks were to decline significantly or if new rides and entertainment offerings at our parks do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, revenues may decline. Our results of operations may also be adversely affected if we fail to retain long term customer loyalty or provide satisfactory customer service. Adverse weather conditions—bad weather can adversely impact attendance at our parks. Because most of the attractions at our theme parks are outdoors, attendance at our parks is adversely affected by bad weather and forecasts of bad weather. The effects of bad weather on attendance can be more pronounced at our water parks. Bad weather and forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions can reduce the number of people who come to our parks, which negatively affects our revenues. We believe that our operating results in certain years were adversely affected by abnormally hot, cold and/or wet weather in a number of our major U.S. markets. In addition, since a number of our parks are geographically concentrated in the eastern portion of the United States, a weather pattern that affects that area could adversely affect a number of our parks. Also, bad weather and forecasts of bad weather on weekend days have greater negative impact than on weekdays because weekend days are typically peak days for attendance at our parks. 18 Table of Contents Our operations are seasonal. Our operations are seasonal. Approximately 80% of our annual park attendance and revenue occurs during the second and third calendar quarters of each year. As a result, when conditions or events described in the above risk factors occur during the operating season, particularly during the peak months of July and August, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be mitigated. Accordingly, such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, most of our expenses for maintenance and costs of adding new attractions are incurred when the parks are closed in the mid to late autumn and winter months. For this reason, a sequential quarter-to-quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. Local conditions, events, natural disasters, disturbances, contagious diseases and terrorist activities can adversely impact park attendance. Lower attendance at our parks may be caused by various local conditions, events, weather, contagious diseases, or natural disasters. In addition, since some of our parks are near major urban areas and appeal to teenagers and young adults, there may be disturbances at one or more parks which could negatively affect our image. This may result in a decrease in attendance at the affected parks. Our business and financial results were adversely impacted by the terrorist activities occurring in the United States on September 11, 2001. Terrorist alerts and threats of future terrorist activities may adversely affect attendance at our parks. We cannot predict what effect any further terrorist activities that may occur in the future may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is a risk of accidents occurring at our parks or competing parks which may reduce attendance and negatively impact our operations. Our brand and our reputation are among our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain customers depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of the Company, the quality and safety of our parks and services and our corporate and management integrity. While we carefully maintain the safety of our rides, there are inherent risks involved with these attractions. An accident or an injury (including water-borne illnesses on water rides) at any of our parks or at parks operated by our competitors, particularly accidents or injuries involving the safety of guests and employees, and the media coverage thereof, could negatively impact our brand or reputation, reduce attendance at our parks, cause a decrease in revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. If any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. Our current insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage in the event we are found liable in connection with such an incident. In addition, the majority of our current insurance policies expire on December 31, 2013. We cannot predict the level of the premiums that we may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any self-insurance retention applicable to any subsequent insurance coverage, the level of aggregate coverage available or the availability of coverage for specific risks. If we become subject to damages that cannot by law be insured against, such as punitive damages or certain intentional misconduct by employees, there may be a material adverse effect on our operations. 19 Table of Contents If we are not able to fund capital expenditures and invest in future attractions and projects in our parks, or unanticipated construction delays in completing such projects, or significant ride downtime, occur, these events could adversely affect our revenues. A principal competitive factor for a theme park is the uniqueness and perceived quality of its rides and attractions. Accordingly, the regular addition of new rides and attractions is important, and a key element for our revenue growth is strategic capital spending on new rides and attractions. Our ability to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and to raise capital from third parties. We cannot assure that our operations will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such costs, or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing on adequate terms, or at all, which could cause us to delay or abandon certain projects or plans. In addition, any construction delays or ride downtime can adversely affect our attendance and our ability to realize revenue growth. Our leases contain default provisions that, if enforced or exercised by the landlord, could significantly impact our operations at those parks. Certain of our leases permit the landlord to terminate the lease if there is a default under the lease, including, for example, our failure to pay rent, utilities and applicable taxes in a timely fashion or to maintain certain insurance. If a landlord were to terminate its lease, it would halt our operations at that park and, depending on the size of the park, could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any disputes that may result from such a termination may be expensive to pursue and may divert money and management's attention from our other operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Product recalls, product liability claims and associated costs could adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition. We sell food, toys and other retail products, the sale of which involves legal and other risks. We may need to recall food products if they become contaminated, and we may need to recall toys, games or other retail merchandise if there is a design or product defect. Even though we are resellers of food and retail merchandise, we may be liable if the consumption or purchase of any of the products we sell causes illness or injury. A recall could result in losses due to the cost of the recall, the destruction of product and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. A significant food or retail product recall could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation and loss of consumer confidence in our parks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the integrity of internal or guest data could expose us to data loss, litigation and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed. We collect and retain large volumes of internal and guest data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, for business purposes, including for transactional or target marketing and promotional purposes, and our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of our guest, employee and Company data is critical to our business and our guests and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment, as well as the requirements imposed on us by the credit card industry, governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continue to evolve. Maintaining compliance with applicable security and privacy regulations could adversely impact our ability to market our parks, products and services to our guests. In addition, such compliance measures as well as protecting our guests from consumer fraud could increase our operating costs. Furthermore, a penetrated or compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent 20 Table of Contents or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of guest, employee or Company data which could harm our reputation, disrupt our operations, or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits. Current or future litigation costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have been and continue to be involved in legal proceedings, claims and other litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, including to our management due to the increased time and resources required to respond to and address the litigation. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome of any particular matter or any future legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could harm our financial position and results of operations. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits in which we have been or are involved, see "Business—Legal Proceedings." We may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, which could be costly and result in the loss of intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of our business based on allegations of infringement or other violations of the intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims can divert the efforts of our personnel and are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial money damages or discontinue, modify, or rename certain products or services that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We may have to seek a license (if available on acceptable terms, or at all) to continue offering products and services, which may increase our operating expenses. Increased costs of labor, pension, post-retirement and medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our results of operations. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and employees. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 17.8% of our full-time and approximately 12.2% of our seasonal employees are subject to labor agreements with local chapters of national unions. These labor agreements expire in December 2013 (Six Flags Over Georgia), December 2014 (Six Flags Magic Mountain and one union at Six Flags Great Adventure), and January 2015 (Six Flags Over Texas, Six Flags St. Louis and the other union at Six Flags Great Adventure). The labor agreements for La Ronde expire in various years ranging from December 2010 (currently under negotiation) through December 2015. We could experience a material labor disruption, significantly increased labor costs or litigation relating to employment and/or wage and hour disputes. Increased labor costs, due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefit costs or otherwise, would adversely impact our operating expenses. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees to keep pace with our needs. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations may be adversely affected. With approximately 1,900 full-time employees, our results of operations are also substantially affected by costs of retirement and medical benefits. In recent years, we have experienced increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. At least some of these macro-economic factors may continue to put pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits. Changes to the U.S. healthcare 21 Table of Contents laws that become effective in 2014 may cause our healthcare costs to increase as well. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure, including any as a result of new legislation, could reduce the profitability of our businesses. Additionally, we contribute to multiple defined benefit multiemployer pension plans on behalf of our collectively bargained employees of Six Flags Great Adventure LLC. If we were to cease contributing to or otherwise incur a withdrawal from any such plans, we could be obligated to pay withdrawal liability assessments based on the underfunded status (if any) of such plans at the time of the withdrawal. The amount of any multiemployer pension plan underfunding can fluctuate from year to year, and thus there is a possibility that the amount of withdrawal liability that we could incur in the future could be material. We depend on a seasonal workforce, many of which are paid at minimum wage. Our park operations are dependent in part on a seasonal workforce, many of which are paid at minimum wage. We manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place for peak and low seasons. We cannot guarantee that material increases in the cost of securing our seasonal workforce will not occur in the future. Increased state or federal minimum wage requirements, seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our operations and our ownership of property subject us to environmental, health and safety regulations, which create uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. Our operations involve wastewater and stormwater discharges and air emissions, and as a result are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements. These requirements are administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the states and localities where our parks are located (and can also often be enforced through citizen suit provisions), and include the requirements of the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act. Our operations also involve maintaining underground and aboveground storage tanks, and managing and disposing of hazardous substances, chemicals and materials and are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these substances, chemicals and materials, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"). A portion of our capital expenditures budget is intended to ensure continued compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements. In the event of contamination or injury as a result of a release of or exposure to regulated materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. For example, pursuant to CERCLA, past and current owners and operators of facilities and persons arranging for disposal of hazardous substances may be held strictly, jointly and severally liable for costs to remediate releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of regulated materials may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate property properly, may impair our ability to use, transfer or obtain financing regarding our property. Our activities may be affected by new legislation or changes in existing environmental, health and safety laws. For example, the state or federal government having jurisdiction over a given area may enact legislation and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or applicable state entity may propose new regulations or change existing regulations that could require our parks to reduce certain emissions or discharges. Such action could require our parks to install costly equipment or increase operating expenses. We may be required to incur costs to remediate potential environmental hazards, mitigate environmental risks in the future, or comply with other environmental requirements. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract and retain key management and other key employees. Our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success and difficult to replace. We may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets, adversely affecting our business. We may not realize the benefits of acquisitions or other strategic initiatives. Our business strategy may include selective expansion, both domestically and internationally, through acquisitions of assets or other strategic initiatives, such as joint ventures, that allow us to profitably expand our business and leverage our brand. The success of our acquisitions depends on effective integration of acquired businesses and assets into our operations, which is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of an acquired businesses or assets. Additionally, any international transactions are subject to additional risks, including the impact of economic fluctuations in economies outside of the United States, difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, as well as political instability and lesser degree of legal protection in certain jurisdictions, currency exchange fluctuations and potentially adverse tax consequences of overseas operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Common Stock Our substantial monetary obligations require that a portion of our cash flow be used to pay interest and fund other obligations. We must satisfy the following obligations with respect to the Partnership Parks: •We must make annual distributions to our partners in the Partnership Parks, which will amount to approximately $66.3 million in 2013 (based on our ownership of units as of December 31, 2012, our share of the distribution will be approximately $28.8 million), with similar amounts (adjusted for changes in cost of living) payable in future years. •We must spend a minimum of approximately 6% of each of the Partnership Parks' annual revenues over specified periods for capital expenditures. •Each year we must offer to purchase all outstanding limited partnership units from our partners in the Partnership Parks. The remaining redeemable units of the Georgia limited partner and Texas limited partner, respectively, represent an ultimate redemption value for the limited partnership units of approximately $348.2 million at December 31, 2012. As we purchase additional units, we are entitled to a proportionate increase in our share of the minimum annual distributions. In future years, we may need to incur indebtedness under the 2011 Credit Facility to satisfy such unit purchase obligations. We expect to use cash flow from the operations at the Partnership Parks to satisfy all or part of our annual distribution and capital expenditure obligations with respect to these parks before we use any of our other funds. The two partnerships generated approximately $52.8 million of cash in 2012 from operating activities after deduction of capital expenditures and excluding the impact of short-term intercompany advances from or repayments to us. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had loans outstanding of $239.3 million to the partnerships that own the Partnership Parks, primarily to fund the acquisition of Six Flags White Water Atlanta, working capital and capital improvements. The obligations relating to SFOG continue until 2027 and those relating to SFOT continue until 2028. In the event of a default by us under the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement or of our obligations to our 23 Table of Contents partners in the Partnership Parks, these arrangements would permit Time Warner to take full control of both the entities that own limited partnership units and the managing partner. For more information regarding the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement, see "Business—Partnership Park Arrangements." The vast majority of our capital expenditures in 2013 and beyond will be made on a discretionary basis, although such expenditures are important to the parks' ability to sustain and grow revenues. We spent $98.5 million on capital expenditures for all of our continuing operations in the 2012 calendar year (net of property insurance recoveries). Our business plan includes targeted annual capital spending of approximately 9% of revenues. We may not, however, achieve our targeted rate of capital spending, which may cause us to spend in excess of, or less than, our anticipated rate. Our indebtedness under the 2011 Credit Facility and our other obligations could have important negative consequences to us and investors in our securities. These include the following: •We may not be able to satisfy all of our obligations, including, but not limited to, our obligations under the instruments governing our outstanding debt, which may cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration on other debt we may have incurred. •We could have difficulties obtaining necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, refinancing or other purposes. •We could have difficulties obtaining additional financing to fund our annual Partnership Park obligations if the amount of the 2011 Credit Facility is insufficient. •We will have to use a significant part of our cash flow to make payments on our debt and to satisfy the other obligations set forth above, which may reduce the capital available for operations and expansion. •Adverse economic or industry conditions may have more of a negative impact on us. We cannot be sure that cash generated from our parks will be as high as we expect or that our expenses will not be higher than we expect. Because a portion of our expenses are fixed in any given year, our operating cash flows are highly dependent on revenues, which are largely driven by attendance levels, in-park sales and sponsorship and licensing activity. A lower amount of cash generated from our parks or higher expenses than expected, when coupled with our debt obligations, could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. Holdings is a holding company whose primary assets consist of shares of stock or other equity interests in its subsidiaries, and Holdings conducts substantially all of its current operations through its subsidiaries. Almost all of its income is derived from its subsidiaries. Accordingly, Holdings is dependent on dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations. We had $629.2 million of cash and cash equivalents on a consolidated basis at December 31, 2012, of which $55.4 million was held at Holdings. The instruments governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that will impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur liens, make investments, sell assets, pay dividends, repurchase stock or engage in transactions with affiliates. In addition, the 2011 Credit Facility contains financial covenants that will require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio. These covenants may have a material impact on our operations. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the 2011 Credit Facility or the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under the applicable debt instrument. 24 Table of Contents Events beyond our control, such as weather and economic, financial and industry conditions, may affect our ability to continue meeting our financial covenant ratios under the 2011 Credit Facility. The need to comply with these financial covenants and restrictions could limit our ability to execute our strategy and expand our business or prevent us from borrowing more money when necessary. The 2011 Credit Facility and the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes also contain other events of default customary for financings of these types, including cross defaults to certain other indebtedness, cross acceleration to other indebtedness and certain change of control events. If an event of default were to occur, the lenders under the 2011 Credit Facility could declare outstanding borrowings under the 2011 Credit Facility immediately due and payable and the holders of senior unsecured notes could elect to declare the notes to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such indebtedness if it was accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under the 2011 Credit Facility could also result in an event of default under other indebtedness. We can make no assurances that we will be able to comply with these restrictions in the future or that our compliance would not cause us to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. We may be unable to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the 2011 Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes, depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, including the senior unsecured notes, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansion and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt, including the senior unsecured notes, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. If we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt service and other obligations, we cannot assure you that the terms of any such transaction will be satisfactory to us or if, or how soon, any such transaction could be completed. The market price of Holdings' common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in Holdings' common stock to decline. The ownership in Holdings' common stock is slightly concentrated, which might limit the liquidity of the market for Holdings' common stock. We can give no assurances about future liquidity in the trading market for Holdings' common stock. If there is limited liquidity in the trading market for Holdings' common stock, a sale of a large number of shares of Holdings' common stock could be adversely disruptive to the market price of Holdings' common stock. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of Holdings' common stock. These risks include those described or referred to in this "Risk Factors" section and in other documents incorporated herein by reference as well as, among other things: •Our operating and financial performance and prospects; 25 Table of Contents •Our ability to repay our debt; •Our access to financial and capital markets to refinance our debt or replace the existing credit facilities; •Investor perceptions of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; •Our dividend policy; •Our stock repurchase program; •Future sales of equity or equity-related securities; •Changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and •General financial, domestic, economic and other market conditions. Changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect the price of Holdings' common stock. Credit rating agencies continually review their ratings for the companies they follow including our company. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy the rating agencies evaluated our new credit facilities. Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's provided an initial corporate family rating of B2 and B, respectively. In November 2010, Moody's upgraded our credit rating to B1 and Standard & Poor's upgraded our credit rating to B+. In February 2011, Standard & Poor's increased our credit rating to BB-. In November 2011, Standard & Poor's updated our credit rating to BB. In connection with the issuance of the senior unsecured notes in December 2012, Moody's assigned a B3 rating to the notes, upgraded our credit facility rating to Ba2, and affirmed our B1 corporate family rating. Standard & Poor's assigned a BB- rating to the notes and affirmed our BB corporate credit rating. Both rating agencies have placed our ratings on "stable outlook." We cannot assure you that our ratings will not experience a negative change in the future. A negative change in our ratings or the perception that such a change might occur could adversely affect the market price of Holdings' common stock. Various factors could affect Holdings' ability to sustain its dividend. Holdings' ability to pay a dividend on its common stock or sustain it at current levels is subject to our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay dividends. In addition, our debt agreements contain certain limitations on the amount of cash we are permitted to distribute to our stockholders by way of dividend or stock repurchase. Lastly, a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at a floating rate and substantial increases in interest rates could limit the amount of cash we have available to pay dividends. Provisions in Holdings' corporate documents and the law of the State of Delaware as well as change of control provisions in certain of our debt and other agreements could delay or prevent a change of control, even if that change would be beneficial to stockholders, or could have a materially negative impact on our business. Certain provisions in Holdings' Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the 2011 Credit Facility and the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes may have the effect of deterring transactions involving a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. Holdings' Certificate of Incorporation provides for the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by Holdings' Board of Directors. The authorization of preferred shares empowers Holdings' Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. If issued, the preferred stock could also dilute the holders of Holdings' common stock and could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. 26 Table of Contents Holdings is also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in some circumstances. All of the foregoing factors could materially adversely affect the price of the common stock. The 2011 Credit Facility contains provisions pursuant to which it is an event of default if any "person" becomes the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the common stock. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us and if any "person" were to become the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the common stock, we may not be able to repay such indebtedness. We have the exclusive right to use certain Warner Bros. and DC Comics characters in our theme parks in the United States (except in the Las Vegas metropolitan area), Canada, Mexico and certain other countries. Warner Bros. can terminate these licenses under certain circumstances, including the acquisition of us by persons engaged in the movie or television industries. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2012 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 