ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any one or a combination of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Factors That May Affect Our Business There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are under the Consent Order that, among other things, requires us to increase and maintain our leverage and total risk-based capital ratios to at least 10% and 12%, respectively, by March 31, 2010. Failure to increase our capital ratios or further declines in our capital ratios exposes us to additional restrictions and regulatory actions, including potential regulatory take-over. This uncertainty as to our ability to meet existing or future regulatory requirements raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We do not expect to meet the capital ratio requirements in the near-term future. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. In addition, our customers, employees, vendors, correspondent institutions, and others with whom we do business may react negatively to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This negative reaction may lead to heightened concerns regarding our financial condition that could result in a significant loss in deposits and customer relationships, key employees, vendor relationships and our ability to do business with correspondent institutions upon which we rely. Furthermore, the existence of substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern makes it highly likely that the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill of $102.7 million at December 31, 2009, may be impaired as of March 31, 2010. We have not been able to meet the capital ratio requirements of the Consent Order and our recovery plan may not be effective in improving our capital position. The Consent Order requires the bank, among other things, to increase its Tier 1 capital to maintain a minimum leverage capital ratio of at least 10% and total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%, as well as develop a contingency plan if those ratios are not attained by March 31, 2010. We have been pursuing all alternatives, including raising new capital. While we received interest from potential private equity investors, our Board of Directors determined that consummation of a transaction on the terms and conditions proposed to date is not likely to occur in the near-term. Because we do not anticipate being able to raise adequate capital to meet the capital ratio requirements in the near-term, we have commenced the implementation of a recovery plan which focuses on our bank’s core businesses and traditional markets in Hawaii. See “—Capital Resources” below and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements under “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further information regarding the recovery plan. If we are unable to successfully implement our recovery plan or if the recovery plan is not effective in improving our capital position, our financial condition will continue to deteriorate and would negatively impact our ability to continue as a going concern. 18 We are subject to a number of requirements and prohibitions under the Consent Order and the MOU and may be subject to additional limitations on our business and additional regulatory actions, including a federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, if we cannot comply with the Consent Order and the MOU or if our financial condition continues to deteriorate. Central Pacific Bank is subject to the Consent Order which requires it to improve its capital position, asset quality, liquidity and management oversight, among other matters. In addition to the capital ratio requirements described above, the bank must, among other things, maintain an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses at all times and systematically reduce the amount of commercial real estate loans, particularly land development and construction loans. In the meantime, the condition of the bank’s loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the current economic environment and thus continue to deplete the bank’s capital and other financial resources. In addition, Central Pacific Financial Corp. continues to be subject to the MOU effective April 1, 2009 with the FRBSF and the DFI. The issues required to be addressed by the MOU overlap to a large extent with those contained in the Consent Order and include, among other matters, to review and establish more comprehensive policies and methodologies relating to the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses, to re-evaluate, develop and implement strategic and other plans and to increase and maintain the bank’s leverage capital ratio at or above 9%. The MOU also includes our agreement to obtain the approval of the FRBSF and the DFI for Central Pacific Financial Corp. to increase, renew, incur or guarantee indebtedness, pay dividends and make payments on our trust preferred securities. As a result of the FRBSF’s December 2009 examination of Central Pacific Financial Corp., we anticipate that it will consent to a formal enforcement order with the FRBSF. We do not expect to receive a draft of such enforcement order until after we receive the formal examination report. We are not able to determine the full extent of that order until we receive a draft of such order. As of the date of this filing, we were not in compliance with the capital ratio and classified assets requirements in the Consent Order and MOU. Should we continue to fail to comply with these requirements, or should we suffer a continued deterioration in our financial condition, we may be subject to additional limitations on our business and additional regulatory actions. Possible enforcement actions against us include the issuance of additional orders that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, a federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. If these events occur, Central Pacific Financial Corp. would likely suffer a complete loss of the value of its ownership interest in the bank, and we subsequently may be exposed to significant claims by our shareholders as well as our regulators. We have incurred significant losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable. We incurred net losses of $313.7 million and $138.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily due to credit costs, including a significant provision for loan and lease losses. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit exposure, it is likely that we will continue to incur elevated credit costs through 2010, which would adversely impact our overall financial performance and results of operations. Our Hawaii and, to a lesser extent, California commercial real estate and construction loan operations have a considerable effect on our results of operations. The performance of our Hawaii and California commercial real estate and construction loans depends on a number of factors, including improvement of the real estate market in which we operate. As we have seen in the Hawaii and California construction and commercial real estate markets throughout 2009, the strength of the real estate market and the results of our operations could continue to be negatively affected by the economic downturn. Consensus among various economists and regulators suggest that the commercial real estate market is likely to be significantly impacted in the near-term. Although we announced on December 9, 2009 our plans to exit the West Coast market and wind down our California loan operations, we still have a sizable California loan portfolio and the performance of that portfolio continues to be subject to market conditions in California. 19 Declines in the market for commercial property are causing commercial borrowers to suffer losses on their projects and they may be unable to repay their loans. Defaults of these loans or further deterioration in the credit worthiness of any of these borrowers would further negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Declines in housing prices and the supply of existing houses for sale are causing residential developers who are our borrowers to also suffer losses on their projects and encounter difficulty in repaying their loans. Since the third quarter of 2007, we have significantly increased our provision for loan and lease losses as a result of these challenging conditions. Our provision increased to $348.8 million in 2009 compared to $171.7 million in 2008 and $53.0 million in 2007 while our percentage of nonperforming assets to total loans and leases, loans held for sale and other real estate increased to 15.85% in 2009 compared to 3.52% in 2008 and 1.47% in 2007. Credit costs will likely continue to be elevated through 2010 and we cannot assure you that we will have an adequate provision to cover potential future losses. If we suffer greater losses than we are projecting, our recovery plan and the ability to improve our position will be materially adversely affected. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry and continued economic slowdown in Hawaii or a worsening of current market conditions in general would result in additional adverse effects on us. The U.S. economy entered into one of the longest economic recessions to have occurred since the Great Depression of the 1930s in December 2007. During this time, the global and U.S. economies experienced a protracted slowdown in business activity as a result of disruptions in the financial system, including a lack of confidence in the worldwide credit markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market, along with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. The market turmoil and tightening of credit consequently led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resultant economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Although general economic trends and market conditions have since stabilized to some degree, a continued economic slowdown in Hawaii or a worsening of current market conditions in general would likely result in additional adverse effects on us, including: (i) loan delinquencies may continue to increase; (ii) problem assets and foreclosures may continue to increase leading to more loan charge-offs; (iii) demand for our products and services may decline; (iv) low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may continue to decrease; and (v) collateral for loans made by us, especially involving real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. As further described in “Item7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview of Results of Operations—Concentrations of Credit Risk,” we have a high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans. As a result, economic downturns, and specifically weakness in the commercial real estate market, have a significantly more adverse impact on our performance compared to many other financial institutions. Because of the high concentration risk within our portfolio, we believe credit costs will remain elevated through 2010. A large percentage of our real estate loans are construction loans which involve the additional risk that a project may not be completed, increasing the risk of loss. Approximately 31% of our real estate loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009 was comprised of construction loans. Sixty-six percent of these construction loans were in Hawaii while 34% were located on the mainland (29% in California and 5% in Washington). Many of our construction loans are reliant upon sponsors and/or guarantor for additional support. Repayment of construction loans is dependent upon the successful completion of the construction project, on time and within budget, and the successful sale of the completed project. If a borrower is unable to complete a construction project or if the marketability or value of the completed development is impaired, proceeds from the sale of the subject property may be insufficient to repay the loan. In recent periods, our construction loan portfolio has been significantly impacted by an increase in loan delinquencies and defaults, as well as declining collateral values as the commercial real estate markets in Hawaii and California have continued their downturns through 2009. Further deterioration in any of the real estate markets we are exposed to will likely damage the marketability and value of our construction projects, as well as diminish sponsor and/or guarantor capacity, and may lead to increased risk of loss. Because of our high concentration of construction loans, combined with the uncertainty surrounding many of our existing construction borrowers and projects, there is an increased risk of future credit losses (in excess of the losses we have already taken) regardless of whether the construction market improves, remains stable, or continues to deteriorate. 20 A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and continued deterioration in the real estate market may result in additional losses and adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations have been, and in future periods, will continue to be significantly impacted by the economy in Hawaii, and to a lesser extent, other markets we are exposed to including California. Approximately 86% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009 was comprised of loans primarily collateralized by real estate, 79% of these loans were concentrated in Hawaii and 21% were located on the mainland (18% in California and 3% in Washington). Deterioration of the economic environment in Hawaii, California or other markets we are exposed to, including a continued decline in the real estate market, further declines in single-family home resales or a material external shock, may significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. Over the past two years, material declines in the value of the real estate assets securing many of our commercial real estate loans has led to significant credit losses in this portfolio. As a result of our particularly high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans, the risk within our portfolio is higher than many financial institutions and, as a result, our portfolio is susceptible to significant credit losses during economic downturns and adverse changes in the real estate market. As stated above, because of the uncertainty surrounding many of our existing commercial real estate borrowers and commercial real estate assets, there is an increased risk of future credit losses (in excess of the losses we have already taken) regardless of whether the commercial market improves, remains stable, or continues to deteriorate. Our ability to maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity and required capital levels may be negatively impacted by the current economic environment which may, among other things, impact our ability to pay dividends or satisfy our obligations. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investments or loans, and other sources would have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include concerns regarding the continued deterioration in our financial condition, our ability to continue as a going concern, increased regulatory actions against us and a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans or deposits are concentrated. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. The management of liquidity risk is critical to the management of our business and our ability to service our customer base. In managing our balance sheet, our primary source of funding is customer deposits. Our ability to continue to attract these deposits and other funding sources is subject to variability based upon a number of factors including volume and volatility in the securities’ markets, our financial condition, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. The availability and level of deposits and other funding sources is highly dependent upon the perception of the liquidity and creditworthiness of the financial institution, which perception can change quickly in response to market conditions or circumstances unique to a particular company. Concerns about our financial condition, our ability to continue as a going concern or concerns about our credit exposure to other persons could adversely impact our sources of liquidity, financial position, including regulatory capital ratios, results of operations and our business prospects. If the level of deposits were to materially decrease, we would have to raise additional funds by increasing the interest that we pay on certificates of deposits or other depository accounts, seek other debt or equity financing or draw upon our available lines of credit. As mentioned above, we have not been able to raise external capital. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, and to a lesser extent, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”) and the Federal Reserve discount window, to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. 21 Our line of credit with the FHLB serves as our primary outside source of liquidity. By virtue of the Consent Order, the bank is in default under its arrangement with the FHLB. Although the bank has not received any notice, the FHLB has the right to call all outstanding borrowings under this arrangement and is not obligated to make future advances. Our maximum borrowing term is limited to one year. The Federal Reserve discount window also serves as an additional outside source of liquidity. Borrowings under this arrangement are through the Federal Reserve’s secondary facility and are subject to providing additional information regarding the financial condition of the bank and reasons for the borrowing. The duration of borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window are generally for a very short period, usually overnight. In the event that these outside sources of liquidity become unavailable to us, we will need to seek additional sources of liquidity, including selling assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell assets at a level to allow us to repay borrowings or meet our liquidity needs. In February 2009, our collateral arrangement with the FHLB converted from a blanket pledge arrangement to a physical possession arrangement whereby we are required to deliver original loan documents to the FHLB for the collateral securing our advances. As a result, should the FHLB elect to call any of our outstanding borrowings, they would maintain possession of the collateral we pledged and could assume legal ownership of the assets in the event we are unable to meet our obligations. We constantly monitor our activities with respect to liquidity and evaluate closely our utilization of our cash assets; however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or the cost of funds to us may not be materially and adversely impacted as a result of economic, market or operational considerations that we may not be able to control. In addition, CPF must provide for its own liquidity. Substantially all of CPF’s revenues are obtained from dividends declared and paid by Central Pacific Bank, which require prior approval from the Company’s regulators including the FDIC and DFI, and are currently not legally permitted due to the deficit in retained earnings. Without this source of funds, CPF does not have sufficient funds to pay in full its own obligations, including its debt obligations. In the third quarter of 2009, CPF elected to defer payment of dividends on TARP Preferred Stock and trust preferred securities as described under “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Resources.” By deferring these payments and pursuant to the terms of the TARP Preferred Stock, our ability to pay dividends with respect to common stock, subject to approval from the FRBSF, the DFI and the U.S. Treasury, is restricted until our obligations under our TARP Preferred Stock and trust preferred securities are brought current. The deferral of these payments may also, among other things, require us to satisfy these obligations before they otherwise would have become due or restrict us in our commercial activities. At December 31, 2009, Central Pacific Bank was not in compliance with certain aspects of the Consent Order and the MOU, including the elevated capital ratios required to be met by March 31, 2010. If the bank is unable to improve its capital position, in addition to the risks discussed above under “—We are subject to a number of requirements and prohibitions under the Consent Order and the MOU and may be subject to additional limitations on our business and additional regulatory actions, including a federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, if we cannot comply with the Consent Order and the MOU or if our financial condition continues to deteriorate, it could have a negative impact on customer confidence, employee retention, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, and our business, results of operations and financial conditions, generally. In addition, our bank’s ability to accept brokered deposits has been restricted, and the interest rates we may pay are constrained, both of which could impact our liquidity. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral or guarantees securing these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. During 2009, our provision for loan and lease losses amounted to $348.8 million, compared to $171.7 million in 2008 and $53.0 million in 2007. Our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may experience significant loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are regularly reevaluated and are based in part on: · Current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; · An evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance for loan and lease losses; · Results of examinations of our loan portfolios by regulatory agencies; and · Management’s internal review of the loan portfolio. 22 In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions, as well as the requirements of the Consent Order. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient. With the volatility of the economic decline and unprecedented nature of the events in the credit and real estate markets during the latter part of 2008, we made significant adjustments to our allowance in 2008. In 2009, we made significant additional adjustments to our allowance due to our high concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans, as well as the ongoing economic downturn and the deterioration in the Hawaii and California real estate markets. We may need to make additional adjustments in our allowance for the remainder of 2010, and possibly beyond, due to the anticipated ongoing deterioration in the local and national real estate markets and economies. In addition, third parties, including our federal and state regulators, periodically evaluate the adequacy of our allowance and there is a risk that their assumptions and conclusions may differ from ours. As a result of these external reviews, we may be required to assign different grades to specific credits, increase our provision for loan and lease losses, and/or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than ours. Specifically, the Consent Order requires the bank to maintain an adequate allowance at all times and requires us to immediately charge-off all assets that our regulators classify as “loss” and one-half the assets they classify as “doubtful.” As required by the Consent Order, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized $21.0 million in incremental charge-offs and a resultant increase in the provision for loan losses related to certain loans. Any further increase in our allowance or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our regulators have not approved our appointment of Mr. Dean as our Executive Chairman. On March 16, 2010, we announced the appointment of Mr. Dean as Executive Chairman of the Boards of CPF and the bank, which appointment will become effective upon the receipt of regulatory approval. Senior management will report to Mr. Dean. In the interim pending regulatory approval, Mr. Dean will serve in an acting role in such positions. Also on March 16, 2010, Mr. Migita announced his retirement as President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Boards of CPF and the bank. Mr. Migita will remain a director of CPF and the bank. Mr. Dean’s appointment is subject to approval by our regulators and we cannot assure you that our regulators will grant their approval. If our regulators do not approve of Mr. Dean’s appointment, we will need to recruit other candidates to lead the turnaround of our company and we may not be able to do so on any given timeframe. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people. There are a limited number of qualified persons in Hawaii with the knowledge and experience required to successfully implement our recovery plan. The more senior the executive, the more difficult it is to locate suitable candidates in the local market. Accordingly, in many circumstances, it is necessary for us to recruit potential candidates from the mainland. At this time, new senior executives are required to be approved by our regulators. Suitable candidates for positions may decline to consider employment with the Company given its current financial condition and the existing uncertainties, particularly since in some circumstances; this would require that the employee relocate from the mainland to Hawaii, where other employment opportunities in the banking industry may be limited. In addition, in the current circumstances, it may be difficult for us to offer compensation packages that would be sufficient to convince candidates that are acceptable to our regulators and meet our requirements to agree to become our employee and/ or relocate. Our financial condition and the existing uncertainties may result in existing employees seeking positions at other companies where these issues are not present. The unexpected loss of services of other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of a loss of their skills, knowledge of our market and years of industry experience. If we are not able to promptly recruit qualified personnel, which we require to conduct our operations, our business and our ability to successfully implement our recovery plan could be adversely affected. We may experience further impairment of our goodwill, which would adversely impact our results of operations. In 2008, we wrote off all of the remaining goodwill associated with our Commercial Real Estate reporting unit and in 2009 we wrote off $50.0 million of goodwill associated with our Hawaii Market reporting unit as it was considered to be impaired at that time. We continue to evaluate the remaining $102.7 million of goodwill assigned to our Hawaii Market reporting unit for impairment. Given the uncertainty surrounding our ability to comply with the terms of the Consent Order, there is a high likelihood that the remaining balance of our goodwill may be impaired as of March 31, 2010. Additionally, further declines in our stock price and other factors such as the performance of our Hawaii Market reporting unit will also need to be considered in our evaluation of goodwill during the first quarter of 2010. 23 The price of our common stock has declined significantly and is volatile. The trading price of our common stock has declined significantly since February 2007 when our stock price traded above $40.00 per share. On March 1, 2010, the closing price of our common stock was $1.37 per share. In addition, the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · Our ability to continue as a going concern; · Failure to comply with the requirements of the Consent Order with the FDIC and the DFI and the possibility of resulting action by the regulators; · Further deterioration of asset quality; · The incurrence of continuing losses; · Suspension of trading of our common stock on or delisting from the NYSE if we become non-compliant with continuing listing standards, including the minimum $1 price rule; · Removal of our common stock from certain market indices, such as the removal of our common stock from the S&P Small Cap 600; · Actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · Changes in revenue or earnings/losses estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; · Failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings/losses estimates; · Speculation in the press or investment community; · Strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · Actions by institutional shareholders; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · Future sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock in short sale transactions; · General market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; · Proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; · Anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or · Domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. 24 The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility over the past year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. Accordingly, the shares of our common stock that an investor purchases may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent individual shareholders from being able to sell their shares when they want or at prices they find attractive. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Our common stock is equity and therefore is subordinate to our subsidiaries' indebtedness and preferred stock. Shares of our common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of the common stock will rank junior to all current and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in the event of our liquidation. We may, and Central Pacific Bank and our other subsidiaries may also, incur additional indebtedness from time to time and may increase our aggregate level of outstanding indebtedness. Additionally, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of our preferred stock then outstanding. Under the terms of the TARP Preferred Stock, because we have deferred dividends on the TARP Preferred Stock, our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, subject to approval from the FRBSF and the DFI, is restricted until our obligations under our TARP Preferred Stock (as well as our trust preferred securities) are brought current. In addition, prior to the earlier of February 15, 2012 and the date on which shares of the TARP Preferred Stock have been redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the TARP Preferred Stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties, neither Central Pacific Financial Corp. nor any subsidiary may, without consent of the U.S. Treasury, pay cash dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.10 per share or redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of common stock, other equity securities or any trust preferred securities. In any event, we would not be in a position to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, then the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. There is a limited trading market for our common stock and as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NYSE, the volume of trading in our common stock is lower than many other companies listed on the NYSE. A public trading market with depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given our current stock price levels, we are at risk of falling under the NYSE’s minimum $1 stock price rule, in which case, our common stock may be subject to suspension of trading and delisting from the NYSE. In the event this occurs and we are not able to cure this deficiency, it would further reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. By deferring payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing our common stock or preferred stock or making any payment on outstanding debt obligations that rank equally with or junior to the junior subordinated debentures. On August 20, 2009, we began deferring regularly scheduled interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debentures prohibit us from declaring or paying cash dividends on or repurchasing our common stock or preferred stock or making any payment on outstanding debt obligations that rank equally with or junior to the junior subordinated debentures, while we have deferred interest thereunder. 25 Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the TARP’s CPP, while the TARP Preferred Stock is outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing quarterly cash dividends on our common stock above $0.10 per share, and from making certain repurchases of our common stock, other equity securities and the trust preferred securities without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the earlier of February 15, 2012 and the date on which shares of the TARP Preferred Stock are redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the TARP Preferred Stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the TARP Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to our common stock, other equity securities or the trust preferred securities are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on the TARP Preferred Stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In the third quarter of 2009, we suspended the payment of cash dividends on our TARP Preferred Stock. As such, we are unable to pay dividends on our common stock unless these dividends are brought current. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the TARP Warrant, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. The shares of TARP Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury impact net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the TARP Warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury to purchase up to 1,585,748 shares of our voting common stock at an exercise price of $12.77 per share may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared or accrued and deferred, as well as the accretion on discount on the TARP Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, will reduce the net income available to holders of common stock and our earnings per share. The TARP Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company. Additionally, the ownership interest of holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the TARP Warrant is exercised. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the TARP Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the TARP Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the TARP Warrant is not bound by this restriction. Because of our participation in the TARP’s CPP, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP CPP, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds an investment in us. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $0.5 million for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers, including a new chief executive officer. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us and our earnings may be negatively affected. In light of our current volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, our interest rate margin could be expected to increase during periods of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during periods of falling interest rates. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including the following: 26 · Inflation; · Recession; · Changes in unemployment; · The money supply; · International disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; and · Governmental actions. Our asset/liability management strategy may not be able to control our risk from changes in market interest rates and it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may reposition our investment portfolio to reduce our net interest income volatility. See “Asset/Liability Management and Interest Rate Risk” included in Part II, Item 7 for a further discussion of our sensitivity to interest rate changes. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks conduct significant business in the market areas in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; · The ability to expand our market position; · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to its competitors; · Customer satisfaction with our level of service; and · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of our financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern may also affect our competitiveness. Customers may decide not to do business with the bank due to its financial condition and questions as to our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, we have and continue to face additional regulatory restrictions that our competitors may not be subject to, including reducing our commercial real estate loan portfolio, improving the overall risk profile of the Company and restrictions on the amount of interest we can pay on deposit accounts, which could adversely impact our ability to compete and attract and retain customers. 27 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our deposit customers may pursue alternatives to deposits at our bank or seek higher yielding deposits causing us to incur increased funding costs. We are facing increasing deposit-pricing pressures. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments as providing superior expected returns or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. The financial condition of our bank compared to other top Hawaiian financial institutions, as well as our ability to continue as a going concern, may affect our customer’s decisions to keep their deposit accounts with us. In addition to the Consent Order and the MOU, governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may further impair our operations or restrict our growth. In addition to the requirements of the Consent Order and the MOU, we are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years, Congress and the President have passed and enacted significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the FRB, FDIC and DFI. If we fail to comply with federal and state bank regulations, the regulators may limit our activities or growth, impose fines on us or ultimately cease our operations. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies regulate many aspects of our operations. These areas include: · The capital that must be maintained; · The kinds of activities that can be engaged in; · The kinds and amounts of investments that can be made; · The locations of offices; · Insurance of deposits and the premiums that we must pay for this insurance; and · How much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. Bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and bank holding companies for unsafe or unsound practices in the conduct of their businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the authority. Possible enforcement actions against us could include a federal conservatorship or receivership for the bank, the issuance of additional orders that could be judicially enforced, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. 28 The fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. It also can materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Additionally, in June of 2009, the Obama administration proposed a wide range of regulatory reforms that, if enacted, may have significant effects on the financial services industry in the United States. If enacted, the proposals would significantly alter not only how financial firms are regulated but also how they conduct their business. Changes in FRB policies and our regulatory environment generally are beyond our control, and we are unable to predict what changes may occur or the manner in which any future changes may affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Failure of legislative and regulatory initiatives to maintain stability in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect us. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA in response to the current crisis in the financial sector. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators have implemented and are continuing to propose a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker dealers, implementation of programs by the FRB to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and other matters. Additionally, in June of 2009, the Obama administration proposed a wide range of regulatory reforms that, if enacted, may have significant effects on the financial services industry in the United States. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual long-term impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability that were experienced through the beginning of 2009. Although the financial markets have begun to stabilize, a failure by the EESA to maintain stabilization in the financial markets and a worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will decrease our future earnings. In May of 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The assessment, which was payable on September 30, 2009, is in addition to a planned increase in premiums and a change in the way regular premiums are assessed, which the FDIC previously approved. The cost of the special assessment was equal to five basis points of Central Pacific Bank’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009 and resulted in a charge of approximately $2.5 million. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC issued new assessment regulations that require FDIC-insured institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012; however certain financial institutions, including our bank, were exempted from the new prepayment regulations and will continue to pay their risk-based assessments on a quarterly basis. The recent assessment increases and special assessment discussed above, along with any future assessment increases and/or special assessments applicable to the bank, may continue to increase our expenses and adversely impact our earnings. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The market for certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio has become much less liquid over the past two years. This coupled with uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral has caused discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. We value some of our investments using cash flow and valuation models which include certain subjective estimates that we believe are reflective of the estimates a purchaser of such securities would use if such a transaction were to occur. The volatile market may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairment of these assets that may result in accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on consolidated financial statements and capital ratios. 29 If our investment in the FHLB is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and shareholders' equity could decrease. We own common stock of the FHLB to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB’s advance program. The aggregate cost of our FHLB common stock as of December 31, 2009 was $48.8 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLB common stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB common stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 942-325. The FHLB announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the “FHFA”), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. Our business could be adversely affected by unfavorable actions from rating agencies. Ratings assigned by ratings agencies to us, our affiliates or our securities may impact the decision of certain customers, in particular, institutions, to do business with us. A rating downgrade or a negative rating could adversely affect our deposits and our business relationships. On August 6, 2009, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long-term Issuer Default Ratings of CPF and Central Pacific Bank to ‘CCC’ and ‘B’, respectively, and revised the Rating Outlook for Central Pacific Bank to Negative. On September 30, 2009, Fitch Ratings also downgraded the ratings of our trust preferred securities to “CC” to reflect the deferral of dividend payments on these securities. On November 2, 2009, Fitch Ratings further downgraded the long-term Issuer Default Ratings of Central Pacific Bank to ‘CCC’. These ratings downgrade may contribute to a loss of deposits and further downgrades to us, our affiliates or our securities and could further reduce deposits and result in the loss of relationships. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Because we are a holding company with no significant operations other than our bank, we currently depend upon dividends from our bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from our bank. Our bank is currently prohibited from paying dividends because of a $242.1 million deficit in its retained earnings. The bank will not be able to pay any future dividends until it has positive retained earnings. Accordingly, we will not be able to rely upon dividends from the bank for the foreseeable future. In addition, the ability of the bank to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is subject to the regulatory authority of the FRBSF, the FDIC, the DFI and Hawaii law as further described under “Part I, Item 1. Supervision and Regulation – Dividends.” As a result of the MOU, cash dividends by the bank to CPF require prior approval from the FDIC and DFI. The regulators have not permitted the bank to pay dividends to CPF since April 2009. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 30 We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Regardless of whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Certifications We have filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Last year, we submitted to the NYSE on July 16, 2009 our annual CEO certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards required by NYSE Rule 303A.12. This year, we intend to submit to the NYSE our annual CEO certification within 30 days of the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders, which is scheduled for May 24, 2010. ITEM 