Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the principal risks that we believe are material to our security holders. We operate in a continually changing business environment and, therefore, new risks emerge from time to time. This section contains some forward-looking statements. For an explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements, see “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” FACTORS IMPACTING ATTENDANCE—LOCAL CONDITIONS, EVENTS, NATURAL DISASTERS, DISTURBANCES AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES—CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT PARK ATTENDANCE. Lower attendance at our parks may be caused by various local conditions, events, weather or natural disasters. Furthermore, we believe that general economic conditions may also adversely impact attendance figures at our parks, in that a challenging economic environment can disproportionately affect our target audience of low to middle income consumers who generally have relatively limited amounts of discretionary income. In addition, since some of our parks are near major urban areas and appeal to teenagers and young adults, there may be disturbances at one or more parks which negatively affect our image. This may result in a decrease in attendance at the affected parks. We work with local police authorities on security-related precautions to prevent these types of occurrences. We can make no assurance, however, that these precautions will be able to prevent any disturbances. We believe that our ownership of many parks in different geographic locations reduces the effects of these types of occurrences on our consolidated results. Our business and financial results were adversely impacted by the terrorist activities occurring in the United States on September 11, 2001. These activities resulted in a significant decrease in attendance at our parks during the four weekends immediately following September 11. In addition, terrorist alerts and threats of future terrorist activities may continue to adversely affect attendance at our parks. Since October 1, 2002, our property insurance policies (which include business interruption insurance) have not covered risks related to terrorist activities. We cannot predict what effect any further terrorist activities that may occur in the future may have on our business and results of operations. 20 WE HAVE A HISTORY OF NET LOSSES AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO EXPERIENCE NET LOSSES. CONSEQUENTLY, WE MAY NOT HAVE THE ABILITY TO IMPLEMENT OUR STRATEGY FOR ACHIEVING GROWTH AND OTHERWISE FINANCE FUTURE OPERATIONS. We have had a history of net losses and expect to continue to report net losses for the next several years. Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover our relatively high percentage of fixed costs, the interest costs on our debt and our depreciation expense. We expect that these expenses will remain significant. We reported net losses of $58.1 million, $105.7 million, $61.7 million, $464.8 million (which included a $291.0 million loss from discontinued operations) and $110.9 million (which included a $22.0 million loss from discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. Continued losses could reduce our cash available from operations to service our indebtedness, as well as limit our ability to implement our strategy for achieving growth and otherwise finance our operations in the future. IMPLEMENTATION OF A NEW OPERATIONAL PLAN—A CHANGE IN OUR STRATEGY MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. Our new management team is implementing a new operational plan. It may take management a significant amount of time to fully implement its new plan. If our new operational plan is not successful or if we are unable to execute it, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected in the near term as we incur additional expenses to implement the plan, even if the plan is ultimately fully implemented and is successful. NEW EXECUTIVE OFFICERS/BOARD OF DIRECTORS—OUR NEW MANAGEMENT DOES NOT HAVE PROVEN SUCCESS WITH THE COMPANY. A substantial number of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, and all but one of our directors have been in place only from and after December 2005. They do not have previous experience with us or the theme park industry, and we cannot assure you that they will fully integrate themselves into our business or that they will effectively manage our business affairs. Our failure to assimilate the new members of management or the directors, the failure of the new members of management or the directors to perform effectively or the loss of any of the new members of management or directors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISK OF ACCIDENTS—THERE IS THE RISK OF ACCIDENTS OCCURRING AT OUR PARKS OR COMPETING PARKS WHICH MAY REDUCE ATTENDANCE AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. Almost all of our parks feature “thrill rides.” While we carefully maintain the safety of our rides, there are inherent risks involved with these attractions. An accident or an injury at any of our parks or at parks operated by our competitors may reduce attendance at our parks, causing a decrease in revenues. For example, on May 2, 2004, a fatality occurred on a roller coaster at Six Flags New England, which we believe contributed to a decline in attendance and, as a result, adversely impacted performance at that park during the 2004 operating season. We maintain insurance of the type and in amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable and that are available to businesses in our industry. We maintain multi-layered general liability policies that provide for excess liability coverage of up to $100.0 million per occurrence. For incidents occurring at our domestic parks after November 15, 2003, our self-insured retention is $2.5 million per occurrence. For incidents at those parks during the twelve months prior to that date, the retention is $2.0 million per occurrence. For incidents during the twelve months ended November 15, 2002, the retention is $1.0 million 21 per occurrence. For most prior incidents, our policies did not provide for a self-insured retention. The self-insured retention relating to our international parks is nominal with respect to all applicable periods. Our current insurance policies expire on December 31, 2006. We cannot predict the level of the premiums that we may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any self-insurance retention applicable thereto, the level of aggregate coverage available or the availability of coverage for specific risks, such as terrorism. ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS—BAD WEATHER CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT ATTENDANCE AT OUR PARKS. Because most of the attractions at our theme parks are outdoors, attendance at our parks is adversely affected by bad weather. The effects of bad weather on attendance can be more pronounced at our water parks. Bad weather and forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions can reduce the number of people who come to our parks, which negatively affects our revenues. Although we believe that our ownership of many parks in different geographic locations reduces the effect that adverse weather can have on our consolidated results, we believe that our 2003 and 2004 operating results were adversely affected by abnormally cold and wet weather in a number of our major U.S. markets. SEASONALITY—OUR OPERATIONS ARE SEASONAL. Our operations are seasonal. Approximately 85% of our annual park attendance occurs during the second and third quarters of each year. As a result, when conditions or events described in the above risk factors occur during the operating season, particularly during the peak season of July and August, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be offset. Accordingly, such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, most of our expenses for maintenance and costs of adding new attractions are incurred when the parks are closed in the mid to late autumn and winter months. For this reason, a sequential quarter to quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. COMPETITION—THE THEME PARK INDUSTRY COMPETES WITH NUMEROUS ENTERTAINMENT ALTERNATIVES. Our parks compete with other theme, water and amusement parks and with other types of recreational facilities and forms of entertainment, including movies, sports attractions and vacation travel. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation and leisure industries generally, such as general economic conditions, including relative fuel prices, and changes in consumer spending habits. The principal competitive factors of a park include location, price, the uniqueness and perceived quality of the rides and attractions, the atmosphere and cleanliness of the park and the quality of its food and entertainment. CUSTOMER PRIVACY—IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR CUSTOMERS’ CREDIT CARD DATA, WE COULD BE EXPOSED TO DATA LOSS, LITIGATION AND LIABILITY, AND OUR REPUTATION COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY HARMED. In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information securely over public networks and store it in our data warehouse. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. 22 ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS—ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS LIMIT THE ABILITY OF STOCKHOLDERS TO EFFECT A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF US. Certain provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and in our debt instruments and those of our subsidiaries may have the effect of deterring transactions involving a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides for the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. The authorization of preferred shares empowers our board of directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. If issued, the preferred stock could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. We have no current plans to issue any preferred stock. In addition, we have a rights plan which gives each holder of our common stock the right to purchase junior preferred stock in certain events. The rights plan is designed to deter third parties from attempting to take control of us on terms that do not benefit all stockholders or that our board of directors determines not to be in the best interests of stockholders. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us. Furthermore, upon a change of control, the holders of substantially all of our outstanding indebtedness are entitled at their option to be repaid in cash. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of us. All of these factors could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have the exclusive right to use certain Warner Bros. and DC Comics characters in our theme parks in the United States (except in the Las Vegas metropolitan area), Canada, Mexico and other countries. Warner Bros. can terminate these licenses under certain circumstances, including the acquisition of us by persons engaged in the movie or television industries. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us. SUBSTANTIAL LEVERAGE—OUR HIGH LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS AND OTHER MONETARY OBLIGATIONS REQUIRE THAT A SIGNIFICANT PART OF OUR CASH FLOW BE USED TO PAY INTEREST AND FUND THESE OTHER OBLIGATIONS. We have a high level of debt. Our total indebtedness, as of December 31, 2005, was approximately $2,242.4 million. Based on interest rates at December 31, 2005 for floating rate debt, annual cash interest payments for 2006 on non-revolving credit debt outstanding at December 31, 2005 and anticipated levels of working capital borrowing for the year will aggregate approximately $180.9 million. None of our public debt matures prior to February 2010 and none of the facilities under our credit agreement matures before June 30, 2008. In addition, the annual dividend requirements on our outstanding preferred stock total approximately $20.8 million, which we can, at our option, pay either in cash or shares of our common stock. We are required to redeem all of our outstanding preferred stock on August 15, 2009 (to the extent not previously converted into shares of our common stock) for cash at 100% of the liquidation preference ($287.5 million), plus accrued and unpaid dividends. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, Capital Commitments and Resources.” At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $81.5 million of cash and cash equivalents. As of that date, we had $259.3 million available for borrowings under our credit agreement. 23 In addition to making interest payments on debt and dividend payments on our preferred stock, we must satisfy the following obligations with respect to Six Flags Over Georgia and Six Flags Over Texas, which we refer to as the Partnership Parks: · We must make annual distributions to our partners in these Partnership Parks, which will amount to approximately $56.8 million in 2006 (of which we will receive approximately $18.5 million in 2006 as a result of our ownership interest in the parks) with similar amounts (adjusted for changes in cost of living) payable in future years. · We must spend a minimum of approximately 6% of each park’s annual revenues over specified periods for capital expenditures. · Each year we must offer to purchase a specified maximum number of partnership units from our partners in the Partnership Parks, which in 2003 resulted in an aggregate payment by us of approximately $5.7 million. There were no purchases of units in 2004 and 2005. The maximum number of units that we could be required to purchase in 2006 would result in an aggregate payment by us of approximately $246.6 million. The annual incremental unit purchase obligation (without taking into account accumulation from prior years) aggregates approximately $31.1 million for both parks based on current purchase prices. As we purchase additional units, we are entitled to a proportionate increase in our share of the minimum annual distributions. We expect to use cash flow from the operations at these parks to satisfy our annual distribution and capital expenditure obligations with respect to these parks before we use any of our other funds. The two partnerships generated approximately $45.9 million of aggregate net cash provided by operating activities during 2005 (net of advances from the general partner). The obligations relating to Six Flags Over Georgia continue until 2027 and those relating to Six Flags Over Texas continue until 2028. We have guaranteed the payment of a $31.0 million construction term loan incurred by HWP Development LLC (a joint venture in which we own a 41% interest) for the purpose of financing the construction and development of a hotel and indoor water park project located adjacent to our Great Escape park near Lake George, New York, which opened in February 2006. Our guarantee will be released upon full payment and discharge of the loan, which matures on December 17, 2009. As security for the guarantee, we have provided an $8.0 million letter of credit. Although we are contractually committed to make approximately $13.0 million of capital expenditures at one park over the next two years, the vast majority of our capital expenditures in 2006 and beyond will be made on a discretionary basis. We plan on spending approximately $140 million on capital expenditures for the 2006 season, adding a wide array of attractions at many of our parks. Our high level of debt and other obligations could have important negative consequences to us and investors in our securities. These include: · We may not be able to satisfy all of our obligations, including, but not limited to, our obligations under the instruments governing our outstanding debt. · We could have difficulties obtaining necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, Partnership Park obligations, refinancings or other purposes. · We will have to use a significant part of our cash flow to make payments on our debt, to pay the dividends on preferred stock (if we choose to pay them in cash), and to satisfy the other obligations set forth above, which may reduce the capital available for operations and expansion. · Adverse economic or industry conditions may have more of a negative impact on us. 24 We cannot be sure that cash generated from our parks will be as high as we expect or that our expenses will not be higher than we expect. Because a large portion of our expenses are fixed in any given year, our operating cash flow margins are highly dependent on revenues, which are largely driven by attendance levels and in-park spending. We expect to refinance all or some of our debt or secure new financing. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain the refinancing or new financing on reasonable terms or at all. We have agreed in our credit agreement and the indentures covering our outstanding notes to limit the amount of additional debt we will incur. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, we are largely dependent upon the $300.0 million working capital revolving credit facility under our credit agreement to fund off-season expenses. Our ability to borrow under the working capital revolving credit facility is dependent upon compliance with certain conditions, including satisfying certain financial ratios and the absence of any material adverse change. If we were to become unable to borrow under the facility, we would likely be unable to pay our off-season obligations in full and may be unable to meet our repurchase obligations (if any) in respect of repurchases of partnership units in the Partnership Parks. RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS—OUR FINANCIAL AND OPERATING ACTIVITIES ARE LIMITED BY RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN THE TERMS OF OUR FINANCINGS. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may significantly limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain types of transactions, including the following: · incurring additional indebtedness; · creating liens on our assets; · paying dividends; · selling assets; · engaging in mergers or acquisitions; and · making investments. Further, under our credit agreement, our principal direct wholly owned subsidiary, Six Flags Operations, and its subsidiaries are required to comply with specified consolidated financial ratios and tests, including: · interest expense; · fixed charges; · debt service; and · total debt. Although we are currently in compliance with all of these financial covenants and restrictions, events beyond our control, such as weather and economic, financial and industry conditions, may affect our ability to continue meeting these financial tests and ratios. The need to comply with these financial covenants and restrictions could limit our ability to expand our business or prevent us from borrowing more money when necessary. If we breach any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement or the indentures governing our senior notes, the principal of and accrued interest on the applicable debt would become due and payable. 25 In addition, that default could constitute a cross-default under the instruments governing all of our other indebtedness. If a cross-default occurs, the maturity of almost all of our indebtedness could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. If that happens, we would not be able to satisfy our debt obligations, which would have a substantial material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these restrictions in the future or that our compliance would not cause us to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us. LABOR COSTS—INCREASED COSTS OF LABOR, PENSION, POST-RETIREMENT AND MEDICAL AND OTHER EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS MAY REDUCE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and employees. Increased labor costs, due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefit costs or otherwise, would adversely impact our operating expenses. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees to keep pace with our needs. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations may be adversely affected. With more than 2,000 full-time employees, our results of operations are also substantially affected by costs of pension and medical benefits. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. At least some of these macro-economic factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs (including our decision in February 2006 to “freeze” our pension plan), there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. In addition, our decision to freeze our pension plan could adversely affect our relationship with our employees and/or result in increased attempts by unions to organize our employees. HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE—ACCESS TO CASH FLOW OF MOST OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES IS LIMITED We are a holding company whose primary assets consist of shares of stock or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, and we conduct substantially all of our current operations through our subsidiaries. Almost all of our income is derived from our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we will be dependent on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. We had $81.5 million of cash and cash equivalents on a consolidated basis at December 31, 2005, of which $31.8 million was held at the holding company level. 26 Other than our holdings in the Partnership Parks, all of our current operations are conducted by subsidiaries of Six Flags Operations, our principal direct wholly-owned subsidiary. We may, in the future, transfer other assets to Six Flags Operations or other entities owned by us. Our credit agreement limits the ability of Six Flags Operations to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Six Flags Operations may not make cash distributions to us unless it is in compliance with the financial and other covenants set forth in the credit agreement and it is not otherwise in default thereunder. If it is in compliance, Six Flags Operations is permitted to make dividends to us from cash generated by operations of up to $75.0 million (of which $8.9 million has been dividended as of December 31, 2005 and $66.1 million remains available) in order to enable us to pay amounts in respect of any refinancing or repayment of debt under the indentures governing our outstanding notes. Similarly, if it is in compliance, Six Flags Operations may make additional cash contributions to us generally limited to an amount equal to the sum of: · cash interest payments on the public notes issued by Six Flags, Inc.; · payments we are required to make under our agreements with our partners in the Partnership Parks; and · cash dividends on our preferred stock. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE—THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY DECLINE DUE TO POSSIBLE SALES OF SHARES As of March 1, 2006, there were approximately 93.5 million shares of our common stock outstanding (excluding 700,000 shares of restricted stock we agreed to issue in 2006 to certain executives), all of which are transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, except for any shares held by our affiliates. At that date, we also had outstanding options held by management and directors to purchase approximately 5.1 million shares and under our current option plans we may issue options to purchase an additional 1.2 million shares. In addition, our outstanding shares of preferred stock are convertible at the option of the holders into 13.8 million shares of common stock, and our Convertible Notes are convertible into 47.1 million shares, although we can elect to deliver cash to satisfy note conversions. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to pay quarterly dividend payments on our outstanding preferred stock. The sale or expectation of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the public market might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. RATINGS OF THE COMPANY—CHANGES IN OUR CREDIT RATINGS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES, INCLUDING OUR COMMON STOCK AND SENIOR NOTES. Credit rating agencies continually review their ratings for the companies that they follow, including us. During 2005, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service (“S&P”) lowered its ratings on us, including our corporate credit rating which was lowered to “B-” from “B” and Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”) downgraded our (i) senior unsecured debt to “Caa1” from “B3,” (ii) preferred stock to “Caa2” from “Caa1” and (iii) credit agreement debt to “B1” from “Ba3.” Furthermore, although S&P upgraded our ratings outlook from negative to stable, Moody’s kept our ratings outlook on negative. A further negative change in our ratings or the perception that such a change could occur may adversely affect the market price of our securities, including our common stock and public debt. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 27 