Item 1A Risk Factors As a holding company, National Fuel depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. National Fuel is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries. In order to meet its financial needs, National Fuel relies exclusively on repayments of principal and interest on intercompany loans made by National Fuel to its operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from the subsidiaries. Such operating subsidiaries may not generate sufficient net income to pay upstream dividends or generate sufficient cash flow to make payments of principal or interest on such intercompany loans. National Fuel is dependent on bank credit facilities and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. In addition to its longer term debt that is issued to the public under its indentures, National Fuel has relied, and continues to rely, upon shorter term bank borrowings and commercial paper to finance the execution of a portion of its operating strategies. National Fuel is dependent on these capital sources to provide capital to its subsidiaries to allow them to acquire and develop their properties. The availability and cost of these credit sources is cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to National Fuel or National Fuel may not be able to obtain money at a reasonable cost in the future. National Fuel’s ability to borrow under its credit facilities and commercial paper agreements depends on National Fuel’s compliance with its obligations under the facilities and agreements. In addition, all of National Fuel’s short-term bank loans are in the form of floating rate debt or debt that may have rates fixed for very short periods of time. At present, National Fuel has no active interest rate hedges in place to protect against interest rate fluctuations on short-term bank debt. National Fuel has no active interest rate hedges in place with respect to other debt except at the project level of Empire, where there is an interest rate collar on the approximate $22.8 million of project debt (at September 30, 2006). In addition, the interest rates on National Fuel’s short-term bank loans and the ability of National Fuel to issue commercial paper are affected by its debt credit ratings published by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings Service. A ratings downgrade could increase the interest cost of this debt and decrease future availability of money from banks, commercial paper purchasers and other sources. National Fuel believes it is important to maintain investment grade credit ratings to conduct its business. National Fuel’s credit ratings may not reflect all the risks of an investment in its securities. National Fuel’s credit ratings are an independent assessment of its ability to pay its obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in the Company’s credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the specific debt instruments that are rated, as well as the market value of the Company’s common stock. National Fuel’s credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact on the value of its common stock of risks related to structural, market or other factors discussed in this Form 10-K. National Fuel’s need to comply with comprehensive, complex, and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase its costs and limit its revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings. While National Fuel generally refers to its Utility segment and its Pipeline and Storage segment as its “regulated segments,” there are many governmental regulations that have an impact on almost every aspect of National Fuel’s businesses. Existing statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to the Company, which may affect its business in ways that the Company cannot predict. In its Utility segment, the operations of Distribution Corporation are subject to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC and the PaPUC. The NYPSC and the PaPUC, among other things, approve the rates that Distribution Corporation may charge to its utility customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Distribution Corporation may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. If Distribution Corporation is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its utility customers, or if Distribution Corporation is unable to obtain approval for rate increases from these regulators, particularly when necessary to cover 12 Table of Contents increased costs (including costs that may be incurred in connection with governmental investigations or proceedings or mandated infrastructure inspection, maintenance or replacement programs), earnings may decrease. In addition to their historical methods of utility regulation, both the PaPUC and NYPSC have sought to establish competitive markets in which customers may purchase supplies of gas from marketers, rather than from utility companies. In June 1999, the Governor of Pennsylvania signed into law the Natural Gas Choice and Competition Act. The Act revised the Public Utility Code relating to the restructuring of the natural gas industry. The purpose of the law was to permit consumer choice of natural gas suppliers. To a certain degree, the early programs instituted to comply with the Act have not been overly successful, and many residential customers currently continue to purchase natural gas from the utility companies. In October 2005 the PaPUC concluded that “effective competition” does not exist in the retail natural gas supply market statewide. The PaPUC has reconvened a stakeholder group to explore ways to increase the participation of retail customers in choice programs. In New York, in August 2004, the NYPSC issued its Statement of Policy on Further Steps Toward Competition in Retail Energy Markets. This policy statement has a similar goal of encouraging customer choice of alternative natural gas providers. In 2005, the NYPSC stepped up its efforts to encourage customer choice at the retail residential level. These new forms of regulation may increase Distribution Corporation’s cost of doing business, put an additional portion of its business at regulatory risk, and create uncertainty for the future, all of which may make it more difficult to manage Distribution Corporation’s business profitably. In its Pipeline and Storage segment, National Fuel is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to Supply Corporation, and to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC with respect to Empire. (On October 11, 2005, Empire filed an application with the FERC for the authority to build and operate an extension of its natural gas pipeline (the Empire Connector). If the FERC grants that application and the Company builds and commences operations of the Empire Connector, Empire will at that time become a FERC-regulated pipeline company.) The FERC and the NYPSC, among other things, approve the rates that Supply Corporation and Empire, respectively, may charge to their natural gas transportation and/or storage customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Supply Corporation and Empire may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. State commissions can also petition the FERC to investigate whether Supply Corporation’s rates are still just and reasonable, and if not, to reduce those rates prospectively. If Supply Corporation or Empire is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its natural gas transportation and/or storage customers, or if Supply Corporation or Empire is unable to obtain approval for rate increases, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs, Supply Corporation’s or Empire’s earnings may decrease. National Fuel’s liquidity, and in certain circumstances, its earnings, could be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly. Tariff rate schedules in each of the Utility segment’s service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses which permit Distribution Corporation to file with state regulators for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Assuming those rate adjustments are granted, increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on profit margins. Nevertheless, increases in the cost of purchased gas affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount or availability of National Fuel’s capital resources. National Fuel has issued commercial paper and used short-term borrowings in the past to temporarily finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and National Fuel expects to do so in the future.* Distribution Corporation is required to file an accounting reconciliation with the regulators in each of the Utility segment’s service territories regarding the costs of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs during any period in which there has been a substantial upward spike in these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs could have a material adverse effect on cash flow and earnings. In addition, even when Distribution Corporation is allowed full recovery of these purchased gas costs, during periods when natural gas prices are significantly higher than historical levels, customers may have trouble paying the resulting higher bills, and Distribution Corporation’s bad debt expenses may increase and ultimately reduce earnings. 13 Table of Contents Uncertain economic conditions may affect National Fuel’s ability to finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt. National Fuel’s ability to finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt will depend upon general economic conditions in the capital markets. The direction in which interest rates may move is uncertain. Declining interest rates have generally been believed to be favorable to utilities, while rising interest rates are generally believed to be unfavorable, because of the levels of debt that utilities may have outstanding. In addition, National Fuel’s authorized rate of return in its regulated businesses is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, National Fuel’s authorized rate of return could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, National Fuel’s ability to earn its authorized rate of return may be adversely impacted. Decreased oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect revenues, cash flows and profitability. National Fuel’s exploration and production operations are materially dependent on prices received for its oil and natural gas production. Both short-term and long-term price trends affect the economics of exploring for, developing, producing, gathering and processing oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices can be volatile and can be affected by: weather conditions, including natural disasters; the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product demand; national and worldwide economic conditions, including economic disruptions caused by terrorist activities, acts of war or major accidents; political conditions in foreign countries; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on, transportation facilities; regional levels of supply and demand; energy conservation measures; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation, royalties, and price controls. National Fuel sells most of its oil and natural gas at current market prices rather than through fixed-price contracts, although as discussed below, National Fuel frequently hedges the price of a significant portion of its future production in the financial markets. The prices National Fuel receives depend upon factors beyond National Fuel’s control, including the factors affecting price mentioned above. National Fuel believes that any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices would restrict its ability to continue the level of activity National Fuel otherwise would pursue, which could have a material adverse effect on its revenues, cash flows and results of operations.* National Fuel has significant transactions involving price hedging of its oil and natural gas production. In order to protect itself to some extent against unusual price volatility and to lock in fixed pricing on oil and natural gas production for certain periods of time, National Fuel periodically enters into commodity price derivatives contracts (hedging arrangements) with respect to a portion of its expected production. These contracts may at any time cover as much as approximately 70% of National Fuel’s expected energy production during the upcoming 12 month period. These contracts reduce exposure to subsequent price drops but can also limit National Fuel’s ability to benefit from increases in commodity prices. In addition, under the applicable accounting rules, such hedging arrangements are subject to quarterly effectiveness tests. Inherent within those effectiveness tests are assumptions concerning the long-term price differential between different types of crude oil, assumptions concerning the difference between published natural gas price indexes established by pipelines in which hedged natural gas production is delivered and the reference price established in the hedging arrangements, and assumptions regarding the levels of production that will be achieved. Depending on market conditions for natural gas and crude oil and the levels of production actually achieved, it is possible that certain of those assumptions may change in the future, and, depending on the magnitude of any such changes, it is possible that a portion of the Company’s hedges may no longer be considered highly effective. In that case, gains or losses from the ineffective derivative financial instruments would be marked-to-market on the income statement without regard to an underlying physical transaction. Gains would occur to the extent that hedge prices exceed market prices, and losses would occur to the extent that market prices exceed hedge prices. Use of energy commodity price hedges also exposes National Fuel to the risk of non-performance by a contract counterparty. National Fuel carefully evaluates the financial strength of all contract counterparties, but these parties might not be able to perform their obligations under the hedge arrangements. 14 Table of Contents It is National Fuel’s policy that the use of commodity derivatives contracts be strictly confined to the price hedging of existing and forecast production, and National Fuel maintains a system of internal controls to monitor compliance with its policy. However, unauthorized speculative trades could occur that may expose National Fuel to substantial losses to cover positions in these contracts. In addition, in the event actual production falls short of hedged forecast production, the Company may incur substantial losses to cover its hedges. You should not place undue reliance on reserve information because such information represents estimates. This Form 10-K contains estimates of National Fuel’s proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows from those reserves that were prepared by National Fuel’s petroleum engineers and audited by independent petroleum engineers. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating National Fuel’s oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. These factors include: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and assumptions concerning oil and natural gas prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures. Lower oil and natural gas prices generally cause estimates of proved reserves to be lower. Estimates of reserves and expected future cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may differ substantially. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures relating to National Fuel’s reserves will vary from any estimates, and these variations may be material. Accordingly, the accuracy of National Fuel’s reserve estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. If conditions remain constant, then National Fuel is reasonably certain that its reserve estimates represent economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. If conditions change in the future, then subsequent reserve estimates may be revised accordingly. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from National Fuel’s proved reserves is the current market value of National Fuel’s estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, National Fuel bases the estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved reserves on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate. Any significant price changes will have a material effect on the present value of National Fuel’s reserves. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and other hydrocarbons that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Future economic and operating conditions are uncertain, and changes in those conditions could cause a revision to National Fuel’s future reserve estimates. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including historical production from the area compared with production from other comparable producing areas, and the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, the timing of the recovery of oil and natural gas reserves, the production and operating costs incurred, the amount and timing of future development expenditures, and the price received for the production. The amount and timing of actual future oil and natural gas production and the cost of drilling are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates, which may reduce National Fuel’s earnings. There are many risks in developing oil and natural gas, including numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The future success of National Fuel’s Exploration and Production segment depends on its ability to develop additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable, and its failure to do so may reduce National Fuel’s earnings. The total and timing of actual future production may 15 Table of Contents vary significantly from reserves and production estimates. National Fuel’s drilling of development wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, success rates, and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by lease and rig availability, geology, and other factors. Drilling for natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Also, title problems, weather conditions, governmental requirements, and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services can delay drilling operations or result in their cancellation. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive or National Fuel may not recover all or any portion of its investment. Without continued successful exploitation or acquisition activities, National Fuel’s reserves and revenues will decline as a result of its current reserves being depleted by production. National Fuel cannot assure you that it will be able to find or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. Financial accounting requirements regarding exploration and production activities may affect National Fuel’s profitability. National Fuel accounts for its exploration and production activities under the full cost method of accounting. Each quarter, on a country-by-country basis, National Fuel must compare the level of its unamortized investment in oil and natural gas properties to the present value of the future net revenue projected to be recovered from those properties according to methods prescribed by the SEC. In determining present value, the Company uses quarter-end spot prices for oil and natural gas. If, at the end of any quarter, the amount of the unamortized investment exceeds the net present value of the projected future revenues, such investment may be considered to be “impaired,” and the full cost accounting rules require that the investment must be written down to the calculated net present value. Such an instance would require National Fuel to recognize an immediate expense in that quarter, and its earnings would be reduced. The event that had the most significant impact in 2006, and the main reason for the significant earnings decrease over 2005, was the Exploration and Production segment recording after-tax impairment charges totaling $68.6 million related to its Canadian oil and gas assets during 2006 under the full cost method of accounting. Because of the variability in National Fuel’s investment in oil and natural gas properties and the volatile nature of commodity prices, National Fuel cannot predict when in the future it may again be affected by such an impairment calculation. Environmental regulation significantly affects National Fuel’s business. National Fuel’s business operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations (including those of Canada) relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations concern the generation, storage, transportation, disposal or discharge of contaminants into the environment and the general protection of public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment. Costs of compliance and liabilities could negatively affect National Fuel’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, compliance with environmental laws and regulations could require unexpected capital expenditures at National Fuel’s facilities. Because the costs of complying with environmental regulations are significant, additional regulation could negatively affect National Fuel’s business. Although National Fuel cannot predict the impact of the interpretation or enforcement of EPA standards or other federal, state and local regulations, National Fuel’s costs could increase if environmental laws and regulations become more strict. The nature of National Fuel’s operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. National Fuel’s operations are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as: fires; natural disasters; explosions; formations with abnormal pressures; blowouts; collapses of wellbore casing or other tubulars; pipeline ruptures; spills; and other hazards and risks that may cause personal injury, death, property damage, environmental damage or business interruption losses. Additionally, National Fuel’s facilities, machinery, and equipment may be subject to sabotage. Any of these events could cause a loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, claims for personal injury, death, property damage or business interruption, or governmental investigations, recommendations, claims, fines or penalties. As protection against operational hazards, National Fuel maintains insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. In addition, many of the 16 Table of Contents agreements that National Fuel executes with contractors provide for the division of responsibilities between the contractor and National Fuel, and National Fuel seeks to obtain an indemnification from the contractor for certain of these risks. National Fuel is not always able, however, to secure written agreements with its contractors that contain indemnification, and sometimes National Fuel is required to indemnify others. Insurance or indemnification agreements when obtained may not adequately protect National Fuel against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, the imposition of fines, penalties or mandated programs by governmental authorities, the failure of a contractor to meet its indemnification obligations, or the failure of an insurance company to pay valid claims could result in substantial losses to National Fuel. In addition, insurance may not be available, or if available may not be adequate, to cover any or all of these risks. It is also possible that insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive. Due to large insurance losses caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, the insurance industry has significantly increased premiums for insurance on Gulf of Mexico properties, and has reduced the limits typically available for windstorm damage. As a result, National Fuel has determined that it is not economical to purchase insurance to fully cover its exposures in the Gulf of Mexico in the event of a named windstorm. National Fuel has procured named windstorm coverage in an amount equal to approximately three times the estimated physical damage loss sustained by National Fuel as a result of named windstorms during the 2005 hurricane season, subject to a deductible of $2 million per occurrence. No assurance can be given, however, that such amount will be sufficient to cover losses that may occur in the future. Hazards and risks faced by National Fuel, and insurance and indemnification obtained or provided by National Fuel, may subject National Fuel to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties against National Fuel or be resolved on unfavorable terms, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on National Fuel’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. National Fuel may be adversely affected by economic conditions. Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect National Fuel’s revenues and cash flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in National Fuel’s utility service territories also impact its collections of accounts receivable. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 