Item 1A Risk Factors As a holding company, the Company depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. The Company is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries. In order to meet its financial needs, the Company relies exclusively on repayments of principal and interest on intercompany loans made by the Company to its operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from the subsidiaries. Such operating subsidiaries may not generate sufficient net income to pay upstream dividends or generate sufficient cash flow to make payments of principal or interest on such intercompany loans. The Company is dependent on credit markets to successfully execute its business strategies. The Company relies upon short-term bank borrowings, commercial paper markets and longer-term capital markets to finance capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from operations. The Company is dependent on these capital sources to provide capital to its subsidiaries to fund operations, acquire, maintain and develop properties, and execute growth strategies. The availability and cost of credit sources may be cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to the Company. Turmoil in credit markets may make it difficult for the Company to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and other investments, or to refinance maturing debt on favorable terms. These difficulties could adversely affect the Company’s growth strategies, operations and financial performance. The Company’s ability to borrow under its credit facilities and commercial paper agreements, and its ability to issue long-term debt under its indentures, depend on the Company’s compliance with its obligations under the facilities, agreements and indentures. In addition, the Company’s short-term bank loans are in the form of floating rate debt or debt that may have rates fixed for very short periods of time, resulting in exposure to interest rate fluctuations in the absence of interest rate hedging transactions. The cost of long-term debt, the interest rates on the Company’s short-term bank loans and the ability of the Company to issue commercial paper are affected by its debt credit ratings published by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service (“S&P”), Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings Service. A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could increase borrowing costs and negatively impact the availability of capital from banks, commercial paper purchasers and other sources. The Company may be adversely affected by economic conditions and their impact on our suppliers and customers. Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and cash flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in the Company’s utility service territories and energy marketing territories also impact its collections of accounts receivable. All of the Company’s segments are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness or performance of key suppliers and customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets. These conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers or customers. For example, counterparties to the Company’s commodity hedging arrangements or commodity sales contracts might not be able to perform their obligations under these arrangements or contracts. Customers of the Company’s Utility and Energy Marketing segments may have particular trouble paying their bills during periods of declining economic activity and high commodity prices, potentially resulting in increased bad debt expense and reduced earnings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s credit ratings may not reflect all the risks of an investment in its securities. The Company’s credit ratings are an independent assessment of its ability to pay its obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in the Company’s credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the specific debt instruments that are rated, as well as the market value of the Company’s common stock. The 11 Company’s credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact on the value of its common stock of risks related to structural, market or other factors discussed in this Form 10-K. The Company’s need to comply with comprehensive, complex, and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase its costs and limit its revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings. While the Company generally refers to its Utility segment and its Pipeline and Storage segment as its “regulated segments,” there are many governmental regulations that have an impact on almost every aspect of the Company’s businesses. Existing statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to the Company, which may increase the Company’s costs or affect its business in ways that the Company cannot predict. In the Company’s Utility segment, the operations of Distribution Corporation are subject to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC, the PaPUC and, with respect to certain transactions, the FERC. The NYPSC and the PaPUC, among other things, approve the rates that Distribution Corporation may charge to its utility customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Distribution Corporation may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. If Distribution Corporation is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its utility customers, or to the extent Distribution Corporation is unable to obtain approval for rate increases from these regulators, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs (including costs that may be incurred in connection with governmental investigations or proceedings or mandated infrastructure inspection, maintenance or replacement programs), earnings may decrease. In addition to their historical methods of utility regulation, both the PaPUC and NYPSC have established competitive markets in which customers may purchase gas commodity from unregulated marketers, in addition to utility companies. Retail competition for gas commodity service does not pose an acute competitive threat for Distribution Corporation, because in both jurisdictions, it recovers its cost of service through delivery rates and charges, and not through any mark-up on the gas commodity purchased by its customers. Over the longer run, however, rate design changes resulting from further customer migration to marketer service (“unbundling”) can expose utilities such as Distribution Corporation to stranded costs and revenue erosion in the absence of compensating rate relief. Both the NYPSC and the PaPUC have instituted proceedings for the purpose of promoting conservation of energy commodities, including natural gas. In New York, Distribution Corporation implemented a Conservation Incentive Program that promotes conservation and efficient use of natural gas by offering customer rebates for high-efficiency appliances, among other things. The intent of conservation and efficiency programs is to reduce customer usage of natural gas. Under traditional volumetric rates, reduced usage by customers results in decreased revenues to the Utility. To prevent revenue erosion caused by conservation, the NYPSC approved a “revenue decoupling mechanism” that renders Distribution Corporation’s New York division financially indifferent to the effects of conservation. In Pennsylvania, although a generic statewide proceeding is pending, the PaPUC has not yet directed Distribution Corporation to implement conservation measures. If the NYPSC were to revoke the revenue decoupling mechanism in a future proceeding or the PaPUC were to adopt a conservation program without a revenue decoupling mechanism or other changes in rate design, reduced customer usage could decrease revenues, forcing Distribution Corporation to file for rate relief. In New York, aggressive generic statewide programs created under the label of efficiency or conservation continue to generate a sizable utility funding requirement for state agencies that administer those programs. Although utilities are authorized to recover the cost of efficiency and conservation program funding through special rates and surcharges, the resulting upward pressure on customer rates, coupled with increased assessments and taxes, could affect future tolerance for traditional utility rate increases, especially if natural gas commodity costs were to increase. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to Supply Corporation, Empire and some transactions performed by other Company subsidiaries, including Seneca Resources, Distribution Corporation and NFR. The FERC, among other things, approves the rates that Supply Corporation and Empire may charge to their natural gas transportation and/or storage customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Supply Corporation and Empire may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. State 12 commissions can also petition the FERC to investigate whether Supply Corporation’s and Empire’s rates are still just and reasonable, and if not, to reduce those rates prospectively. If Supply Corporation or Empire is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its natural gas transportation and/or storage customers, or if Supply Corporation or Empire is unable to obtain approval for rate increases, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs, Supply Corporation’s or Empire’s earnings may decrease. The FERC also possesses significant penalty authority with respect to violations of the laws and regulations it administers. Supply Corporation, Empire and, to the extent subject to FERC jurisdiction, the Company’s other subsidiaries are subject to the FERC’s penalty authority. In the wake of certain pipeline accidents not involving the Company, new laws or regulations may be adopted regarding pipeline safety. Proposals have been made at the federal level with respect to matters such as reporting of pipeline accidents, increased fines for pipeline safety violations, the designation of additional high consequence areas along pipelines, minimum requirements for leak detection systems, installation of emergency flow restricting devices, and revision of valve spacing requirements. In addition, unrelated to these safety initiatives, the EPA in April 2010 issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking reassessing its regulations governing the use and distribution in commerce of PCBs. The EPA is considering, among other things, a proposal to eliminate by 2020 the PCB use authorization for natural gas pipeline systems, and a proposal to eliminate the authorization for storage of PCB-containing equipment for reuse. The EPA projects that it may issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in March 2012. If as a result of new laws or regulations the Company incurs material costs that it is unable to recover fully through rates or otherwise offset, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected. The Company’s liquidity, and in certain circumstances, its earnings, could be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly. Tariff rate schedules in each of the Utility segment’s service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses which permit Distribution Corporation to file with state regulators for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Assuming those rate adjustments are granted, increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on profit margins. Nevertheless, increases in the cost of purchased gas affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount or availability of the Company’s capital resources. The Company has issued commercial paper and used short-term borrowings in the past to temporarily finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and although the Company expects to do so in the future, it may not be able to access the markets for such borrowings at attractive interest rates or at all. Distribution Corporation is required to file an accounting reconciliation with the regulators in each of the Utility segment’s service territories regarding the costs of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs during any period in which there has been a substantial upward spike in these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs could have a material adverse effect on cash flow and earnings. In addition, even when Distribution Corporation is allowed full recovery of these purchased gas costs, during periods when natural gas prices are significantly higher than historical levels, customers may have trouble paying the resulting higher bills, and Distribution Corporation’s bad debt expenses may increase and ultimately reduce earnings. Changes in interest rates may affect the Company’s ability to finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt. The Company’s ability to finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt will depend in part upon interest rates. The direction in which interest rates may move is uncertain. Declining interest rates have generally been believed to be favorable to utilities, while rising interest rates are generally believed to be unfavorable, because of the levels of debt that utilities may have outstanding. In addition, the Company’s authorized rate of return in its regulated businesses is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, the Company’s authorized rate of return could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, the Company’s ability to earn its authorized rate of return may be adversely impacted. 13 Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect revenues, cash flows and profitability. Operations in the Company’s Exploration and Production segment are materially dependent on prices received for its oil and natural gas production. Both short-term and long-term price trends affect the economics of exploring for, developing, producing, gathering and processing oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices can be volatile and can be affected by: weather conditions, including natural disasters; the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product demand; national and worldwide economic conditions, including economic disruptions caused by terrorist activities, acts of war or major accidents; political conditions in foreign countries; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on transportation facilities; regional levels of supply and demand; energy conservation measures; and government regulations, such as regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and natural gas transportation, royalties, and price controls. The Company sells most of the oil and natural gas that it produces at current market prices rather than through fixed-price contracts, although as discussed below, the Company frequently hedges the price of a significant portion of its future production in the financial markets. The prices the Company receives depend upon factors beyond the Company’s control, including the factors affecting price mentioned above. The Company believes that any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices could restrict its ability to continue the level of exploration and production activity the Company otherwise would pursue, which could have a material adverse effect on its revenues, cash flows and results of operations. In the Company’s Pipeline and Storage segment, significant changes in the price differential between equivalent quantities of natural gas at different geographic locations or between futures contracts for natural gas having different delivery dates could adversely impact the Company. For example, if the price of natural gas at a particular receipt point on the Company’s pipeline system increases relative to the price of natural gas at other locations, then the volume of natural gas received by the Company at the relatively more expensive receipt point may decrease, or the price the Company charges to transport that natural gas may decrease. Additionally, if the prices of natural gas futures contracts for winter deliveries to locations served by the Pipeline and Storage segment decline relative to the prices of such contracts for summer deliveries (for example, as a result of increased production of natural gas within the Pipeline and Storage segment’s geographic area), then demand for the Company’s natural gas storage services driven by that price differential could decrease. These changes could adversely affect revenues, cash flows and results of operations. The Company has significant transactions involving price hedging of its oil and natural gas production as well as its fixed price purchase and sale commitments. In order to protect itself to some extent against unusual price volatility and to lock in fixed pricing on oil and natural gas production for certain periods of time, the Company’s Exploration and Production segment regularly enters into commodity price derivatives contracts (hedging arrangements) with respect to a portion of its expected production. These contracts may at any time cover as much as approximately 80% of the Company’s expected energy production during the upcoming 12-month period. These contracts reduce exposure to subsequent price drops but can also limit the Company’s ability to benefit from increases in commodity prices. In addition, the Energy Marketing segment enters into certain hedging arrangements, primarily with respect to its fixed price purchase and sales commitments and its gas stored underground. The Company’s Pipeline and Storage segment enters into hedging arrangements with respect to certain sales of efficiency gas. Under applicable accounting rules currently in effect, the Company’s hedging arrangements are subject to quarterly effectiveness tests. Inherent within those effectiveness tests are assumptions concerning the long-term price differential between different types of crude oil, assumptions concerning the difference between published natural gas price indexes established by pipelines in which hedged natural gas production is delivered and the reference price established in the hedging arrangements, assumptions regarding the levels of production that will be achieved and, with regard to fixed price commitments, assumptions regarding the creditworthiness of certain customers and their forecasted consumption of natural gas. Depending on market conditions for natural gas and crude oil and the levels of production actually achieved, it is possible that certain of those assumptions may change in the future, and, depending on the magnitude of any such changes, it is possible that a portion of the Company’s hedges may no longer be considered highly effective. In that case, gains or losses from the ineffective derivative financial instruments would be marked-to-market on the income statement without 14 regard to an underlying physical transaction. Gains would occur to the extent that natural gas and crude oil hedge prices exceed market prices for the Company’s natural gas and crude oil production, and losses would occur to the extent that market prices for the Company’s natural gas and crude oil production exceed hedge prices. Use of energy commodity price hedges also exposes the Company to the risk of non-performance by a contract counterparty. These parties might not be able to perform their obligations under the hedge arrangements. It is the Company’s policy that the use of commodity derivatives contracts comply with various restrictions in effect in respective business segments. For example, in the Exploration and Production segment, commodity derivatives contracts must be confined to the price hedging of existing and forecast production, and in the Energy Marketing segment, commodity derivatives with respect to fixed price purchase and sales commitments must be matched against commitments reasonably certain to be fulfilled. Similar restrictions apply in the Pipeline and Storage segment. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to monitor compliance with its policy. However, unauthorized speculative trades, if they were to occur, could expose the Company to substantial losses to cover positions in its derivatives contracts. In addition, in the event the Company’s actual production of oil and natural gas falls short of hedged forecast production, the Company may incur substantial losses to cover its hedges. You should not place undue reliance on reserve information because such information represents estimates. This Form 10-K contains estimates of the Company’s proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows from those reserves that were prepared by the Company’s petroleum engineers and audited by independent petroleum engineers. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. These factors include: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and assumptions concerning oil and natural gas prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures. Lower oil and natural gas prices generally cause estimates of proved reserves to be lower. Estimates of reserves and expected future cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may differ substantially. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures relating to the Company’s reserves will vary from any estimates, and these variations may be material. Accordingly, the accuracy of the Company’s reserve estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. If conditions remain constant, then the Company is reasonably certain that its reserve estimates represent economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. If conditions change in the future, then subsequent reserve estimates may be revised accordingly. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from the Company’s proved reserves is the current market value of the Company’s estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements that became effective for the Company with its Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2010, the Company bases the estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved reserves on 12-month average prices for oil and natural gas (based on first day of the month prices and adjusted for hedging) and on costs as of the date of the estimate (under prior SEC requirements, the Company utilized market prices as of the last day of the period). Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate. Any significant price changes will have a material effect on the present value of the Company’s reserves. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and other hydrocarbons that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Future economic and operating conditions are uncertain, and changes in those conditions could cause a revision to the Company’s reserve estimates in the future. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including historical production from the area 15 compared with production from other comparable producing areas, and the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, the timing of the recovery of oil and natural gas reserves, the production and operating costs incurred, the amount and timing of future development and abandonment expenditures, and the price received for the production. The amount and timing of actual future oil and natural gas production and the cost of drilling are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates, which may reduce the Company’s earnings. There are many risks in developing oil and natural gas, including numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The future success of the Company’s Exploration and Production segment depends on its ability to develop additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable, and its failure to do so may reduce the Company’s earnings. The total and timing of actual future production may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates. The Company’s drilling of development wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, success rates, and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by lease and rig availability, geology, and other factors. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from non-productive wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Also, title problems, weather conditions, governmental requirements, including completion of environmental impact analyses and compliance with other environmental laws and regulations, and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services can delay drilling operations or result in their cancellation. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive or the Company may not recover all or any portion of its investment. Production can also be delayed or made uneconomic if there is insufficient gathering, processing and transportation capacity available at an economic price to get that production to a location where it can be profitably sold. Without continued successful exploitation or acquisition activities, the Company’s reserves and revenues will decline as a result of its current reserves being depleted by production. The Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to find or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. Financial accounting requirements regarding exploration and production activities may affect the Company’s profitability. The Company accounts for its exploration and production activities under the full cost method of accounting. Each quarter, the Company must compare the level of its unamortized investment in oil and natural gas properties to the present value of the future net revenue projected to be recovered from those properties according to methods prescribed by the SEC. In determining present value, the Company uses 12-month average prices for oil and natural gas (based on first day of the month prices and adjusted for hedging). If, at the end of any quarter, the amount of the unamortized investment exceeds the net present value of the projected future cash flows, such investment may be considered to be “impaired,” and the full cost accounting rules require that the investment must be written down to the calculated net present value. Such an instance would require the Company to recognize an immediate expense in that quarter, and its earnings would be reduced. Depending on the magnitude of any decrease in average prices, that charge could be material. Environmental regulation significantly affects the Company’s business. The Company’s business operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations concern the generation, storage, transportation, disposal or discharge of contaminants and greenhouse gases into the environment, the reporting of such matters, and the general protection of public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment. Costs of compliance and liabilities could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, compliance with environmental laws and regulations could require unexpected capital expenditures at the Company’s facilities or delay or cause the cancellation of expansion projects or oil and natural gas drilling 16 activities. Because the costs of complying with environmental regulations are significant, additional regulation could negatively affect the Company’s business. Although the Company cannot predict the impact of the interpretation or enforcement of EPA standards or other federal, state and local laws or regulations, the Company’s costs could increase if environmental laws and regulations change. Legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The EPA has determined that stationary sources of significant greenhouse gas emissions will be required under the federal Clean Air Act to obtain permits covering such emissions beginning in January 2011. In addition, the U.S. Congress has been considering bills that would establish a cap-and-trade program to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Legislation or regulation that restricts greenhouse gas emissions could increase the Company’s cost of environmental compliance by requiring the Company to install new equipment to reduce emissions from larger facilities and/or purchase emission allowances. International, federal, state or regional climate change and greenhouse gas initiatives could also delay or otherwise negatively affect efforts to obtain permits and other regulatory approvals with regard to existing and new facilities, or impose additional monitoring and reporting requirements. Climate change and greenhouse gas initiatives, and incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could also reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The effect (material or not) on the Company of any new legislative or regulatory measures will depend on the particular provisions that are ultimately adopted. Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could adversely impact the Company. Due to the burgeoning Marcellus Shale natural gas play in the northeast United States, together with the fiscal difficulties faced by state governments in New York and Pennsylvania, various state legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding the exploration and production business have been proposed. These initiatives include potential new or updated statutes and regulations governing the drilling, casing, cementing, testing and monitoring of wells, the protection of water supplies, hydraulic fracturing of wells, surface owners’ rights and damage compensation, the spacing of wells, and environmental and safety issues regarding natural gas pipelines. New severance taxes for oil and gas production are also possible. Additionally, legislative initiatives in the U.S. Congress and regulatory studies, proceedings or initiatives at federal or state agencies focused on the hydraulic fracturing process could result in additional permitting, compliance, reporting and disclosure requirements. If adopted, any such new state or federal legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risks of litigation for the Company’s Exploration and Production segment. The nature of the Company’s operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s operations in its various reporting segments are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as: fires; natural disasters; explosions; geological formations with abnormal pressures; blowouts during well drilling; collapses of wellbore casing or other tubulars; pipeline ruptures; spills; and other hazards and risks that may cause personal injury, death, property damage, environmental damage or business interruption losses. Additionally, the Company’s facilities, machinery, and equipment may be subject to sabotage. Any of these events could cause a loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, claims for personal injury, death, property damage or business interruption, or governmental investigations, recommendations, claims, fines or penalties. As protection against operational hazards, the Company maintains insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. In addition, many of the agreements that the Company executes with contractors provide for the division of responsibilities between the contractor and the Company, and the Company seeks to obtain an indemnification from the contractor for certain of these risks. The Company is not always able, however, to secure written agreements with its contractors that contain indemnification, and sometimes the Company is required to indemnify others. Insurance or indemnification agreements when obtained may not adequately protect the Company against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, the imposition of fines, penalties or mandated programs by governmental 17 authorities, the failure of a contractor to meet its indemnification obligations, or the failure of an insurance company to pay valid claims could result in substantial losses to the Company. In addition, insurance may not be available, or if available may not be adequate, to cover any or all of these risks. It is also possible that insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive. Due to the significant cost of insurance coverage for named windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico, the Company determined that it was not economical to purchase insurance to fully cover its exposures related to such storms. It is possible that named windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Hazards and risks faced by the Company, and insurance and indemnification obtained or provided by the Company, may subject the Company to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties against the Company or be resolved on unfavorable terms, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect the Company’s results. The Company’s earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense it expends or records for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns and factors used to determine the value and current costs of plan benefit obligations. In addition, if medical costs rise at a rate faster than the general inflation rate, the Company might not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Increases to the costs of pension, other post-retirement and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. Significant shareholders or potential shareholders may attempt to effect changes at the Company or acquire control over the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In January 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with New Mountain Vantage GP, L.L.C. (“New Mountain”) and certain parties related to New Mountain, including the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (collectively, “Vantage”), to settle a proxy contest pertaining to the election of directors to the Company’s Board of Directors at the Company’s 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. That settlement agreement expired on September 15, 2009. Vantage or other existing or potential shareholders may engage in proxy solicitations or advance shareholder proposals after the Company’s 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over the Company. Campaigns by shareholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting the Company’s operations and diverting the attention of the Company’s Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies. As a result, shareholder campaigns could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 