Item 1A Risk Factors As a holding company, National Fuel depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. National Fuel is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries. In order to meet its financial needs, National Fuel relies exclusively on repayments of principal and interest on intercompany loans made by National Fuel to its operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from the subsidiaries. Such operating subsidiaries may not generate sufficient net income to pay upstream dividends or generate sufficient cash flow to make payments of principal or interest on such intercompany loans. Recent disruptions in financial markets may affect National Fuel’s ability to obtain financing or refinance maturing debt on reasonable terms and may have other adverse effects. Widely-documented disruptions in financial markets have resulted in a severe tightening of credit availability in the United States. Liquidity in credit markets has contracted significantly, making terms for certain financings less attractive. Ongoing turmoil in the credit markets may make it difficult for National Fuel to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and other investments and to refinance maturing debt on favorable terms. These difficulties could adversely affect National Fuel’s operations and financial performance. National Fuel is dependent on bank credit facilities and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. In addition to its longer term debt that is issued to the public under its indentures, National Fuel relies upon shorter term bank borrowings and commercial paper to finance a portion of its operations. National Fuel is dependent on these capital sources to provide capital to its subsidiaries to allow them to acquire, maintain and develop their properties. The availability and cost of these credit sources is cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to National Fuel or National Fuel may not be able to obtain money at a reasonable cost in the future. Recent access to the commercial paper markets has been on less favorable terms as a result of ongoing turmoil in the credit markets, and the commercial paper markets may not consistently be a reliable source of short-term financing for National Fuel in the future. National Fuel’s ability to borrow under its credit facilities and commercial paper agreements depends on National Fuel’s compliance with its obligations under the facilities and agreements. In addition, all of National Fuel’s short-term bank loans are in the form of floating rate debt or debt that may have rates fixed for very short periods of time. At present, National Fuel has no active interest rate hedges in place to protect against interest rate fluctuations on short-term bank debt. In addition, the interest rates on National Fuel’s short-term bank loans and the ability of National Fuel to issue commercial paper are affected by its debt credit ratings published by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service (“S&P”), Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings Service. On October 15, 2008, National Fuel’s senior unsecured credit rating of BBB+ was placed on CreditWatch-with negative implications by S&P. A ratings downgrade could increase the interest cost of debt issued by National Fuel and decrease future availability of money from banks, commercial paper purchasers and other sources. National Fuel’s debt securities are currently rated at investment grade and the Company believes it is important to maintain investment grade credit ratings to conduct its business. National Fuel may be adversely affected by economic conditions and their impact on our suppliers and customers. Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect National Fuel’s revenues and cash flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in National Fuel’s utility service territories and energy marketing territories also impact its collections of accounts receivable. All of National Fuel’s segments are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness or performance of key suppliers and customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets. These conditions could result in financial 12 Table of Contents instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers or customers. For example, counterparties to National Fuel’s commodity hedging arrangements might not be able to perform their obligations under these arrangements. Customers of National Fuel’s Utility and Energy Marketing segments may have particular trouble paying their bills during periods of declining economic activity and high commodity prices, potentially resulting in increased bad debt expense and reduced earnings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on National Fuel’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect National Fuel’s results. National Fuel’s earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense it expends or records for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for pension plans, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns and factors used to determine the value and current costs of plan benefit obligations. In addition, if medical costs rise at a rate faster than the general inflation rate, National Fuel might not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on National Fuel’s financial results. National Fuel’s credit ratings may not reflect all the risks of an investment in its securities. National Fuel’s credit ratings are an independent assessment of its ability to pay its obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in the Company’s credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the specific debt instruments that are rated, as well as the market value of the Company’s common stock. National Fuel’s credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact on the value of its common stock of risks related to structural, market or other factors discussed in this Form 10-K. National Fuel’s need to comply with comprehensive, complex, and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase its costs and limit its revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings. While National Fuel generally refers to its Utility segment and its Pipeline and Storage segment as its “regulated segments,” there are many governmental regulations that have an impact on almost every aspect of National Fuel’s businesses. Existing statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to the Company, which may affect its business in ways that the Company cannot predict. In its Utility segment, the operations of Distribution Corporation are subject to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC and the PaPUC. The NYPSC and the PaPUC, among other things, approve the rates that Distribution Corporation may charge to its utility customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Distribution Corporation may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. If Distribution Corporation is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its utility customers, or if Distribution Corporation is unable to obtain approval for rate increases from these regulators, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs (including costs that may be incurred in connection with governmental investigations or proceedings or mandated infrastructure inspection, maintenance or replacement programs), earnings may decrease. In addition to their historical methods of utility regulation, both the PaPUC and NYPSC have sought to establish competitive markets in which customers may purchase supplies of gas from marketers, rather than from utility companies. In June 1999, the Governor of Pennsylvania signed into law the Natural Gas Choice and Competition Act. The Act revised the Public Utility Code relating to the restructuring of the natural gas industry, to permit consumer choice of natural gas suppliers. The early programs instituted to comply with the Act did not result in significant change, and many residential customers currently continue to purchase natural gas from the utility companies. In October 2005, the PaPUC concluded that “effective competition” does not exist in the retail natural gas supply market statewide. On September 11, 2008, the PaPUC adopted a Final Order and Action Plan designed to “increase effective competition in the retail market for natural gas services.” The plan sets forth a schedule of action items for utilities and the PaPUC in order to remove “barriers in the market structure” that, in the opinion of the PaPUC, prevented the full participation of unregulated natural gas 13 Table of Contents suppliers in Pennsylvania retail markets. In New York, in August 2004, the NYPSC issued its Statement of Policy on Further Steps Toward Competition in Retail Energy Markets. This policy statement has a similar goal of encouraging customer choice of alternative natural gas providers. In 2005, the NYPSC stepped up its efforts to encourage customer choice at the retail residential level, and customer choice activities increased in Distribution Corporation’s New York service territory. In April 2007, the NYPSC, noting that the retail energy marketplace in New York is established and continuing to expand, commenced a review to determine if existing programs initially designed to promote competition had outlived their usefulness and whether the cost of programs currently funded by utility rate payers should be shifted to market competitors. Increased retail choice activities, to the extent they occur, may increase Distribution Corporation’s cost of doing business, put an additional portion of its business at regulatory risk, and create uncertainty for the future, all of which may make it more difficult to manage Distribution Corporation’s business profitably. Both the NYPSC and the PaPUC have instituted proceedings for the purpose of promoting conservation of energy commodities, including natural gas. In New York, Distribution Corporation implemented a Conservation Incentive Program that promotes conservation and efficient use of natural gas by offering customer rebates for high-efficiency appliances, among other things. The intent of conservation and efficiency programs is to reduce customer usage of natural gas. Under traditional volumetric rates, reduced usage by customers results in decreased revenues to the Utility. To prevent revenue erosion caused by conservation, the NYPSC approved a “revenue decoupling mechanism” that renders Distribution Corporation’s New York division financially indifferent to the effects of conservation. In Pennsylvania, although a proceeding is pending, the PaPUC has not yet directed Distribution Corporation to implement conservation measures. If the NYPSC were to revoke the revenue decoupling mechanism in a future proceeding or the PaPUC were to adopt a conservation program without a revenue decoupling mechanism or other changes in rate design, reduced customer usage could decrease revenues, forcing Distribution Corporation to file for rate relief. In its Pipeline and Storage segment, National Fuel is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to Supply Corporation, and to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC with respect to Empire. The FERC has authorized Empire to construct and operate the Empire Connector project. When Empire completes construction and commences operations of the Empire Connector, Empire will at that time become a FERC-regulated pipeline company. The FERC and the NYPSC, among other things, approve the rates that Supply Corporation and Empire, respectively, may charge to their natural gas transportation and/or storage customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Supply Corporation and Empire may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. State commissions can also petition the FERC to investigate whether Supply Corporation’s rates are still just and reasonable, and if not, to reduce those rates prospectively. If Supply Corporation or Empire is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its natural gas transportation and/or storage customers, or if Supply Corporation or Empire is unable to obtain approval for rate increases, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs, Supply Corporation’s or Empire’s earnings may decrease. National Fuel’s liquidity, and in certain circumstances, its earnings, could be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly. Tariff rate schedules in each of the Utility segment’s service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses which permit Distribution Corporation to file with state regulators for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Assuming those rate adjustments are granted, increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on profit margins. Nevertheless, increases in the cost of purchased gas affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount or availability of National Fuel’s capital resources. National Fuel has issued commercial paper and used short-term borrowings in the past to temporarily finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and although National Fuel expects to do so in the future, it may not be able to access the markets for such borrowings at attractive interest rates or at all. Distribution Corporation is required to file an accounting reconciliation with the regulators in each of the Utility segment’s service territories regarding the costs of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs during any period in which there has been a substantial upward spike in these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs could have a material adverse effect on cash flow and earnings. In addition, even when Distribution Corporation is allowed full recovery of these purchased 14 Table of Contents gas costs, during periods when natural gas prices are significantly higher than historical levels, customers may have trouble paying the resulting higher bills, and Distribution Corporation’s bad debt expenses may increase and ultimately reduce earnings. Changes in interest rates may affect National Fuel’s ability to finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt. National Fuel’s ability to finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt will depend in part upon interest rates. The direction in which interest rates may move is uncertain. Declining interest rates have generally been believed to be favorable to utilities, while rising interest rates are generally believed to be unfavorable, because of the levels of debt that utilities may have outstanding. In addition, National Fuel’s authorized rate of return in its regulated businesses is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, National Fuel’s authorized rate of return could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, National Fuel’s ability to earn its authorized rate of return may be adversely impacted. Decreased oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect revenues, cash flows and profitability. National Fuel’s exploration and production operations are materially dependent on prices received for its oil and natural gas production. Both short-term and long-term price trends affect the economics of exploring for, developing, producing, gathering and processing oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices can be volatile and can be affected by: weather conditions, including natural disasters; the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product demand; national and worldwide economic conditions, including economic disruptions caused by terrorist activities, acts of war or major accidents; political conditions in foreign countries; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on transportation facilities; regional levels of supply and demand; energy conservation measures; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation, royalties, and price controls. National Fuel sells most of its oil and natural gas at current market prices rather than through fixed-price contracts, although as discussed below, National Fuel frequently hedges the price of a significant portion of its future production in the financial markets. The prices National Fuel receives depend upon factors beyond National Fuel’s control, including the factors affecting price mentioned above. National Fuel believes that any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices would restrict its ability to continue the level of exploration and production activity National Fuel otherwise would pursue, which could have a material adverse effect on its revenues, cash flows and results of operations. National Fuel has significant transactions involving price hedging of its oil and natural gas production as well as its fixed price purchase and sale commitments. In order to protect itself to some extent against unusual price volatility and to lock in fixed pricing on oil and natural gas production for certain periods of time, National Fuel periodically enters into commodity price derivatives contracts (hedging arrangements) with respect to a portion of its expected production. These contracts may at any time cover as much as approximately 80% of National Fuel’s expected energy production during the upcoming 12-month period. These contracts reduce exposure to subsequent price drops but can also limit National Fuel’s ability to benefit from increases in commodity prices. In addition, the Energy Marketing segment enters into certain hedging arrangements, primarily with respect to its fixed price purchase and sales commitments and its volumes of gas stored underground. National Fuel’s Pipeline and Storage segment enters into hedging arrangements with respect to certain sales of efficiency gas, and the All Other category has hedging arrangements in place with respect to certain volumes of landfill gas committed for sale. Under applicable accounting rules, the Company’s hedging arrangements are subject to quarterly effectiveness tests. Inherent within those effectiveness tests are assumptions concerning the long-term price differential between different types of crude oil, assumptions concerning the difference between published natural gas price indexes established by pipelines in which hedged natural gas production is delivered and the reference price established in the hedging arrangements, assumptions regarding the levels of production that will be achieved and, with regard to fixed price commitments, assumptions regarding the creditworthiness of 15 Table of Contents certain customers and their forecasted consumption of natural gas. Depending on market conditions for natural gas and crude oil and the levels of production actually achieved, it is possible that certain of those assumptions may change in the future, and, depending on the magnitude of any such changes, it is possible that a portion of the Company’s hedges may no longer be considered highly effective. In that case, gains or losses from the ineffective derivative financial instruments would be marked-to-market on the income statement without regard to an underlying physical transaction. Gains would occur to the extent that natural gas and crude oil hedge prices exceed market prices for the Company’s natural gas and crude oil production, and losses would occur to the extent that market prices for the Company’s natural gas and crude oil production exceed hedge prices. Use of energy commodity price hedges also exposes National Fuel to the risk of non-performance by a contract counterparty. These parties might not be able to perform their obligations under the hedge arrangements. It is National Fuel’s policy that the use of commodity derivatives contracts comply with various restrictions in effect in respective business segments. For example, in the Exploration and Production segment, commodity derivatives contracts must be confined to the price hedging of existing and forecast production, and in the Energy Marketing segment, commodity derivatives with respect to fixed price purchase and sales commitments must be matched against commitments reasonably certain to be fulfilled. Similar restrictions apply in the Pipeline and Storage segment and the All Other category. National Fuel maintains a system of internal controls to monitor compliance with its policy. However, unauthorized speculative trades, if they were to occur, could expose National Fuel to substantial losses to cover positions in its derivatives contracts. In addition, in the event the Company’s actual production of oil and natural gas falls short of hedged forecast production, the Company may incur substantial losses to cover its hedges. You should not place undue reliance on reserve information because such information represents estimates. This Form 10-K contains estimates of National Fuel’s proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows from those reserves that were prepared by National Fuel’s petroleum engineers and audited by independent petroleum engineers. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating National Fuel’s oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. These factors include: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and assumptions concerning oil and natural gas prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures. Lower oil and natural gas prices generally cause estimates of proved reserves to be lower. Estimates of reserves and expected future cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may differ substantially. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures relating to National Fuel’s reserves will vary from any estimates, and these variations may be material. Accordingly, the accuracy of National Fuel’s reserve estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. If conditions remain constant, then National Fuel is reasonably certain that its reserve estimates represent economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. If conditions change in the future, then subsequent reserve estimates may be revised accordingly. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from National Fuel’s proved reserves is the current market value of National Fuel’s estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, National Fuel bases the estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved reserves on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate. Any significant price changes will have a material effect on the present value of National Fuel’s reserves. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and other hydrocarbons that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Future economic and operating conditions are uncertain, and changes in those conditions could cause a revision to National Fuel’s reserve 16 Table of Contents estimates in the future. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including historical production from the area compared with production from other comparable producing areas, and the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, the timing of the recovery of oil and natural gas reserves, the production and operating costs incurred, the amount and timing of future development and abandonment expenditures, and the price received for the production. The amount and timing of actual future oil and natural gas production and the cost of drilling are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates, which may reduce National Fuel’s earnings. There are many risks in developing oil and natural gas, including numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The future success of National Fuel’s Exploration and Production segment depends on its ability to develop additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable, and its failure to do so may reduce National Fuel’s earnings. The total and timing of actual future production may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates. National Fuel’s drilling of development wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, success rates, and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by lease and rig availability, geology, and other factors. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from non-productive wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Also, title problems, weather conditions, governmental requirements, and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services can delay drilling operations or result in their cancellation. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive or National Fuel may not recover all or any portion of its investment. Without continued successful exploitation or acquisition activities, National Fuel’s reserves and revenues will decline as a result of its current reserves being depleted by production. National Fuel cannot assure you that it will be able to find or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. Financial accounting requirements regarding exploration and production activities may affect National Fuel’s profitability. National Fuel accounts for its exploration and production activities under the full cost method of accounting. Each quarter, National Fuel must compare the level of its unamortized investment in oil and natural gas properties to the present value of the future net revenue projected to be recovered from those properties according to methods prescribed by the SEC. In determining present value, the Company uses quarter-end spot prices for oil and natural gas (as adjusted for hedging). If, at the end of any quarter, the amount of the unamortized investment exceeds the net present value of the projected future cash flows, such investment may be considered to be “impaired,” and the full cost accounting rules require that the investment must be written down to the calculated net present value. Such an instance would require National Fuel to recognize an immediate expense in that quarter, and its earnings would be reduced. National Fuel’s Exploration and Production segment last recorded an impairment charge under the full cost method of accounting in 2006. Because of the variability in National Fuel’s investment in oil and natural gas properties and the volatile nature of commodity prices, National Fuel cannot predict when in the future it may again be affected by such an impairment calculation. Environmental regulation significantly affects National Fuel’s business. National Fuel’s business operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations concern the generation, storage, transportation, disposal or discharge of contaminants into the environment and the general protection of public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment. Costs of compliance and liabilities could negatively affect National Fuel’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, compliance with environmental 17 Table of Contents laws and regulations could require unexpected capital expenditures at National Fuel’s facilities. Because the costs of complying with environmental regulations are significant, additional regulation could negatively affect National Fuel’s business. Although National Fuel cannot predict the impact of the interpretation or enforcement of EPA standards or other federal, state and local regulations, National Fuel’s costs could increase if environmental laws and regulations become more strict. The nature of National Fuel’s operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. National Fuel’s operations in its various segments are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as: fires; natural disasters; explosions; geological formations with abnormal pressures; blowouts during well drilling; collapses of wellbore casing or other tubulars; pipeline ruptures; spills; and other hazards and risks that may cause personal injury, death, property damage, environmental damage or business interruption losses. Additionally, National Fuel’s facilities, machinery, and equipment may be subject to sabotage. Any of these events could cause a loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, claims for personal injury, death, property damage or business interruption, or governmental investigations, recommendations, claims, fines or penalties. As protection against operational hazards, National Fuel maintains insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. In addition, many of the agreements that National Fuel executes with contractors provide for the division of responsibilities between the contractor and National Fuel, and National Fuel seeks to obtain an indemnification from the contractor for certain of these risks. National Fuel is not always able, however, to secure written agreements with its contractors that contain indemnification, and sometimes National Fuel is required to indemnify others. Insurance or indemnification agreements when obtained may not adequately protect National Fuel against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, the imposition of fines, penalties or mandated programs by governmental authorities, the failure of a contractor to meet its indemnification obligations, or the failure of an insurance company to pay valid claims could result in substantial losses to National Fuel. In addition, insurance may not be available, or if available may not be adequate, to cover any or all of these risks. It is also possible that insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive. Due to the significant cost of insurance coverage for named windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico, National Fuel determined that it was not economical to purchase insurance to fully cover its exposures related to such storms. It is possible that named windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico could have a material adverse effect on National Fuel’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Hazards and risks faced by National Fuel, and insurance and indemnification obtained or provided by National Fuel, may subject National Fuel to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties against National Fuel or be resolved on unfavorable terms, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on National Fuel’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Significant shareholders or potential shareholders may attempt to effect changes at National Fuel or acquire control over National Fuel, which could adversely affect National Fuel’s results of operations and financial condition. In January 2008, National Fuel entered into an agreement with New Mountain Vantage GP, L.L.C. (“New Mountain”) and certain parties related to New Mountain, including the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (collectively, “Vantage”), to settle a proxy contest pertaining to the election of directors to National Fuel’s Board of Directors at National Fuel’s 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, National Fuel and Vantage agreed, among other things, to a standstill whereby, until September 2009, Vantage will not, among other things, acquire voting securities that would increase its beneficial ownership to more than 9.6% of National Fuel’s voting securities; engage in any proxy solicitations or advance any shareholder proposals; attempt to control National Fuel’s Board of Directors, management or 18 Table of Contents policies; call a meeting of shareholders; obtain additional representation to the Board of Directors; or effect the removal of any member of the Board of Directors. At the end of the standstill period, Vantage may again seek to effect changes at National Fuel or acquire control over National Fuel. In addition, other existing or potential shareholders may engage in proxy solicitations, advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over National Fuel. Campaigns by shareholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value through actions such as changes in strategy or management, changes to the board of directors, restructuring, increased financial leverage, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting National Fuel’s operations and diverting the attention of National Fuel’s Board of Directors and senior management. As a result, shareholder campaigns could adversely affect National Fuel’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 