Item 1A: Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results and Market Price of Stock This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” concerning our business, operations and financial performance and condition. When we use the words “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “plans,” “intends,” “believes” and variations of such words or similar expressions, we intend to identify forward-looking statements. We have based our forward-looking statements on our current assumptions and expectations about future events. We have expressed our assumptions and expectations in good faith, and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them. However, we cannot assure you that our assumptions or expectations will prove to be accurate. 12 Table of Contents A number of risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Important factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements are set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, included under “Item 1A: Business - Risk Factors.” Other factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and, except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Our dependence on the aerospace industry makes us susceptible to negative trends and adverse economic conditions in the aerospace industry. Virtually all of Aviall Services’ net sales and operating income are derived from the sale of parts, components, supplies and services to customers in the global aerospace and defense industries. As a result, Aviall Services’ business is directly affected by trends and economic factors that affect flight activity and costs in the aerospace industry, including fuel prices, economic cycles, inflation, labor demands and political instability and regulatory oversight, as well as other factors that affect flying activity by the U.S. military and its allies. Reduced flight activity and increased fuel and other costs generally result in reduced demand for parts, components, supplies and services by customers in the aerospace industry. Increased fuel and other costs may also affect the financial health and continued viability of our customers in the aerospace industry. Because a high proportion of Aviall Services’ operating costs are relatively fixed, reduced sales have a negative impact on its margins and earnings, as lower gross profits cannot be offset by lower expenses. Further, because we purchase parts, components and supplies from our suppliers in advance of orders from our customers based upon our estimates of future demand, reduced demand may have a materially detrimental impact on our cash flow and earnings. If expected sales do not materialize, our inventory levels may increase, resulting in increased financing requirements and interest expense and reducing the credit available under our senior secured credit facility, or the Credit Facility. Over the past four and a half years, the demand for commercial air transport has been reduced by a global economic slowdown, terrorist attacks and the resulting economic fallout, military activity in Iraq and Afghanistan and record high prices for jet fuel. These factors have accelerated the retirement of older aircraft and caused the deferral of nonessential aircraft maintenance and overhaul services. This in turn has reduced the demand for our parts, components and supplies used on commercial aircraft. In addition, some air operations have been reduced because commercial airlines, airfreight carriers and other commercial airline-related firms around the world and especially domestically have been experiencing large financial losses, which have resulted in many bankruptcies. Although passenger and freight traffic increased in 2005, we cannot predict the extent of recovery of the long-term viability of the global commercial aviation sector, particularly in the U.S. Further, the recovery could be hindered by a number of factors, including slower economic growth, uncertainty, acts of war or terrorism or higher fuel prices. 13 Table of Contents In recent years, we have relied heavily on increased flight activity by U.S. and foreign militaries of aircraft fitted with the RR T56 series engine to offset the decrease in commercial aviation activity. In 2005, we have experienced both a slowing of demand as well as an increase in backorders for RR T56 parts, which has resulted in a decline in RR T56 parts sales. In addition, the U.S. military and certain foreign militaries may not sustain their current levels of flight activity; therefore, the demand for parts and components for military aircraft utilizing the RR T56 engine may be further reduced. As a result, we may be unable to realize fully all of the benefits for the remaining terms that we hope to receive from our RR T56 engine parts agreement with Rolls-Royce. Moreover, if some or all of these militaries were to effect an extensive, protracted grounding of their fleets of C-130 Hercules aircraft, the primary aircraft on which RR T56 engines are fitted, our business would be severely affected. If demand for RR T56 engine parts decreases substantially, our inventory levels of RR T56 engine parts could grow to be larger than needed to support our sales, increasing our financing requirements and interest expense and reducing the credit available under the Credit Facility. During the remainder of 2006 and beyond, we expect to generate significant sales of GE CF6 engine parts. Currently, the end-users of a majority of GE CF6 engine parts consist of a relatively small number of commercial passenger and freight airlines. As a result, our ability to realize fully all of the benefits we hope to receive from the GE CF6 agreement will depend on the continued operation of aircraft using GE CF6 engines by these airlines or by third parties if these airlines discontinue the use of those aircraft. If several of these commercial passenger or freight airlines reduce their demand for GE CF6 engine parts due to economic or other factors or if there is an extensive, protracted grounding of GE CF6 engines or aircraft using GE CF6 engines, our business could be severely affected. In addition, the demand for our parts, components and supplies could decrease if one or more of our significant customers were to eliminate or retire one or more of their fleet types using RR T56 or GE CF6 engines. Further, the demand for our parts, components and supplies could decrease if one or more of our significant customers go out of business. Any decreases in demand for our parts, components and supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. If one or more of these negative trends and adverse economic conditions materializes, we may be required to write-off a portion of our contract rights. At December 31, 2005, our contract rights totaled $221.8 million in the aggregate and are included in intangible assets. If GE terminates the GE CF6 agreement or limits its relationship with us, our business and the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. On January 28, 2005, we entered into the GE CF6 agreement. Subject to earlier termination, the term of this agreement will continue for so long as either GE CF6 engine is used on an airworthy aircraft. However, GE may terminate this agreement if we materially breach it. In general, GE may also terminate this agreement if we are acquired by a competitor of GE’s aircraft engine business or a party that, in GE’s good faith judgment and reasonable discretion, does not have the resources and expertise to perform our obligations under this agreement or does not have a reputation for integrity, sound business ethics and compliance with laws. In addition, GE may terminate this agreement if our delivery performance falls below certain specified levels. In the event that GE discontinues production of the items we sell or terminates or fails to perform under the GE CF6 agreement, and we are otherwise unable to obtain the parts we need to fulfill our customers’ orders, our results of operations would likely be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If GE, Rolls-Royce or Honeywell terminates or limits their relationships with us, our net sales may decline substantially and our business may be materially adversely affected. We have a large, long-term agreement with GE to sell GE CF6 engine parts, and two large, long-term agreements with Rolls-Royce to sell its parts. In addition, we have a series of long-term agreements with Honeywell to sell its parts. During 2005, aggregate sales of products supplied by Rolls-Royce, Honeywell and GE were $840.7 million, or 65% of Aviall’s net sales. We expect these agreements to continue to represent a substantial percentage of our future net sales. While our agreements with Honeywell and Rolls-Royce are ten-year agreements, each of these agreements, unlike the GE CF6 agreement, contains a termination-for-convenience provision. These provisions allow the other party to terminate the agreement on the dates set forth below, subject to receipt of advance written notice and any other specific requirements of the applicable contract, which in some instances include an obligation for the other party to pay a termination fee or repurchase inventory, or both. Supplier Parts Earliest Date for Noticeof Termination forConvenience NoticeRequirement Rolls-Royce RR T56 engine parts January 1, 2007 120 days Rolls-Royce RR 250 engine parts January 1, 2003 120 days Honeywell Hydromechanical controls for RR 250 and Honeywell LT101 series engines January 1, 2002 60 days Honeywell Honeywell ESA and ECS April 1, 2006 60 days Honeywell Honeywell ESA and ECS June 27, 2007 30 days Honeywell Hydromechanical controls for RR T56 engines June 30, 2004 60 days Honeywell Airline and general aviation lighting and electronic products October 1, 2007 60 days GE, Honeywell and Rolls-Royce may also terminate these agreements if we materially breach or fail to make payments under these agreements, or if we become bankrupt or insolvent or commence bankruptcy proceedings. Furthermore, Rolls-Royce may terminate our agreements to provide RR T56 engine parts and RR 250 engine parts upon 120-days’ prior written notice upon a change of control of Rolls-Royce, if we are acquired by a competitor of Rolls-Royce, or if we are acquired by a person that is not a competitor of Rolls-Royce and the acquisition causes our credit rating to fall. The GE CF6 agreement also allows GE to terminate the agreement upon a change of control of Aviall if the acquiring person or entity does not meet certain qualifications. In the event that GE, Rolls-Royce and/or Honeywell discontinues production of the items we sell or terminates or fails to perform under our agreements with them, and we are otherwise unable to obtain the parts we need to fulfill our customers’ orders, our results of operations would likely be materially adversely affected. Our largest customers represent a major percentage of our total business and loss of all or some of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In 2005, Aviall Services’ ten largest customers represented, in the aggregate, approximately 47% of its net sales, and Rolls-Royce, its single largest customer, accounted for approximately 26% of its net sales. The sales to Rolls-Royce relate primarily to its role as prime contractor for supplying RR T56 parts to the U.S. military. The loss of Rolls-Royce or the loss of the business that we conduct through Rolls-Royce with the U.S. military would, and the loss of all or some of these other large customers may, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our corporate headquarters, distribution network hub and approximately 89% of the gross book value of our inventory reside in the same building. If we lose access to, or use of, this building, our business would be interrupted, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our corporate headquarters at DFW Airport is the hub for our distribution network. Approximately 89% of the gross book value of our inventory resides in this building, and we receive and ship the majority of our inventory from this location. If we were unable to access this building for any reason or if this building were destroyed or materially damaged, our business would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, any damage to the building could damage some or all of the inventory stored in the building. If inventory is damaged, the FAA could require us to inspect each item before sale, which could take a protracted amount of time and cause us to lose sales and customers. Any material loss of sales or customers would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While we have a disaster recovery plan to manage the use of our information technology and deal with tele-communications interruptions and other disasters, this plan has not been tested in a disaster-equivalent environment. In addition, we have business interruption insurance to both offset the cost of, and compensate us for, most events that interrupt our operations. However, the coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for all potential losses and the conditions to the coverage may preclude us from obtaining reimbursement for some potential losses. While we have attempted to match our coverage to the most likely potential disasters and events that may interrupt our business, we may not have been able to foresee all the costs and implications of a disaster or other event and, therefore, the coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for our losses. Any material losses for which we are unable to obtain reimbursement may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our significant indebtedness and other contractual obligations may adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2005, we had $283.9 million of debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations. In 2006, we have committed to purchase significant amounts of parts under various distribution agreements. We also have significant obligations under operating leases. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $133.2 million of floating rate borrowings outstanding. In addition, the Credit Facility allowed for up to $175.9 million of additional floating rate borrowings as of December 31, 2005. As a result, our floating rate borrowings could increase dramatically in the future. Future interest rate increases will increase the interest expense on our floating rate borrowings, which may be significant. Our leverage may have important consequences. For example, it may: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our 7.625% senior notes due 2011, or the Senior Notes, the Credit Facility and our other indebtedness; • place us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to fulfill contractual obligations and service payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or the industry in which we compete; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; and • limit our ability to plan for and react to changes in our business and the industry in which we compete. 16 Table of Contents We and our subsidiaries will be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future under the Credit Facility, any debt securities issued under our shelf registration statement and any other debt securities we issue to the extent permitted by the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes. Although the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional debt, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks that we and they now face as a result of our leverage may increase. The terms of our indebtedness could restrict our operations. The terms of our indebtedness, including the Credit Facility, and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to, among other things, incur certain additional debt, make specified payments and capital expenditures, authorize or issue capital stock, enter into transactions with our affiliates, consolidate, merge with or acquire another business, sell certain of our assets or liquidate, dissolve or wind-up our company. In addition, the terms of the Credit Facility require us to achieve and maintain certain specified financial ratios. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in activities which could expand our business, including obtaining future financing, making needed capital expenditures, or taking advantage of business opportunities such as strategic acquisitions and dispositions. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the Credit Facility or the indenture governing the Senior Notes may result in an event of default that may cause acceleration of our indebtedness. Our failure to comply with the covenants and other requirements contained in the indenture governing the Senior Notes, the Credit Facility or our other debt instruments may cause an event of default under the relevant debt instrument. The occurrence of an event of default may trigger a default under our other debt instruments, prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings, and permit the holders of the defaulted debt to declare amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay fully borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, and we may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. An event of default under the Credit Facility or the Senior Notes, particularly if followed by an acceleration of any outstanding amounts, may have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant failure of our computer systems or networks may increase our operating costs significantly, cause us to lose customers and otherwise adversely affect our business. We depend upon our computer systems and networks to deliver our products and services, respond to the needs of our customers, sell and manage our inventory, perform accounting and administrative functions, provide product and other informational services and create ILS’s electronic marketplaces. The success of our businesses depends upon our ability to provide superior reliability, capacity and security for both our Internet-based and dial-up systems. We are continually upgrading our computer networks and software. Our computer systems and networks, and external networks upon which we depend, are subject to factors that may cause interruptions in service or reduce capacity for our customers, including, but not limited to, physical damage, problems upgrading or integrating new hardware or software, power loss, capacity limitations, software defects and breaches of security due to computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. Significant interruptions in service, capacity limitations or security breaches may disrupt our relationships with our suppliers and customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Competition in our industry is intense. If we cannot compete effectively, we may lose market share and our business may otherwise be negatively affected. With respect to Aviall Services, the market for aerospace parts, components and supplies is extremely competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources. Aviall Services competes with independent distributors, redistribution suppliers and aerospace OEMs that, in the aggregate, offer most of the same product lines to the same customers. Many of our existing and potential competitors have greater resources than we have. Also, many of our agreements with our suppliers, including some, like those with Honeywell, are non-exclusive, and others, like those with Rolls-Royce and GE, permit the supplier to sell its products directly to our customers under limited circumstances. Additionally, from time to time, we face competition from individual airlines liquidating or reducing their inventories, and in the future, we may face pricing pressures from airline consortiums pooling their resources to purchase parts, components and supplies at discounted prices. Numerous companies compete with ILS in the operation of global aerospace- and marine-related electronic marketplaces. Our competitors in this area include airlines, manufacturers, distributors, independent companies, and their alliances, and we expect the competition in this area to increase in the future. These competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to accurately forecast our inventory requirements, we may incur significant costs or lose customers and our business may otherwise be adversely affected. We use complex rolling forecasts based upon our anticipated product orders to determine what we purchase from our suppliers. Lead times for our product orders vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms and the then-current market demand for particular products. If we underestimate our product requirements, we may have insufficient inventory to meet demand, which may result in shipping delays, lost sales and dissatisfied customers. Alternatively, if we overestimate our product requirements, we may accumulate excess inventory, which may result in increased carrying costs and write-offs of inventory and related unamortized contract rights. In addition, we may be required to write-off inventory and related unamortized contract rights when we stop selling a supplier’s parts or components or when a supplier chooses to compete against us. Any future write-offs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our inventory does not meet specifications established by certain governmental agencies, we may incur significant costs and our operating performance may otherwise be negatively affected. Our inventory consists primarily of new aerospace parts, components and supplies that we purchase from our suppliers. Before any part, component or supply item may be used on an aircraft, it must meet standards of condition established by the FAA, the U.S. Department of Defense or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, such as the Canadian Transport Authority in Canada, the Joint Aviation Authority in the European Union and the Civil Aviation Authority in each of Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and the United Kingdom. Although regulatory requirements in other countries generally coincide with applicable U.S. requirements, specific regulations may vary from country to country. In some instances, components, parts and supplies that we purchase must also be traceable to sources deemed acceptable by the appropriate regulatory agency. Parts and components that we own or acquire are subject to changing standards, which may require us to modify or eliminate parts and components contained in our inventory. Aerospace parts manufacturers may also develop new parts and components to be used in lieu of parts and components already contained in our inventory. In all such cases, to the extent that we have such parts and components in our inventory, their value may be reduced. 18 Table of Contents If our FAA repair authority is revoked or limited, we may incur significant costs and our growth may be hindered. In 2005, Aviall Services’ product overhaul, repair and final assembly activities, which are regulated by the FAA, represented approximately 6% of Aviall Services’ net sales, including the parts used in these activities. The FAA prescribes standards and licensing requirements for aerospace components and effectively regulates component repair stations worldwide. Comparable agencies also regulate these matters in each of the foreign countries in which Aviall Services conducts operations. If Aviall Services does not have required FAA authority for its overhaul, repair and final assembly facilities, or loses the authority once it has been granted, the operation of that facility may be prohibited until it is able to obtain FAA authority. While we believe that Aviall Services possesses all required domestic and foreign governmental certifications, the revocation or limitation of its FAA repair authority would have a material adverse effect on its overhaul, repair and final assembly operations. In addition, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs to adapt Aviall Services’ overhaul, repair and final assembly operations to any changes in FAA regulations. Moreover, for purposes of their own compliance with FAA requirements, some of our customers may require us to certify that our facilities, products and services meet certain standards and specifications. If we fail to meet these certification requirements or fail to maintain our certified status with one or more of our customers, our reputation may be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations, and we may fail to implement strategies that adequately protect us against these risks. We sell our products to customers located in many countries around the world. Because we sell our products and services outside of the U.S., we are exposed to risks associated with selling and operating in foreign countries. These risks include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • political instability; • limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars; and • economic volatility. During 2005, we derived approximately 28% of our total sales from selling our products and services to customers located outside of the U.S. and 4% of our aggregate sales were denominated in foreign currencies. The percentage of our net sales derived from selling our products and services outside of the U.S. may increase in the future. Although we may enter into certain transactions to hedge the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations or take other steps to protect against these risks, we may be unable to fully protect ourselves against these risks. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The interests of our largest stockholder may be inconsistent with the interests of our other equity holders. As of February 22, 2006, affiliates of The Carlyle Group, or the Carlyle Investors, beneficially owned approximately 13% of our common stock, and two managing directors of The Carlyle Group sit on our Board of Directors. In addition, pursuant to an Investor Rights Agreement with the Carlyle Investors, we may not take certain actions without their consent, including incurring certain types of additional debt, making specified payments and capital expenditures or issuing any class of capital stock that ranks senior to our common stock. As such, The Carlyle Group asserts considerable influence over our operations. The interests of The Carlyle Group and its affiliates may not be consistent with the interests of our other equity holders. Although the Carlyle Investors may dispose of up to an additional 4,624,615 shares of common stock, portions of the Investor Rights Agreement will continue in effect for so long as the Carlyle Investors continue to beneficially own at least 3.5% of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and expenses related to environmental remediation. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations require property owners or operators to pay for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances located on, under or emanating from their property. Some of our current operations, such as our battery repair and brake service centers, use small quantities of hazardous or toxic substances in their operations. Additionally, we sell hazardous or toxic substances which are used by aerospace customers. Some of our previously owned businesses used certain chemicals classified by various federal, state, local and foreign agencies as hazardous substances. We have retained certain environmental liabilities related to these formerly owned businesses and/or properties and are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup to comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations related to these formerly owned businesses and/or properties. These same laws and regulations also impose liability for contamination on persons who sent wastes to, or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes at, a disposal or treatment facility. These laws and regulations generally impose liability regardless of whether the entity arranging for disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. In the U.S., liability may be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. We have been named a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act or similar state laws at several third-party disposal sites. At five of these sites, wastes were allegedly sent by the previous owner of assets used in our discontinued engine services operations. Accordingly, the previous owner has retained, and has been discharging, all liability associated with the cleanup of these sites pursuant to the sales agreement. Although we may be potentially liable in the event of nonperformance by the previous owner, we do not anticipate that we will incur any significant costs in connection with these matters. We have also been named a potentially responsible party at two disposal sites. In addition, we have pending lawsuits related to environmental remediation associated with our former properties or with the transfer of waste generated by our previously owned businesses to offsite disposal facilities. We do not expect future costs in relation to any of these matters will be material. As a past operator of businesses that used hazardous or toxic substances, we may be liable for additional removal or remediation costs, governmental penalties, property damage and related expenses. These costs and expenses may be significant and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we improperly ship hazardous materials, we may incur substantial fines or damages. The FAA exercises regulatory jurisdiction over and actively monitors the shipment of hazardous materials by air. Some of the products that we sell contain hazardous materials that are subject to these regulations, such as chemicals and life rafts. We share responsibility with the air carrier for compliance with FAA regulations in shipping hazardous materials by air, and we are primarily responsible for the proper packaging and labeling of these items. If we mislabel or otherwise improperly ship hazardous materials, we may be liable for damage to the aircraft and other property as well as substantial monetary penalties. If any of these events were to occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. 20 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the numerous laws and government regulations that govern our business may result in us being liable for material fines, penalties or damages or may restrict our operations. In addition to regulation by the FAA, foreign civil aviation authorities and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulations. While we endeavor to comply with all applicable laws and government regulation, our operations may from time to time fail to fully comply with some of these laws and government regulations. Any violation of these laws or government regulations may result in material fines, penalties or damages being imposed on us or may result in restrictions or limitations on how we conduct our operations. Any such fines, penalties or damages or limitations on our operations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Advances in technology and evolving industry standards may increase our costs or cause us to lose customers. The electronic marketplace business in which ILS operates is characterized by evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. The introduction of new hardware or software or the emergence of new industry trends or standards may render our existing hardware, software or services obsolete, cause us to incur significant hardware, software, development or labor costs or cause us to write-off prior investments in hardware or software. In addition, our failure to introduce new services and enhancements to our existing services in response to changing market conditions, customer or technology requirements or delays from the implementation of our enterprise resource planning software may cause us to lose business to our competitors. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including Sarbanes-Oxley, new SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for public companies. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to changing interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory bodies, which may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. These evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation and hence the value of our stock may be harmed. In addition, it has become increasingly more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We expect that maintaining this coverage will require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our Board of Directors, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, and the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or CFO, may face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board of directors and such executive officers, which may harm our business. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 