risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described under the section of this Form 10-K entitled “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereon, including without limitation, changes in our business strategy or planned capital expenditures, store growth plans, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview We were originally formed as a corporation in the State of Nevada on September 16, 1965 under the name “Canyon State Mining Corporation of Nevada.” After several name changes through the years, in 2005 we changed our name to DGSE Companies, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 11311 Reeder Road, Dallas TX 75229. Our telephone number is 972-484-3662. Our primary internet address is www.DGSE.com. We hold registered trademarks for the company names “Dallas Gold & Silver Exchange”, “Southern Bullion Coin & Jewelry” and the corresponding logos. We buy and sell jewelry, diamonds, fine watches, rare coins and currency, precious metal bullion products, scrap gold, silver, platinum and palladium as well as collectibles and other valuables. Our customers include individual consumers, dealers and institutions throughout the United States. Our operations are organized around two primary types of customers: Retail and Wholesale. Relationship with NTR Metals NTR Metals (“NTR”) is one of the world’s largest precious metals companies, and offers a full range of refining, recycling, minting and trading services. Through a series of transactions beginning in 2010, NTR has become the largest shareholder of our common stock. In addition to being our largest shareholder, NTR is our primary dealer for bullion purchases and is our primary refiner of recyclable precious metal. These and other transactions with NTR are more fully described in Footnote 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, Related Party Transactions. 1 In April of 2012 NTR announced its merger with OPM Metals (“OPM”), the largest American-owned refiner of “good delivery” gold and silver. The combined company was originally called Global Metals Holdings, and has since been rechristened Elemetal, LLC (“Elemetal”). In January of 2013 NTR announced it would contribute 4,393,142 of its shares of our common stock to Elemetal, in exchange for ownership units in Elemetal. NTR also agreed to contribute its option to buy 5,000,000 additional shares of DGSE. Along with NTR, OPM and Echo Environmental, a large-scale processor of hazardous and non-hazardous precious metal-bearing industrial byproducts, we are considered one of Elemetal’s core holdings. Customer Types Retail As of the end of Fiscal 2012, our products and services were marketed through 34 retail locations in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. During the year ended December 31, 2012 (“Fiscal 2012”), we closed our sole location in California, operating under the name Superior Galleries, and have opened additional locations in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Texas. These retail locations operate under a variety of banners, including Bullion Express, Charleston Gold & Diamond Exchange, Dallas Gold & Silver Exchange and Southern Bullion Coin & Jewelry and are supported by the following websites: www.BullionExpress.com, www.CGDEinc.com, www.DGSE.com and www.SouthernBullion.com. Our retail footprint has grown significantly in recent years through both acquisition and the opening of additional locations. We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our number of retail stores. Our management expects that the bulk of our growth in the coming 12 months will come from additional locations we plan to open in the metro areas in which we already have a retail presence. We believe this focused growth will allow us greater efficiencies in staffing, merchandising, management and advertising. We also continue to explore acquisition opportunities, focused on operations in existing or contiguous geographic areas. In addition to our retail locations, we operate two websites that are not specifically tied to any physical location: www.AmericanGoldAndSilverExchange.com provides clients the ability to mail their unwanted valuables to us for evaluation and purchase; www.USBullionExchange.com facilitates real time trading in all common precious metal bullion products. Wholesale Our Fairchild International (“Fairchild”) division is one of the country’s leading dealers of pre-owned fine watches. Fairchild supplies over 1,100 regional jewelry stores across the country, with pre-owned Rolexes and aftermarket Rolex accessories such as bands, bezels and dials. A dealer-only online catalog of Fairchild’s fine watch inventory can be found at our web site at www.Fairchildwatches.com. In addition to Fairchild, we transact a significant amount of business with wholesalers and other companies in our industry. This transactional activity occurs at industry-specific trade shows held periodically throughout the year, during in-person and telephonic sales calls, and on industry trade websites that facilitate wholesale trades for our industry. 2 Products and Services Jewelry We sell items in every major jewelry category, including bridal jewelry, fashion jewelry, custom-made jewelry, diamonds and other gemstones, watches and findings (jewelry components). A substantial percentage of our jewelry inventory is purchased directly from our customers at one of our 34 retail locations (as of this filing) or via our www.AmericanGoldAndSilverExchange.com website. These jewelry items and fine watches are then cleaned, serviced and repaired by our experienced jewelers so that they are in a like-new condition and suitable for resale. The higher-quality diamonds and gemstones we purchase are certified by the Gemological Institute of America (“GIA”) for an independent assessment of their quality. This process aides us in readily reselling these stones individually or as a component of our custom bridal and fashion jewelry. Mid-quality diamonds and gemstones are often utilized in custom fashion jewelry or packaged with lower quality stones and sold to wholesalers across the country and abroad. In 2012 we entered into a strategic partnership with AJLR LLC, (“AJLR”) whereby AJLR manufactures jewelry for DGSE, based on our designs and utilizing parts of DGSE's diamond stock along with gems sourced from other third parties. This relationship allows DGSE to sell high-quality fashion jewelry to our customers, for significantly lower prices than many of our competitors. AJLR jewelry is sold by DGSE on a consignment basis. In addition to the jewelry inventory purchased from AJLR and our customers, we maintain relationships with numerous other consignment vendors across the country, which supply us with new and estate jewelry. Any sales made from this consignment jewelry stock are settled with our consignment vendors on a monthly or quarterly basis. We also maintain jewelry repair centers in five of our locations and accept repairs, polishing and service orders through all of our retail locations. Bullion Our bullion trading operation buys and sells all forms of gold, silver, platinum and palladium precious metals products, including United States and other government coins, private mint medallions, wafers, art bars and trade unit bars. Retail bullion transactions are conducted with individual consumers at all of our store locations and online at www.USBullionExchange.com. Wholesale bullion transactions are conducted through our main bullion trading operation in Dallas, Texas, which maintains numerous vendor relationships with major industry wholesalers, mints and institutions. Bullion products are purchased and sold based on current market pricing for precious metals. This bullion inventory is subject to market value changes created by the underlying commodity markets. We periodically enter into futures contracts in order to hedge our exposure against changes in market prices. While we believe that we have effectively managed the commodity risk associated with our bullion activity, there are several national and international factors which are out of our control but may affect margins, customer demand and transactional volume in our bullion business. These factors include but are not limited to: Federal Reserve policies, inflation rates, global economic uncertainty, governmental and private mint supply and other factors. NTR is our principal wholesaler of bullion products. Several other bullion wholesalers compete for our business on a regular basis. 3 Rare Coins, Currency and Collectibles We buy and sell most numismatic items, including rare coins, currency, medals, tokens and other collectibles. The majority of our rare coin, currency and collectible revenue is derived from individual customers selling their collections to us. We then consolidate these collections and resell them on the wholesale market through national trade shows, in-person and telephonic sales calls, and on industry trade websites. Scrap Individual and wholesale customers sell their unwanted jewelry and other precious metals items to us at all of our retail locations. Roughly 65% of our advertising budget is dedicated to the purchase of unwanted valuables from the public, and as a result, our main source of profit in 2012 was directly attributable to scrap gold, silver, platinum and palladium purchases. After we have purchased these valuables, they are processed at a centralized clearing house, where expert jewelers, gemologists and watchmakers sort items into three main resale categories: Retail Appropriate, Wholesale Appropriate and Refiner Appropriate. Those items deemed appropriate for resale at one of our retail locations are cleaned, serviced and repaired by our experienced jewelers so that they are in a like-new condition. The vast majority of these items are then individually tagged with a Radio Frequency Identification (“RFID”) tracking system tag, placed on our e-commerce websites and sent to one of our retail locations for future retail sales. Other items that are not appropriate for our retail locations are grouped into wholesale lots and liquidated at national trade shows or through in-person dealer to dealer transactions. Items that are not appropriate for either retail or wholesale purposes are sent to the refiner and refined into bullion, which is typically sold to the refiner. In addition to purchases made at our retail locations, we allow individuals to sell their scrap gold, silver, platinum and palladium through our www.AmericanGoldAndSilverExchange.com website. www.AmericanGoldAndSilverExchange.com provides customers from all over the United States with a simple and secure method to sell unwanted valuables by sending them via FedEx, UPS or the U.S. Mail directly to our corporate facilities for evaluation. Customers are provided with a firm purchase price which they can reject or accept for immediate payment. NTR is also the principal refiner of our scrap related products. Several other refiners compete for our business on a regular basis. Future Expansion We have traditionally expanded by establishing new start-up locations and acquiring exiting retail locations, and we plan to continue to focus efforts in both areas. We plan to continue to expand our presence in our existing geographic markets, and we will consider other markets that meet our risk/reward considerations. We believe that such expansion will continue to provide economies of scale in marketing, administration, sales and operations management, and will allow us to leverage our critical subject matter experts. By concentrating multiple retail outlets in regional and local markets, we seek to expand marketing penetration, enhance name recognition and leverage marketing programs. Our stores can broadly be categorized into two categories: anchor stores and satellite stores. Anchor stores tend to be larger stores, carrying a fuller line of products. These stores will typically be the primary or only store in a given geography, and be in more highly populated areas. Satellite stores will typically be smaller, have less depth of retail inventory, and be more focused on scrap buying. These stores will typically be secondary stores in a given geography, or be located in more rural areas. These definitions are fluid and somewhat subjective, but serve to broadly illustrate one way of viewing our current locations, and future expansion. The following chart provides a proforma view of what “typical” store financials would look like in each category, although no individual store will exactly fit these profiles. These results would be expected once a new store reaches “maturity” which is estimated to be 24 months for an anchor store and 18 months for a satellite store. 4 Anchor Store Satellite Store Revenue $5,000,000 $1,200,000 Cost of Sales 4,350,000 864,000 Gross Profit 650,000 336,000 Gross Margin % 13% 28% SG&A 500,000 250,000 Pre-Tax Operating Income $150,000 $86,000 Anchor stores will tend to sell more bullion and jewelry than satellite stores and draw from a larger population pool, and therefore are expected to have significantly higher sales. Conversely it’s expected with this higher mix of bullion sales, these stores will generate lower average margins. Higher expenses for anchor stores are driven by higher rents related to larger stores in more densely populated areas, and more store personnel. We estimate that it costs between $40,000 and $100,000 to open an anchor store, and between $25,000 and $60,000 to open a satellite store. While we are evaluating a wide variety of expansion opportunities, we expect to focus on expanding in current or contiguous geographic markets, and therefore will primarily be opening additional satellite locations. We currently plan to open between 8 to 12 new locations in 2013. In addition we continue to explore acquisitions of individual stores or chains, where they can be opportunistically acquired at low cost, and be accretive to earnings in a very short period. Our ability to expand is subject to numerous unpredictable factors, which may be out of our control. These factors include the availability of suitable acquisition candidates or attractive retail sites on suitable terms. In addition, our plans are also affected by changes in the local or national regulatory environment, availability of qualified retail management and personnel, local and regional competition, macroeconomic factors affecting our business segments, and the availability of capital to support our expansion plans. Sales and Marketing All of our activities rely heavily on local television, radio, print, and digital media. Marketing activities emphasize our broad array of products, staff expertise and price point advantages compared to our competition. In Fiscal 2012 we spent $4,660,595 on advertising, which includes costs for traditional and digital media, in-store displays, brochures and informational pamphlets, production fees and other related items. Seasonality The retail and wholesale jewelry business is seasonal. We realized 28.7% and 29.4% of our annual sales in the fourth quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, respectively. While our bullion and rare coin business is not seasonal, our management believes it is directly impacted by several national and international factors which are out of our control. These factors may affect margins, customer demand and transactional volume in our bullion and rare coin business. These factors include but are not limited to: U.S. Federal Reserve policies, inflation rates, global economic uncertainty, governmental and private mint supply and other factors. Our other business activities are not seasonal. Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry where competition is based on a combination of price, service and product quality. Our jewelry and scrap activities compete with numerous other competitors in the markets in which we operate. These competitors include big box retailers, national jewelry chains, individual jewelry stores, web only entities, pawn shops and other businesses who attempt to enter this industry as an add-on to their existing business lines. 5 The bullion and rare coin industry in which we compete is dominated by substantially larger enterprises which retail and wholesale bullion, rare coin and other precious metal products through traditional store front locations and via the internet. We compete in these industries by taking advantage of core competencies in the following areas: •Pricing – We offer competitive or industry leading price points across all of our product lines. •Selection – We offer a wide variety of inventory in each one of our product lines. This diverse selection allows us to market to the widest variety of potential clients while immediately delivering items that competitors may have to back order. •Brick and Mortar Locations – We choose retail locations that simultaneously meet our client’s geographical needs while also providing a safe and attractive location to conduct business. •Web Portals – Our websites allow clients who are located both inside and outside of our brick and mortar footprint to conduct business with us in an efficient and cost effective manner. •Staff – We employ a staff of experts with significant backgrounds in their respective fields. When coupled with our corporate training programs, management structure and incentives for continuing education we are able to proudly field one of the nation’s best groups of client facing sales associates. •Brand – We’ve spent millions of dollars advertising our brands and have spent countless hours reinforcing that marketing message with our clients on an individual basis. As a result, current and prospective clients place a significant amount of trust in our brands. The fact that we are publicly traded also gives us a foundation of trust for many consumers. •Market Maker –While many of our competitors only buy or only sell, we provide two way markets in all of our product lines. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we employed 173 individuals, 159 of whom were full time employees. Available Information Our website is located at www.DGSE.com. Through Investor Relations section of this website, we make available free of charge all of our filings with the SEC and press releases. In addition, a complete copy of our Business Conduct and Ethics Policy, our Related Party Transactions Policy and charters for our Audit and Compensation Committees are available through this website, as well as information on how to communicate with our Board of Directors. Discontinued Operations In March of 2012, the Company decided to discontinue the operations of its Superior Galleries (“Superior”) subsidiary due to the lack of profitability and management's belief that it was unlikely that profitability would be reached in the foreseeable future. The Company officially discontinued the Superior business on June 8, 2012 but incurred some additional losses in the balance of 2012 related to wrapping up operations. The operating results and any gain or loss on the disposition of Superior assets of the for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 have been reclassified as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements. Acquisitions On September 14, 2011, we completed the acquisition of SBT in exchange for the issuance of 600,000 restricted shares of our common stock. Acquisition-related costs associated with the transaction were $144,434 which were expensed as incurred. SBT is one of the largest precious-metals chains in the Southeast, with 23 locations at the time of acquisition in Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, that buy and sell bullion, coins, paper money, pre-owned watches, diamonds and all forms of gold and silver. We entered into this transaction seeing it as an opportunistic acquisition that would allow us to expand our operations and provide a platform for future growth. 6 The total purchase price has been allocated to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as follows: Intangible Assets $3,412,896 Property and other assets 902,807 Inventories 3,429,711 Liabilities assumed (2,308,557) Total purchase price $5,436,857 After final adjustments, the excess of purchase price over tangible assets acquired was calculated at $3,412,896. This excess value is attributed to the “Southern Bullion Coin & Jewelry” trade name is being treated as an intangible asset, with a 15-year life. This trade name has considerable equity in its markets, and was developed and expanded throughout the South over the past 4 years at significant expense and effort from SBT. Prior to acquisition, SBT had spent over $2,500,000 on advertising the business under this name, and had expanded its use to 23 locations, which generate millions of consumer impressions a year simply from signage at the physical locations. In recognition of this value, DGSE has already begun the process of re-branding certain other locations as “Southern Bullion Coin & Jewelry”, and plans to continue to expand the use of the name throughout the South. While we currently plan to continue and expand use of the trade name indefinitely, as a matter of conservatism, we believe that using a 15-year life is appropriate. Given this determination, this intangible asset valued at $3,412,896 is being amortized over its 15-year life, generating a non-cash amortization expense of $227,526 annually. In Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011 we recognized $227,526 and $56,882, respectively, in amortization expense related to this intangible asset. SBT had no other amortization expense for Fiscal 2012 or Fiscal 2011. As of December 31, 2012 this intangible asset had a net book value of $3,128,487. The operating results of SBT have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date of September 14, 2011. The amounts of SBT’s revenue and earnings included in our consolidated statement of operations for Fiscal 2011 were: Revenue Earnings Actual from 9/14/2011 to 12/31/2011 $12,857,102 $1,378,655 The revenue and earnings of the combined entity had the acquisition date been January 1, 2011 are as follows: Revenue Earnings Fiscal 2011 combined entity proforma $175,953,033 $3,808,139 Research & Development We do not actively engage in research and development activities. As a result, we spent $0 in 2012 and 2011 on research and development. 7 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully review and consider the risks described below and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K before evaluating our business or making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes thereto. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Additional risks which we do not presently consider material, or of which we are not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on our business. Please also see the section of this Form 10-K entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1. We are currently under investigation by the SEC for the Accounting Irregularities and are currently a defendant in two lawsuits related to the Accounting Irregularities. It is possible that neither the investigation nor the lawsuits will be resolved in our favor. We could face additional enforcement actions by the SEC or other governmental or regulatory bodies, as well as additional shareholder lawsuits, all of which could have significant negative financial or operational implications. At the time of this filing, we are under investigation by the SEC for the Accounting Irregularities in our financial statements and are currently a defendant in two lawsuits related to our Accounting Irregularities. We cannot currently anticipate the ultimate outcome of the SEC investigation or the lawsuits, or its impact on us, including possible fines or sanctions, which could be significant. We may be the subject of additional enforcement actions and further lawsuits, which could be debilitating. The costs of such investigations and of defending lawsuits could be significant and could exceed the amount of any available insurance coverage we have, and we may not have sufficient resources in the future to satisfy such costs. These matters may continue for some time, and we have no way of anticipating when or how they may be resolved. As a result of the current investigation and lawsuits, as well as any future investigations and lawsuits, we could face loss of reputation, decline in confidence from investors, fall in the market price for its shares, inability to acquire capital and failure to continue as a going concern. In the past, our internal controls over financial reporting and procedures related thereto have been deficient. Although we are taking significant remedial measures (as explained elsewhere in this Form 10-K), our previous deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, and there is no guarantee that our internal controls over financial reporting and procedures will not fail in the future. Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. In the past, our internal controls and procedures have failed. The remedial measures being taken by us may not be sufficient to regain the confidence of investors or any loss of reputation, which could in turn affect our finances and operations. Our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent all errors or all instances of fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our business have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If there is a failure in any of our internal controls and procedures, we could face investigation or enforcement actions by the SEC and other governmental and regulatory bodies, litigation, loss of reputation and investor confidence, inability to acquire capital and other material adverse effects on our finances and business operations. 8 The Loan Agreement with NTR is collateralized by a general security interest in our assets. If we were to default under the terms of the credit facility, NTR would have the right to foreclose on our assets. On July 19, 2012, we entered into that certain Loan Agreement with NTR, dated July 19, 2012, by and between NTR and us (the “Loan Agreement”), pursuant to which NTR agreed to provide us a guidance line of revolving credit in an amount up to $7,500,000. In connection with the Loan Agreement, we granted a security interest in the securities and the respective personal property of each of our subsidiaries. If we were to default under the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, NTR would have the right to accelerate any indebtedness outstanding and foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our indebtedness. Such a foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. As of December 31, 2012, the outstanding balance of the loan was $3,583,358. The voting power in our company is substantially controlled by a small number of stockholders, which may, among other things, delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or a takeover attempt, even if such events may be beneficial to our stockholders. NTR is our largest shareholder. NTR owns 5,037,642 shares of our common stock, representing 41.37% of our total outstanding shares of common stock, and has voting control over a total of 53.9% of our current voting securities by virtue of a proxy that NTR holds over all of the shares of our common stock that are owned by Dr. L.S. Smith, our former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. Consequently, NTR is in a position to significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders, including, but not limited to, the election of members of our Board and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to our governing documents, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of NTR. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock We are currently involved in a sales tax dispute with the State of Texas, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain a favorable result. The Comptroller of Public Accounts of the State of Texas (the “Comptroller”) alleged in December 2010 that we owe approximately $4.4 million in unpaid sales tax for the period from March 1, 2006 through November 30, 2009 (the “Sales Tax Deficiency”), plus penalty of approximately $440,000 and accrued interest, as of December 17, 2010, of approximately $600,000. Interest has continued to accrue since that time. The Comptroller has informally agreed to reduce the Sales Tax Deficiency by approximately $960,000, so the remaining deficiency is approximately $3.4 million plus penalty and interest. The primary contested issue in this dispute arose over the characterization of certain transactions between us and NTR, our largest shareholder. We believe that those transactions are not subject to sales tax, including because the transactions constitute bullion sales. However, the Comptroller has taken the position that those sales constitute sales of jewelry or scrap metal and are subject to sales tax. We are disputing this characterization with the Comptroller. As of the date of this Form 10-K, this dispute has not been resolved. The sales tax matter may continue for some time, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in eliminating or even reducing the Sales Tax Deficiency. If we are required by the State to repay the entire Sales Tax Deficiency, we could face a liquidity shortfall, which could negatively affect our profitability, business operations, reputation and investor confidence. 9 The market for precious metals is inherently unpredictable. Bullion and scrap products are purchased and sold based on current market pricing for precious metals. This bullion and scrap inventory is subject to market value changes created by the underlying commodity markets. We periodically enter into futures contracts in order to hedge our exposure against changes in market prices. There are several national and international factors which are out of our control but which may affect margins, customer demand and transactional volume in our bullion business. These factors include but are not limited to, the policies of the U.S. Federal Reserve, inflation rates, global economic uncertainty, governmental and private mint supply and other factors. If we misjudge the commodity markets underlying the bullion inventory, our bullion business could suffer adverse consequences. Substantially lower precious metals prices could negatively affect our ability to continue purchasing significant volumes of precious metal scrap products which could negatively affect our profitability. Adverse economic conditions in the U.S. or in other key markets, and the resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer confidence and spending, including, but not limited to, general economic and business conditions; wages and employment levels; volatility in the stock market; home values; inflation; consumer debt levels; availability and cost of consumer credit; economic uncertainty; solvency concerns of major financial institutions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fuel and energy costs and/or shortages; tax issues; and general political conditions, both domestic and abroad. Adverse economic conditions, including declines in employment levels, disposable income, consumer confidence and economic growth could result in decreased consumer spending that would adversely affect sales of consumer goods, particularly those, such as many of our products, that are viewed as discretionary items. In addition, events such as war, terrorism, natural disasters or outbreaks of disease could further suppress consumer spending on discretionary items. If any of these events should occur, our future sales could decline by driving up commodities prices, particularly gold. We face intense competition. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and we compete with numerous other companies, many of which are larger and have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources. Our products compete on a number of bases, including price. Significant increases in these competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number and dollar volume of sales. For all of our products and services, we compete with a number of comparably sized and smaller firms, as well as a number of larger firms throughout the United States. Many of our competitors have the ability to attract customers as a result of their reputation and through their industry connections. Additionally, other reputable companies may decide to enter our markets to compete with us. These companies may have greater name recognition and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. If these companies are successful in entering the markets in which we participate or if customers choose to go to our competition, we may attract fewer buyers and our revenue could decrease. Our wholesale and jewelry business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. Our wholesale and jewelry sales are seasonal by nature. Our sales are traditionally greater during significant local holidays that occur in late fall, winter or early spring. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during these seasons depends upon the general level of retail sales at such times, as well as economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. If events or circumstances were to occur that negatively impact consumer spending during such holiday seasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. 10 If we misjudge the demand for our products, high inventory levels could adversely affect future operating results and profitability. Consumer demand for our products can affect inventory levels. If consumer demand is lower than expected, inventory levels can rise causing a strain on operating cash flow. If the inventory cannot be sold through our wholesale or retail outlets, additional write-downs or write-offs to future earnings could be necessary. Conversely, if consumer demand is higher than expected, insufficient inventory levels could result in unfulfilled customer orders, loss of revenue and an unfavorable impact on customer relationships. In particular, volatility and uncertainty related to macro-economic factors make it more difficult for us to forecast customer demand in its various markets. Failure to properly judge consumer demand and properly manage inventory could have a material adverse effect on profitability and liquidity. Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements and our ability to secure financing and credit could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We require continued access to capital, and a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Similarly, if actual costs to build new stores significantly exceed planned costs, our ability to build new stores or to operate new stores profitably could be materially restricted. Credit and equity markets remain sensitive to world events and macro-economic developments. Therefore, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies’ short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs we incur in order to finance our operations may have a material adverse impact on our business results and financial condition. Interest rate fluctuations could increase our interest expense. Interest rates could rise which would, in turn, increase our cost of borrowing or could make it difficult or impossible for us to secure financing. A failure in our information systems could prevent us from effectively managing and controlling our business or serving our customers. We rely on our information systems to manage and operate our stores and business. Each store is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances daily and report revenues and expenses in a timely manner. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operation, the ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees. Our future success and growth depend on the continued services of our key management and employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee or contractor could materially affect our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining them. There is a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, our industry. We do not have employment agreements with many of our key employees. We do not maintain life insurance policies on many of our employees. Our loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or our inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on sales and our ability to maintain our technological edge. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to retain our key management and skilled personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. 11 We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not paid common stock dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings in an effort to complete development of our technologies and products, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value. In addition, our revolving credit facility with NTR currently restricts, and any other credit or borrowing arrangements that we enter into in the future may restrict or limit, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We are subject to new and existing corporate governance and internal control reporting requirements, and our costs related to compliance with, or our failure to comply with, existing and future requirements could adversely affect our business. We face corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), as well as new rules and regulations subsequently adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Exchange. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and may become increasingly stringent in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations that address corporate governance, internal control reporting and similar matters. Failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to investigation and enforcement actions and could materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and the value and liquidity of our securities. Our websites may be vulnerable to security breaches and similar threats, which could result in our liability for damages and harm to our reputation. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our websites are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by internet users. These occurrences could result in our liability for damages, and our reputation could suffer. The circumvention of our security measures may result in the misappropriation of customer or other confidential information. Any such security breach could lead to interruptions and delays and the cessation of service to our customers and could result in a decline in revenue and income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 