ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. We believe these are all the material risks currently facing our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including our financial statements and related notes. Changes in customer demand for our products and services could result in a significant decrease in our revenues. Although our customer base commonly uses our products and services, our failure to meet changing demands of our customers could result in a significant decrease in our revenues. Changes in governmental rules and regulations applicable to the specialty financial services industry could have a negative impact on our lending activities. Our lending is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and licensing requirements under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations. New laws and regulations could be enacted that could have a negative impact on our lending activities. Fluctuations in our inventory turnover and sales. We regularly experience fluctuations in our inventory balances, inventory turnover and sales margins, yields on loan portfolios and pawn redemption rates. Changes in any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results. Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements could limit our ability to achieve our plans. We require continued access to capital, and a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Similarly, if actual costs to build new stores significantly exceed planned costs, this could materially restrict our ability to build new stores or to operate new stores profitably. Our credit agreement also limits the allowable amount of capital expenditures in any given fiscal year, which could limit our ability to build all planned new stores. Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans. We encounter significant competition in connection with our retail and lending operations from other pawnshops, cash advance companies and other forms of financial institutions and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than us. Significant increases in these competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number or quality of payday loans and pawn loans or our ability to liquidate forfeited collateral at acceptable margins. Our earnings could be negatively impacted by an unfavorable outcome of litigation, regulatory actions or labor and employment matters. A failure in our information systems could prevent us from effectively managing and controlling our business or serving our customers. We rely on our information systems to manage and operate our stores and business. Each store is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances daily, report revenues and expenses timely. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operation, the ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. A failure of our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, or our inability to timely comply with the requirements of sections 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse impact on us and our investors’ confidence in our reported financial information. Effective internal controls and disclosure controls and processes are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. We are currently performing the system and process evaluation required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This evaluation may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our controls are necessary. Completing this evaluation, performing testing and implementing any required remedial changes will require significant expenditures and management attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of these on our operations. We cannot be certain that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses will not be identified, or that remediation efforts will be timely to allow us to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. 4 Table of Contents Changes in general economic conditions could negatively affect loan performance and demand for our products and services. A sustained deterioration in the economic environment could adversely affect our operations by reducing consumer demand for previously owned merchandise. Interest rate fluctuations could increase the company’s interest expense. Although the weakness in the U.S. economy over the past several quarters has resulted in relatively low bank interest rates, a significant economic recovery could result in a substantial rise in interest rates that would, in turn, increase our cost of borrowing. We face other risks discussed under qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to the Acquisition of Superior Galleries, Inc. If we fail to effectively integrate our operations with Superior, the combined company may not realize the potential benefits of the combination. The integration of our company and Superior will be a time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt the combined company’s operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If this integration effort is not successful, the combined company’s results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, customers could choose not to place new orders and the combined company could have difficulty complying with regulatory requirements. In addition, the combined company may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits of the combination. Following the combination, our company and Superior must operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. The combined company may encounter the following difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating operations: • failure to manage relationships with customers and other important constituents successfully; • failure of customers to accept new services or to continue using the products and services of the combined company; • difficulties in successfully integrating our management teams and employees with Superior’s; • challenges encountered in managing larger, more geographically dispersed operations; • the loss of key employees; • diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns; • potential incompatibilities of technologies and systems; • potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; and • potential incompatibility of business cultures. If the combined company’s operations after the combination do not meet the expectations of our or Superior’s existing customers, then these customers may cease doing business with the combined company altogether, which would harm the results of operations and financial condition of the combined company. If the anticipated benefits of the combination are not realized or do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline after the combination. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the combination if: • the integration of our company and Superior is unsuccessful; • the combined company does not achieve the expected benefits of the combination as quickly as anticipated or the costs of or operational difficulties arising from the combination are greater than anticipated; • the combined company’s financial results after the combination are not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; • the anticipated operating and product synergies of the combination are not realized; or • the combined company experiences the loss of significant customers or employees as a result of the combination. Failure to complete the combination could adversely affect the future business and operations of our company as well as the market price of our common stock. 5 Table of Contents The combination is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of numerous closing conditions, including the approval of the merger and reorganization by both Superior and DGSE stockholders, and may not be successfully completed. In the event that the combination is not completed, we may be subject to a number of risks, including: • The price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of the respective companies’ common stock reflects a market assumption that the combination will be completed. • We could suffer the loss of customers, revenues and employees due to uncertainties resulting from the uncompleted combination. • Our costs related to the proposed combination, such as legal, accounting and advisory fees, must be paid even if the combination is not completed, and these costs would reduce our reported earnings or increase our reported loss, for the period when it was determined that the combination would not be consummated. Completion of the combination may result in our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. The completion of the combination may result in our stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4340(a), an issuer must apply for initial inclusion following a transaction in which the issuer combines with a non-Nasdaq entity if the combination results in a change of control of the issuer and potentially allows the non-Nasdaq entity to obtain a Nasdaq listing. Superior is a non-Nasdaq entity and we do not currently, and may not at the time of the acquisition, satisfy the initial listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market. Accordingly, if Nasdaq determines that the acquisition will result in a “change of control” of our company for purposes of its Rule 4340(a), Nasdaq may initiate proceedings to delist our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market. In this case, we may seek to be listed on the American Stock Exchange, though we do not currently, and there can be no assurances that we will at the time of the combination, satisfy the initial listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange. Completion of the combination may result in dilution of future earnings per share to our stockholders. The completion of the combination may not result in improved earnings per share of our common stock or a financial condition superior to that which would have been achieved by our company on a stand-alone basis. The combination could fail to produce the benefits that we anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that we have made, such as the achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. In this event, the combination could result in a reduction of earnings per share as compared to the earnings per share that would have been achieved by us if the combination had not occurred. The costs associated with the combination are difficult to estimate, may be higher than expected and may harm the financial results of the combined company. We estimate that we and Superior will each incur direct transaction costs of approximately $400,000 associated with the planned acquisition, and additional costs associated with consolidation and integration of operations, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. If the total costs of the combination exceed estimates or the benefits of the combination do not exceed the total costs of the combination, the financial results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Our and Superior’s businesses could suffer due to the announcement and closing of the combination. The announcement and closing of the combination may have a negative impact on our or Superior’s ability to sell our respective products and services, attract and retain key management, technical, sales or other personnel, maintain and attract new customers and maintain strategic relationships with third parties. For example, we and Superior may experience deferral, cancellations or a decline in the size or rate of orders for our respective products or services or a deterioration in our respective customer or business partner relationships. Any such events could harm the operating results and financial condition of the combined company following the acquisition. Risks Related to the Combined Company After the Combination To facilitate a reading of the risks that we believe will apply to us and Superior as a combined company following completion of the combination, in referring to “we”, “us” and other first person declarations in these risk factors, we are referring to the combined company as it would exist following the combination. Superior has a history of losses and may incur future losses. Superior recorded a net loss of $2,489,000 for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and a net loss of $616,000 for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. Superior recorded net income of $552,000 for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 and has incurred losses in prior fiscal years since July 1999. We cannot be certain that following the combination, Superior will become profitable as our subsidiary. If Superior does not become profitable and sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. 6 Table of Contents The voting power in our company is substantially controlled by a small number of stockholders, which may, among other things, delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or a takeover attempt, even if such events may be beneficial to our stockholders. Upon consummation of the acquisition, Stanford International Bank Ltd., which we refer to as SIBL, and Dr. L.S. Smith, our chairman and chief executive officer, will collectively have the power to vote approximately 58% of our voting securities, and beneficially own approximately 57% of our voting securities on a fully-diluted basis. Consequently, these two stockholders may have sufficient voting power to control the outcome of virtually all corporate matters submitted to the vote of our common stockholders. Those matters could include the election of directors, changes in the size and composition of the board of directors, mergers and other business combinations involving our company, or the liquidation of our company. In addition, we expect to enter into a corporate governance agreement with SIBL and Dr. Smith in connection with the acquisition, which entitles SIBL and Dr. Smith to each nominate two “independent” directors to the DGSE board and entitles Dr. Smith and William H. Oyster, our president and chief operating officer, to be nominated to the DGSE board for so long as each remains an executive officer of DGSE. Through this control of company nominations to our board of directors and through their voting power, SIBL and Dr. Smith would be able to exercise substantial control over certain decisions, including decisions regarding the qualification and appointment of officers, dividend policy, access to capital (including borrowing from third-party lenders and the issuance of additional equity securities), and our acquisition or disposition of assets. Also, the concentration of voting power in the hands of SIBL and Dr. Smith could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, even if the change in control would benefit our other stockholders, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We could be subject to sales taxes, interest and penalties on interstate sales for which we have not collected taxes. Superior has not collected California sales tax on mail-order sales to out-of-state customers, nor has it collected use tax on its interstate mail order sales. We believe that Superior’s sales to interstate customers are generally tax-exempt due to varying state exemptions relative to the definitions of being engaged in business in particular states and the lack of current Internet taxation. While Superior has not been contacted by any state authorities seeking to enforce sales or use tax regulations, we cannot assure you that Superior will not be contacted by authorities in the future with inquiries concerning its compliance with current statutes, nor can we assure you that future statutes will not be enacted that affect the sales and use tax aspects of our business. We may incur losses as a result of accumulating inventory. In addition to auctioning rare coins on consignment, a substantial portion of the rare coins that Superior sells comes from its own inventory. Superior purchases these rare coins from dealers and collectors and assumes the inventory and price risks of these items until they are sold. If Superior is unable to resell the rare coins that it purchases when it wants or needs to, or at prices sufficient to generate a profit from their resale, or if the market value of the inventory of purchased rare coins were to decline, our revenue would likely decline. The revolving credit facilities with Stanford International Bank Ltd. and Texas Capital Bank, N.A. is each collateralized by a general security interest in Superior’s and our assets, respectively. If either company were to default under the terms of its credit facility, the lender would have the right to foreclose on our assets. In December 2005, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Texas Capital Bank, N.A., which currently permits borrowings up to a maximum principal amount of $4 million. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are collateralized by a general security interest in substantially all of our assets. As of December 31, 2006, $3.785 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. If we were to default under the terms and conditions of the revolving credit facility, Texas Capital Bank would have the right to accelerate any indebtedness outstanding and foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our indebtedness. Such a foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. In October 2003, Superior entered into a revolving credit facility with Stanford Financial Group Company, which we refer to as SFG, which has assigned the facility to SIBL. The facility currently permits borrowings up to a maximum principal amount of $19.89 million, and will be reduced to $11.5 million in connection with the closing of the acquisition (after the exchange by SIBL of approximately $8.4 million of outstanding debt into shares of Superior common stock). Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are collateralized by a general security interest in substantially all of Superior’s assets. As of December 31, 2006, $10.85 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility; however, in connection with the combination, it is expected that $8.4 million of that debt will be exchanged for Superior common stock and up to $6 million of the credit facility will be made available to our company. If Superior were to default under the terms and conditions of the revolving credit facility, SIBL would have the right to accelerate any indebtedness outstanding and foreclose on Superior’s assets, and, subject to inter-creditor arrangements with Texas Capital Bank, our assets, in order to satisfy Superior’s indebtedness. Such a foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 7 Table of Contents 