ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. We believe these are all the material risks currently facing our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including our financial statements and related notes. Changes in customer demand for our products and services could result in a significant decrease in revenues. Although our customer base commonly uses our products and services, our failure to meet changing demands of our customers could result in a significant decrease in our revenues. Changes in governmental rules and regulations applicable to the specialty financial services industry could have a negative impact on our lending activities. Our lending is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and licensing requirements under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations. New laws and regulations could be enacted that could have a negative impact on our lending activities. Fluctuations in our inventory turnover and sales. We regularly experience fluctuations in our inventory balances, inventory turnover and sales margins, yields on loan portfolios and pawn redemption rates. Changes in any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results. Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements could limit our ability to achieve our plans. We require continued access to capital, and a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Similarly, if actual costs to build new stores significantly exceeds planned costs, our ability to build new stores or to operate new stores profitably could be materially restricted. The DGSE credit agreement also limits the allowable amount of capital expenditures in any given fiscal year, which could limit our ability to build new stores. Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans. In the coins and other collectibles business, we will compete with a number of comparably sized and smaller firms, as well as a number of larger firms throughout the United States. Our primary competitors are American Numismatic Rarities, a comparably-sized coin auctioneer. Many of our competitors have the ability to attract customers as a result of their reputation and the quality collectibles they obtain through their industry connections. Additionally, other reputable companies that sell rare coins and other collectibles may decide to enter our markets to compete with us. These companies have greater name recognition and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. If these auction companies are successful in entering the specialized market for premium collectibles in which we participate or if dealers and sellers participate less in our auctions, we may attract fewer buyers and our revenue could decrease. 4 Our earnings could be negatively impacted by an unfavorable outcome of litigation, regulatory actions, or labor and employment matters. From time to time, we are involved in litigation, regulatory actions and labor and employment matters arising from our normal operations. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any future actions and that they will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation or liquidity. A failure in our information systems could prevent us from effectively managing and controlling our business or serving our customers. We rely on our information systems to manage and operate our stores and business. Each store is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances daily and report revenues and expenses timely. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operation, the ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. A failure of our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse impact on us and our investors’ confidence in our reported financial information. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors or all instances of fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal controls, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or operating results. Additionally, adverse publicity related to a failure in our internal controls over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide only management’s report in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 5 Changes in general economic conditions could negatively affect loan performance and demand for our products and services. A sustained deterioration in the economic environment could adversely affect our operations by reducing consumer demand for the products we sell. Interest rate fluctuations could increase our interest expense. Although the U.S. Federal Reserve halted a sustained period of regular interest rate hikes in August 2006, interest rates could rise which would, in turn, increase our cost of borrowing. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees. Our future success and growth depend on the continued services of our key management and employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee or contractor could materially affect our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining them. There are a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, our industry. We do not have employment agreements with many of our key employees. We do not maintain life insurance polices on many of our employees. Our loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or our inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on sales and our ability to maintain our technological edge. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to retain our key management and skilled personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. The voting power in our company is substantially controlled by a small number of stockholders, which may, among other things, delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or a takeover attempt, even if such events may be beneficial to our stockholders. On May 25, 2010, we entered into a Closing Agreement, dated May 25, 2010 with NTR Metals, LLC, a Texas limited liability company, and Dr. L.S. Smith, our CEO. Pursuant to the Closing Agreement and that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement (and Amendments thereto), dated January 27, 2010, by and among us and Stanford International Bank, Ltd. (“SIBL”), an entity organized under the laws of Antigua, we assigned our right to acquire three million (3,000,000) shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “NTR Acquired Interest”), from SIBL to NTR, whereby NTR acquired the NTR Acquired Interest directly from SIBL for a cash purchase price of $3,600,000 paid to SIBL by NTR. Simultaneously with the Closing, NTR granted to Dr. Smith a 4-year proxy (the “NTR Proxy”) on the NTR Acquired Interest. NTR will not be represented on our Board of Directors, nor will NTR be otherwise involved in the management of the Registrant. In addition, NTR has entered into a one-year Lock-Up Agreement on the NTR Acquired Interest. In exchange for NTR’s grant of the NTR Proxy, Dr. Smith granted to NTR an option (the “Option”) to acquire one million (1,000,000) shares of our common stock owned by Dr. Smith, at an exercise price of $6.00 per share for the first two years following the anniversary of the Closing. If the Option remains unexercised on the second anniversary following the Closing, then the exercise price shall increase to $10.00 per share for the third and fourth years following the anniversary of Closing. The NTR Proxy shall terminate, and the voting rights on the NTR Acquired Interest shall revert back to NTR, upon the occurrence of: 1) NTR’s exercise of the Option at any time during the four-year Option period; or 2) the death of Dr. Smith. 6 We could be subject to sales taxes, interest and penalties on interstate sales for which we have not collected taxes. Superior has not collected California sales tax on mail-order sales to out-of-state customers, nor has it collected use tax on its interstate mail order sales. We believe that our sales to interstate customers are generally tax-exempt due to varying state exemptions relative to the definitions of being engaged in business in particular states and the lack of current Internet taxation. While we have not been contacted by any state authorities seeking to enforce sales or use tax regulations, we cannot assure you that we will not be contacted by authorities in the future with inquiries concerning our compliance with current statutes, nor can we assure you that future statutes will not be enacted that affect the sales and use tax aspects of our business. We may incur losses as a result of accumulating inventory. A substantial portion of the products that we sell comes from our own inventory. We purchased these products from dealers and collectors and assume the inventory and price risks of these items until they are sold. If we are unable to resell the products that we purchase when we want or need to, or at prices sufficient to generate a profit from their resale, or if the market value of the inventory of purchased products were to decline, our revenue would likely decline. Our planned expansion and enhancement of our websites and internet operations may not result in increased profitability. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website and network infrastructure are and will be critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers and technical personnel and to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any system interruptions or reduced performance of our website could materially adversely affect our reputation and our ability to attract new customers and technical personnel. We are in the process of development and/or enhancement of several portions of our websites that will offer content and auctions for rare coins that may have a lower average selling price than many of the rare coins in the markets we currently serve, and in the future we plan to integrate various of our websites. Continued development of our websites will require significant resources and expense. If the planned expansion of our websites does not result in increased revenue, we may experience decreased profitability. 7 Our websites may be vulnerable to security breaches and similar threats which could result in our liability for damages and harm to our reputation. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our websites are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by internet users. These occurrences could result in our liability for damages, and our reputation could suffer. The circumvention of our security measures may result in the misappropriation of customer or other confidential information. Any such security breach could lead to interruptions and delays and the cessation of service to our customers and could result in a decline in revenue and income. Changes to financial accounting standards and new exchange rules could make it more expensive to issue stock options to employees, which would increase compensation costs and may cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and various other bodies. A change in those policies could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. We are subject to new corporate governance and internal control reporting requirements, and our costs related to compliance with, or our failure to comply with existing and future requirements could adversely affect our business. We may incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of our required compliance with certain regulations. More specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel must devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, beginning with our year ended December 31, 2007, management was required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act required companies to obtain auditor’s attestation related to their assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The compliance deadline for smaller reporting companies to comply with Section 404(b) had been extended by the SEC to annual reports covering fiscal years ended on or after June 15, 2010, or in our case for our annual report covering our year ended December 31, 2010. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Wall Street Reform Act”). Section 989G of the Wall Street Reform Act expressly exempts issuers that are neither “large accelerated filers” nor “accelerated filers” (which includes smaller reporting companies) from the requirement contained in Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act to provide an auditor attestation of internal control over financial reporting. Although we are no longer required to comply with Section 404(b), we remain subject to Section 404(a) (that is, management’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting). Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. As a result, our compliance with Section 404(a) may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We do not have an internal audit group, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to ensure compliance with these regulations and/or to correct such material weaknesses. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a), or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, the market price of our common shares could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 8 The revolving credit facility with Texas Capital Bank, N.A. is collateralized by a general security interest in our assets. If we were to default under the terms of the credit facility, the lender would have the right to foreclose on our assets. In December 2005, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Texas Capital Bank, N.A., which permits borrowings up to a maximum principal amount of $4.5 million. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are collateralized by a general security interest in substantially all of our assets (other than the assets of Superior). As of December 31, 2010, approximately $4.5 million was outstanding under the term loan and revolving credit facility. If we were to default under the terms and conditions of the revolving credit facility, Texas Capital Bank would have the right to accelerate any indebtedness outstanding and foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our indebtedness. Such a foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not paid common stock dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings in an effort to complete development of our technologies and products, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value. In addition, our revolving credit facility with Texas Capital Bank currently restricts, and any other credit or borrowing arrangements that we may enter into may in the future restrict or limit, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 