ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully review and consider the risks described below and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K before evaluating our business or making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes thereto. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Additional risks which we do not presently consider material, or of which we are not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on our business. Please also see the section of this Form 10-K entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1. We are currently under investigation by the SEC for the Accounting Irregularities and are currently a defendant in two lawsuits related to the Accounting Irregularities. It is possible that neither the investigation nor the lawsuits will be resolved in our favor. We could face additional enforcement actions by the SEC or other governmental or regulatory bodies, as well as additional shareholder lawsuits, all of which could have significant negative financial or operational implications. At the time of this filing, we are under investigation by the SEC for the Accounting Irregularities in our financial statements and are currently a defendant in two lawsuits related to our Accounting Irregularities. We cannot currently anticipate the ultimate outcome of the SEC investigation or the lawsuits, or its impact on us, including possible fines or sanctions, which could be significant. We may be the subject of additional enforcement actions and further lawsuits, which could be debilitating. The costs of such investigations and of defending lawsuits could be significant and could exceed the amount of any available insurance coverage we have, and we may not have sufficient resources in the future to satisfy such costs. These matters may continue for some time, and we have no way of anticipating when or how they may be resolved. As a result of the current investigation and lawsuits, as well as any future investigations and lawsuits, we could face loss of reputation, decline in confidence from investors, fall in the market price for its shares, inability to acquire capital and failure to continue as a going concern. 7 In the past, our internal controls over financial reporting and procedures related thereto have been deficient. Although we are taking significant remedial measures (as explained elsewhere in this Form 10-K), our previous deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, and there is no guarantee that our internal controls over financial reporting and procedures will not fail in the future. Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. In the past, our internal controls and procedures have failed. The remedial measures being taken by us may not be sufficient to regain the confidence of investors or any loss of reputation, which could in turn affect our finances and operations. Our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent all errors or all instances of fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our business have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If there is a failure in any of our internal controls and procedures, we could face investigation or enforcement actions by the SEC and other governmental and regulatory bodies, litigation, loss of reputation and investor confidence, inability to acquire capital and other material adverse effects on our finances and business operations. We may not be able to comply with the rules of the Exchange. Rule 704 of the Exchange requires that companies whose securities are listed on that exchange hold an annual shareholder meeting not later than 12 months after the last day of the company’s fiscal year. As a result of the discovery of the Accounting Irregularities, and the subsequent delay in the release of our Consolidated Financial Statements for Fiscal 2011, we have not yet held a shareholders’ meeting for Fiscal 2011. Under Rule 704 of the Exchange, our deadline to hold a shareholder meeting for Fiscal 2011 is December 31, 2012. We may not be able to comply with this deadline. If we are unable to comply with this deadline, we could be subject to punitive measures, up to and including involuntary delisting of our securities from the Exchange. We have scheduled a shareholder meeting in December 2012. As a result of the Accounting Irregularities, the Exchange has also halted trading of our common stock, and we can provide no assurance when or if trading will resume. The Loan Agreement with NTR is collateralized by a general security interest in our assets. If we were to default under the terms of the credit facility, NTR would have the right to foreclose on our assets. On July 19, 2012, we entered into that certain Loan Agreement with NTR, dated July 19, 2012, by and between NTR and us (the “Loan Agreement”), pursuant to which NTR agreed to provide us a guidance line of revolving credit in an amount up to $7,500,000. In connection with the Loan Agreement, we granted a security interest in the securities and the respective personal property of each of our subsidiaries. If we were to default under the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, NTR would have the right to accelerate any indebtedness outstanding and foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our indebtedness. Such a foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. 8 The voting power in our company is substantially controlled by a small number of stockholders, which may, among other things, delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or a takeover attempt, even if such events may be beneficial to our stockholders. NTR is our largest shareholder. NTR owns 5,003,242 shares of our common stock, representing 43.1% of our total outstanding shares of common stock, and has voting control over a total of 54.5% of our current voting securities by virtue of a proxy that NTR holds over all of the shares of our common stock that are owned by Dr. L.S. Smith, our former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. Consequently, NTR is in a position to significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders, including, but not limited to, the election of members of our Board and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to our governing documents, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of NTR. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock The market for precious metals is inherently unpredictable. Bullion and scrap products are purchased and sold based on current market pricing for precious metals. This bullion and scrap inventory is subject to market value changes created by the underlying commodity markets. We periodically enter into futures contracts in order to hedge our exposure against changes in market prices. There are several national and international factors which are out of our control but which may affect margins, customer demand and transactional volume in our bullion business. These factors include but are not limited to, the policies of the U.S. Federal Reserve, inflation rates, global economic uncertainty, governmental and private mint supply and other factors. If we misjudge the commodity markets underlying the bullion inventory, our bullion business could suffer adverse consequences. Substantially lower precious metals prices could negatively affect our ability to continue purchasing significant volumes of precious metal scrap products which could negatively affect our profitability. Adverse economic conditions in the U.S. or in other key markets, and the resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer confidence and spending, including, but not limited to, general economic and business conditions; wages and employment levels; volatility in the stock market; home values; inflation; consumer debt levels; availability and cost of consumer credit; economic uncertainty; solvency concerns of major financial institutions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fuel and energy costs and/or shortages; tax issues; and general political conditions, both domestic and abroad. Adverse economic conditions, including declines in employment levels, disposable income, consumer confidence and economic growth could result in decreased consumer spending that would adversely affect sales of consumer goods, particularly those, such as many of our products, that are viewed as discretionary items. In addition, events such as war, terrorism, natural disasters or outbreaks of disease could further suppress consumer spending on discretionary items. If any of these events should occur, our future sales could decline by driving up commodities prices, particularly gold. We face intense competition. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and we compete with numerous other companies, many of which are larger and have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources. Our products compete on a number of bases, including price. Significant increases in these competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number and dollar volume of sales. 9 For all of our products and services, we compete with a number of comparably sized and smaller firms, as well as a number of larger firms throughout the United States. Many of our competitors have the ability to attract customers as a result of their reputation and through their industry connections. Additionally, other reputable companies may decide to enter our markets to compete with us. These companies may have greater name recognition and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. If these companies are successful in entering the markets in which we participate or if customers choose to go to our competition, we may attract fewer buyers and our revenue could decrease. Our wholesale and jewelry business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. Our wholesale and jewelry sales are seasonal by nature. Our sales are traditionally greater during significant local holidays that occur in late fall, winter or early spring. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during these seasons depends upon the general level of retail sales at such times, as well as economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. If events or circumstances were to occur that negatively impact consumer spending during such holiday seasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. If we misjudge the demand for our products, high inventory levels could adversely affect future operating results and profitability. Consumer demand for our products can affect inventory levels. If consumer demand is lower than expected, inventory levels can rise causing a strain on operating cash flow. If the inventory cannot be sold through our wholesale or retail outlets, additional write-downs or write-offs to future earnings could be necessary. Conversely, if consumer demand is higher than expected, insufficient inventory levels could result in unfulfilled customer orders, loss of revenue and an unfavorable impact on customer relationships. In particular, volatility and uncertainty related to macro-economic factors make it more difficult for us to forecast customer demand in its various markets. Failure to properly judge consumer demand and properly manage inventory could have a material adverse effect on profitability and liquidity. Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements and our ability to secure financing and credit could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We require continued access to capital, and a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Similarly, if actual costs to build new stores significantly exceed planned costs, our ability to build new stores or to operate new stores profitably could be materially restricted. Credit and equity markets remain sensitive to world events and macro-economic developments. Therefore, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies’ short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs we incur in order to finance our operations may have a material adverse impact on our business results and financial condition. Interest rate fluctuations could increase our interest expense. Interest rates could rise which would, in turn, increase our cost of borrowing or could make it difficult or impossible for us to secure financing. A failure in our information systems could prevent us from effectively managing and controlling our business or serving our customers. We rely on our information systems to manage and operate our stores and business. Each store is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances daily and report revenues and expenses in a timely manner. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operation, the ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. 10 Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees. Our future success and growth depend on the continued services of our key management and employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee or contractor could materially affect our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining them. There is a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, our industry. We do not have employment agreements with many of our key employees. We do not maintain life insurance policies on many of our employees. Our loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or our inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on sales and our ability to maintain our technological edge. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to retain our key management and skilled personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not paid common stock dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings in an effort to complete development of our technologies and products, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value. In addition, our revolving credit facility with NTR currently restricts, and any other credit or borrowing arrangements that we enter into in the future may restrict or limit, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We are subject to new and existing corporate governance and internal control reporting requirements, and our costs related to compliance with, or our failure to comply with, existing and future requirements could adversely affect our business. We face corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), as well as new rules and regulations subsequently adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Exchange. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and may become increasingly stringent in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations that address corporate governance, internal control reporting and similar matters. Failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to investigation and enforcement actions and could materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and the value and liquidity of our securities. Our websites may be vulnerable to security breaches and similar threats, which could result in our liability for damages and harm to our reputation. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our websites are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by internet users. These occurrences could result in our liability for damages, and our reputation could suffer. The circumvention of our security measures may result in the misappropriation of customer or other confidential information. Any such security breach could lead to interruptions and delays and the cessation of service to our customers and could result in a decline in revenue and income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 11 