ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The forward-looking statements contained under “Outlook for Fiscal 2009” in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and all other statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation, statements containing the words “believes,” “expects,” “projections” and words of similar meaning, constitute forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Moreover, from time to time, we may issue other forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements regarding financial performance in future periods, including the statements under “Outlook for Fiscal 2009,” do not reflect potential impacts of mergers or acquisitions or other significant transactions or events that have not been announced as of the time the statements are made. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect future events or revised expectations. Our business faces many risks, and set forth below are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. We face intense competition in the EDA industry. Competition in the EDA industry is intense, which can lead to, among other things, price reductions, longer selling cycles, lower product margins, loss of market share and additional working capital requirements. If our competitors offer significant discounts on certain products, we may need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce margins and could materially adversely impact our operating results. Any broad-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and service revenues to decline or be delayed as the sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle certain software products at low prices for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could significantly reduce demand for our products or constrain prices we can charge. We currently compete primarily with two large companies: Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc. We also compete with numerous smaller companies and compete with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed their own EDA products internally. Weakness in the U.S. and international economies may harm our business. The U.S. and international economies are cyclical and experience periodic economic downturns, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Weakness in these economies could materially adversely impact the timing and receipt of orders for our products and our results of operations. Revenue levels are dependent on the level of technology capital spending, which includes worldwide expenditures for EDA software, hardware and consulting services. 6 Table of Contents Our international operations and the effects of foreign currency fluctuations expose us to additional risks. We obtain more than half of our revenues from customers outside the U.S. and we generate approximately one-third of our expenses outside the U.S. Significant changes in currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on us. For further discussion of foreign currency effects, see “Effects of Foreign Currency Fluctuations” discussion in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, international operations subject us to other risks including longer receivables collection periods, changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade protection measures, local labor laws, import or export licensing requirements, loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, limitations on repatriation of earnings and difficulties with licensing and protecting our intellectual property rights. Our forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate. Our revenues, particularly new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast revenues and trends in our business. Sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the “conversion rate” of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. A variation in the conversion rate could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and materially adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. In particular, a slowdown in customer spending or weak economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in a particular quarter as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter attempting to obtain more favorable terms. Our business could be impacted by fluctuations in quarterly results of operations due to customer seasonal purchasing patterns, the timing of significant orders and the mix of licenses and products requested by our customers. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, varied quarterly operating results. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results and some of these are not within our control, including customer demand and the timing of significant orders. We experience seasonality in demand for our products, due to the purchasing cycles of our customers, with revenues in the fourth quarter generally being the highest. We receive a majority of our software revenues from current quarter order performance, of which a substantial amount is usually booked in the last few weeks of each quarter. A significant portion of our revenues come from multi-million dollar contracts, the timing of the completion of and the terms of delivery of which can have a material impact on revenue for a given quarter. If we fail to receive expected orders, particularly large orders, our revenues for that quarter could be materially adversely impacted. In such an event, we could fail to meet investors’ expectations, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. Our revenues are also affected by the mix of licenses entered into where we recognize software revenues as payments become due and payable, on a cash basis, or ratably over the license term as compared to revenues recognized at the beginning of the license term. We recognize revenues ratably over the license term, for instance, when the customer is provided with rights to unspecified or unreleased future products. A shift in the license mix toward increased ratable, due and payable and/or cash-based revenue recognition could result in increased deferral of software revenues to future periods and would decrease current revenues, which could result in us not meeting near-term revenue expectations. The gross margin on our software is greater than that for our hardware emulation system, software support and professional services. Therefore, our gross margin may vary as a result of the mix of products and services sold. Additionally, the gross margin on software varies year to year depending on the amount of royalties due to third parties for the mix of products sold. We also have a significant amount of fixed or relatively fixed costs, such as employee costs and purchased technology amortization, and costs which are committed in advance and can only be adjusted periodically. As a result, a small failure to reach planned revenues would likely have a relatively large negative effect on resulting earnings. If anticipated revenues do not materialize as expected, our gross margins and operating results could be materially adversely impacted. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from relatively few product groups. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of relatively few product groups and related support services. As such, any factor adversely affecting sales of these products, including the product release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition and economic and market conditions, would likely harm our operating results. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the IC and electronics systems industries. Purchases of our products and services are highly dependent upon new design projects initiated by customers in the IC and electronics systems industries. These industries are highly cyclical and are subject to constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries regularly experience significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles within such companies or a decline in general economic conditions. These downturns can cause diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Customers also appear to be reducing the number of EDA vendors with which they do business. If this trend continues, we may have more difficulty obtaining new customers and increasing our market share. Customer payment defaults could harm our business. We use fixed-term license agreements as a standard business practice with customers we believe are credit-worthy. These multi-year, multi-element term license agreements are typically three years in length and have payments spread over the license term. The complexity of these agreements tends to increase the risk associated with collectibility from customers that can arise for a variety of reasons including ability to pay, product dissatisfaction, disagreements and disputes. If we are unable to collect under these agreements, our results of operations could be 7 Table of Contents materially adversely impacted. We use these fixed-term license agreements as a standard business practice and have a history of successfully collecting under the original payment terms without making concessions on payments, products or services. If we no longer had a history of collecting without providing concessions on the terms of the agreements, then revenue would be required to be recognized as the payments become due and payable over the license term. This change could have a material impact on our results. IC and PCB technology evolves rapidly. The complexity of ICs and PCBs continues to rapidly increase. In response to this increasing complexity, new design tools and methodologies must be invented or acquired quickly to remain competitive. If we fail to quickly respond to new technological developments, our products could become obsolete or uncompetitive, which could materially adversely impact our business. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity and have unique specifications. Due to the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our designs and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: • loss of current customers and loss of, or delay in, revenue and loss of market share; • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources to resolve the problems resulting from errors or defects; and • increased support or service costs. In addition, we include third party technology in our products and we rely on those third parties to provide support services to us. Failure of those third parties to provide necessary support services could materially adversely impact our business. Long sales cycles and delay in customer completion of projects make the timing of our revenues difficult to predict. We have a lengthy sales cycle that generally extends between three and six months. A lengthy customer evaluation and approval process is generally required due to the complexity and expense associated with our products and services. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenues and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services may be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects due to customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance review procedures, timing of budget cycles or timing of competitive evaluation processes. Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. Our indirect sales channel is comprised primarily of independent distributors and sales representatives. Our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. Any loss of our leadership position in certain segments of the EDA market could harm our business. The industry in which we compete is characterized by very strong leadership positions in specific segments of the EDA market. For example, one company may enjoy a large percentage of sales in the physical verification segment of the market while another will have a similarly strong position in mixed-signal simulation. These strong leadership positions can be maintained for significant periods of time as the software is difficult to master and customers are disinclined to make changes once their employees, as well as others in the industry, have developed familiarity with a particular software product. For these reasons, much of our profitability arises from niche areas in which we are the leader. Conversely, it is difficult for us to achieve significant profits in niche areas where other companies are the leaders. If for any reason we lose our leadership position in a niche, we could be materially adversely impacted. Accounting rules governing revenue recognition are complex and may change. The accounting rules governing software revenue recognition are complex and have been subject to authoritative interpretations that have generally made it more difficult to recognize software revenues at the beginning of the license period. If this trend continues, new and revised standards and interpretations could materially adversely impact our ability to meet near-term revenue expectations. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We may have additional tax liabilities. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. For example, our interim tax provision expense is based on our expectation of profit and loss by jurisdiction. If the mix of profit and loss by jurisdiction is different from our estimates our actual tax expense could be materially different. Our tax expense may also be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arm’s-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by the tax authorities. Also, our tax expense could be impacted depending on the applicability of withholding taxes on term-based licenses and related intercompany 8 Table of Contents transactions in certain jurisdictions. In determining the adequacy of income taxes, we assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities’ examinations. The IRS and tax authorities in countries where we do business regularly examine our tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to operations that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We were issued a Revenue Agent’s Report in March 2007. See “Provision for Income Taxes” in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional discussion. Forecasting our tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty as our tax position for each year combines: (i) the effects of a mix of profits (losses) earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, (ii) changes in valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, (iii) the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities and (iv) changes in the tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. In order to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and calculate tax expense by jurisdiction. If the mix of profits and losses or effective tax rates by jurisdiction are different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecast. There are limitations on the effectiveness of controls. We do not expect that disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially adversely impact us. We may not realize revenues as a result of our investments in research and development. We incur substantial expense to develop new software products. Research and development activities are often performed over long periods of time. This effort may not yield a successful product offering or the product may not satisfy customer requirements. As a result, we could realize little or no revenues related to our investment in research and development. We may acquire other companies and may not successfully integrate them. The industry in which we compete has seen significant consolidation in recent years. During this period, we have acquired numerous businesses and have frequently been in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, and we may acquire other businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze all potential transactions before committing to them, we cannot assure that any transaction that is completed will result in long-term benefits to us or our shareholders or that we will be able to manage the acquired businesses effectively. In addition, growth through acquisition involves a number of risks. If any of the following events occurs after we acquire another business, it could materially adversely impact us: • difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • the substantial diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business when integrating the acquired business; • the discovery after the acquisition has been completed of previously unknown liabilities assumed with the acquired business; • the failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and increases in revenues; • the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • difficulties related to assimilating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering and customer support areas; • unanticipated costs; • unanticipated litigation in connection with or as a result of an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties; • adverse impacts on existing relationships with suppliers and customers; and • failure to understand and compete effectively in markets in which we have limited experience. Acquired businesses may not perform as projected, which could result in impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. Additional challenges include integration of sales channels, training and education of the sales force for new product offerings, integration of product development efforts, integration of systems of internal controls and integration of information systems. Accordingly, in any acquisition there will be uncertainty as to the achievement and timing of projected synergies, cost savings and sales levels for acquired products. All of these factors could impair our ability to forecast, meet revenues and earnings targets and manage effectively our business for long-term growth. We cannot assure that we can effectively meet these challenges. Mergers of our customers appear to be increasing. A significant number of mergers in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred and we believe more are likely. Mergers of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers’ bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. Supply problems for our emulation hardware systems could harm our business. The success of our emulation hardware systems depends on our ability to: (i) procure hardware components on a timely basis from a limited number of suppliers, (ii) create stable software for use on the product, (iii) assemble and ship hardware and software systems on a timely basis with appropriate quality control, (iv) develop distribution and shipment processes, (v) manage inventory and related obsolescence issues and (vi) develop processes to deliver customer support for hardware. Our inability to be successful in any of the foregoing could materially adversely impact us. We generally commit to purchase component parts from suppliers based on sales forecasts of our emulation hardware system. If we cannot change or be released from these non-cancelable purchase commitments, and if orders for our products do not materialize, we 9 Table of Contents could incur significant costs related to the purchase of excess components which could become obsolete before we could use them. Additionally, a delay in production of the components or inaccuracy in our sales forecast could materially adversely impact our operating results if we are unable to timely ship ordered products or provide replacement parts under warranty or maintenance contracts. We may not adequately protect our proprietary rights or we may fail to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses. Our success depends, in large part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure that third parties will not try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these protections. The companies in the EDA industry, as well as entities and persons outside the industry, are obtaining patents at a rapid rate. Many of these entities have substantially larger patent portfolios than we have. As a result, we may on occasion be forced to engage in costly patent litigation to protect our rights or defend our customers’ rights. We may also need to settle these claims on terms that are unfavorable; such settlements could result in the payment of significant damages or royalties, or force us to stop selling or redesign one or more products. We cannot assure that the rights granted under our patents will provide us with any competitive advantage, that patents will be issued on any of our pending applications or that future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as U.S. law protects these rights in the U.S. Some of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, and we may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for software and other intellectual property in the future. Failure to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses or rights from third parties on favorable terms could materially adversely impact us. Litigation may materially adversely impact us. Litigation may result in monetary damages, injunctions against future product sales and substantial unanticipated legal costs and divert the efforts of management personnel, any and all of which could materially adversely impact us. Third parties may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights. We periodically receive notices from others claiming infringement, or other misuse of their intellectual property rights or breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows, the functionality of products overlap, the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; • require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or • otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our failure to attract and retain key employees may harm us. We depend on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, our research and development staff and a number of other key management, sales, support, technical and services personnel. Competition for experienced, high-quality personnel is intense, and we cannot assure that we can continue to recruit and retain such personnel. Our failure to hire and retain such personnel could impair our ability to develop new products and manage our business effectively. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may materially adversely impact the markets on which our securities trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and investment in our business. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel more difficult and expensive and ultimately affect our revenues. Any armed conflict entered into by the U.S. could have an adverse impact on our revenues and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world may also result from an armed conflict and could negatively impact our business. We currently have operations in Pakistan, Egypt and Israel, countries that may be particularly susceptible to this risk. The consequences of any armed conflict are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse impact on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in economic recession in the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and could result in volatility of the market price for our common stock. Our articles of incorporation, Oregon law and our shareholder rights plan may have anti-takeover effects. Our board of directors has the authority, without action by the shareholders, to designate and issue up to 1,200,000 shares of incentive stock in one or more series and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each series without any further vote or action by the shareholders. Additionally, the Oregon Control Share Act and the Business Combination Act limit the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over us. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of the board of directors. In February 1999, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which has the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. The potential issuance of incentive stock, the provisions of the Oregon Control Share Act and the Business Combination Act and our shareholder rights plan could have the effect of delaying, deferring or 10 Table of Contents preventing a change of control of us, could discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and could materially adversely impact the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. We have a substantial level of indebtedness. As of January 31, 2008, we had $215 million of outstanding indebtedness, which includes $36 million of Floating Rate Convertible Subordinated Debentures (Floating Rate Debentures) due 2023, $165 million of 6.25% Convertible Subordinated Debentures (6.25% Debentures) due 2026 and $14 million in short-term borrowings. This level of indebtedness among other things could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt; • make it difficult for us to incur additional indebtedness or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • reduce funds available for use in our operations; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; • make us more vulnerable in the event of an increase in interest rates if we must incur new debt to satisfy our obligations under the Floating Rate Debentures and 6.25% Debentures; or • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. If we experience a decline in revenues, we could have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our stock price could become more volatile, and your investment could lose value. All of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 