ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may not be based on historical facts and are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements may be identified by reference to a future period(s) or by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “predict,” “foresee,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “could” or “intend,” future or conditional verb tenses, and variations or negatives of such terms. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, those relating to the Company’s trademarks, the Company’s ability to compete effectively, the effect of changes in laws, governmental regulations and legislative proposals affecting financial institutions, examinations by federal regulators, commercial loans, repurchase of mortgage loans, the impact of economic conditions in the Company’s market area and the economic downturn, identification and resolution of credit issues, debit card revenues, the use of non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, the effect of certain claims, legal and administrative proceedings and pending litigation, reserves for troubled debt restructurings, diversification of revenue stream, the Company’s policy regarding asset quality, the Company’s policy regarding underwriting and lending practices, critical and significant accounting policies, allowance for credit losses, other real estate owned, impairment of goodwill, other-than-temporary impairment of securities, valuation of 19 mortgage servicing rights, pension and other postretirement benefit amounts, net interest revenue, net interest margin, interest rate sensitivity, the impact of the historically low interest rate environment, credit quality, credit losses, determination of collateral fair value, analysis of guarantors, compliance with underwriting and/or appraisal standards, potential losses from representation and warranty obligations, the Company’s foreclosure process, inspection and review of construction, acquisition and development loans, maturity and renewal of construction, acquisition and development loans, deferred tax assets, unrecognized tax benefits, junior subordinated debt securities, capital resources, sources of liquidity and liquidity strategies, sources of maturing loans and investment securities, the Company’s ability to obtain funding, the ability to declare and/or pay dividends, credit losses from off-balance sheet commitments and arrangements, future acquisitions and consideration to be used therefor, the impact of recent accounting pronouncements, amortization expense of amortizable identifiable intangible assets, interest income, valuation of stock options, fair value of loans and leases, fair value of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities, maturities of available-for-sale securities, fair value of lending commitments, appraisal adjustments, concessions granted for troubled debt restructurings, value of investment securities, contributions to pension plans, related party transactions, impaired loans, nonperforming loans and leases, non-accrual loans and leases, economic value of equity, future lease payments, the use of proceeds from the underwritten public offering of the Company’s common stock, deposits, the Company’s operating results and financial condition, the terms and closing of the proposed transactions with each of Ouachita Bancshares Corp. and Central Community Corporation, and amendments to the Company’s code of business conduct and ethics or waiver of a provision thereof. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this Report in that actual results could differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · Local, regional and national economic conditions and the impact they may have on the Company and its customers and the Company’s assessment of that impact; · The ability of the Company to increase noninterest revenue and expand noninterest revenue business; · Changes in general business or economic conditions or government fiscal and monetary policies; · Fluctuations in prevailing interest rates and the effectiveness of the Company’s interest rate hedging strategies; · The ability of the Company to maintain credit quality; · The ability of the Company to provide and market competitive products and services; · Changes in the Company’s operating or expansion strategy; · Geographic concentration of the Company’s assets and susceptibility to economic downturns in that area; · The availability of and costs associated with maintaining and/or obtaining adequate and timely sources of liquidity; · Volatility and disruption in national and international financial markets; · Government intervention in the U.S. financial system; · Laws and regulations affecting financial institutions in general; · The ability of the Company to operate and integrate new technology; · The ability of the Company to manage its growth and effectively serve an expanding customer and market base; · The ability of the Company to attract, train and retain qualified personnel; · Changes in consumer preferences; · The ability of the Company to collect amounts due under loan agreements and to attract deposits; · Legislation and court decisions related to the amount of damages recoverable in legal proceedings; · Possible adverse rulings, judgments, settlements and other outcomes of pending litigation; and · Other factors generally understood to affect the financial results of financial services companies. Except as otherwise required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Report. In addition to the factors listed above that could influence the forward-looking statements in this Report, management believes that the risk factors set forth below should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business. Other relevant risk factors are outlined below and may be supplemented from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. 20 Our financial performance may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors. Since mid-2007, market conditions have led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Despite recent stabilization in market conditions, there remains a risk of continued asset and economic deterioration, which may increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity. In addition, certain European nations continue to experience varying degrees of financial stress. Despite various assistance packages, market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to these European nations and each other have resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial institutions. Risks related to the European economic crisis have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. There can be no assurance that global market and economic conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our provision and allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan and lease portfolio and utilize these assumptions and judgments when determining the provision and allowance for credit losses. The determination of the appropriate level of the provision for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the amount reserved in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our provision and the total allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses or future provisions for credit losses, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increases in the provision or allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, potentially, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Provision for Credit Losses and Allowance for Credit Losses” included herein for more information regarding our process for determining the appropriate level of the provision and allowance for credit losses. We make and hold in our portfolio real estate construction, acquisition and development loans, which are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project and which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. At December 31, 2014, we had a balance of $853.6 million in real estate construction, acquisition and development loans, representing 8.8% of our total loan portfolio. These real estate construction, acquisition and development loans have certain risks that are not present in other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with real estate construction, acquisition and development loans are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential and commercial units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. Real estate construction, acquisition and development loans also involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, real estate construction, acquisition and development loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the 21 ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance and accrued interest on the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. The adverse effects of the foregoing matters upon our real estate construction, acquisition and development portfolio could necessitate a further increase in non-performing loans related to this portfolio and these non-performing loans may result in a material level of charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2014, non-accrual real estate construction, acquisition and development loans totaled $4.2 million. We hold other real estate owned and may acquire and hold significant additional amounts, which could lead to increased operating expenses and vulnerability to additional declines in real property values. As our business necessitates, we foreclose on and take title to real estate serving as collateral for loans. At December 31, 2014, we had $34.0 million of other real estate owned, or OREO, compared to $69.3 million at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2014, $28.6 million, or 84.1%, of the total OREO balance had been carried on the books for longer than one year. As the properties held continue to age, we expect that future writedowns will become more likely and increase in amount. Although declining over recent years, significant OREO balances have resulted in substantial noninterest expenses as we incur costs to manage, maintain and dispose of foreclosed properties. We expect that our earnings will continue to be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments and other expenses associated with real property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with OREO assets and any unfavorable pricing in connection with the disposition of foreclosed properties. The expenses associated with holding a significant amount of OREO could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Other real estate is reported at the lower of cost or fair value, less estimated selling costs. Fair value is determined on the basis of current appraisals, comparable sales and other estimates of value obtained principally from independent sources. At the time of foreclosure, any excess of the loan balance over the fair value of the real estate held as collateral is charged to the allowance for credit losses. Subsequent valuation adjustments on the periodic revaluation of the property will result in additional charges, with a corresponding write-down expense. Significant judgments and complex estimates are required in estimating the fair value of OREO, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as we have experienced during the past few years. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, we may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly disposition as part of our OREO disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. As a result, the net proceeds realized from sales transactions could differ significantly from appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates used to determine the fair value of OREO. A significant increase in the rate of foreclosures on real estate collateral with reported fair values less than the loan balances, a substantial additional decline in the value of our holdings of OREO or our failure to realize net proceeds from sales of substantial amounts of other real estate owned equal to or greater than our reported values, or some combination of these, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors. Historically, our principal source of funds used to pay cash dividends on our common equity has been dividends received from the Bank. Although the Bank’s asset quality, earnings performance, liquidity and capital requirements will be taken into account before we declare or pay any future dividends on our common stock, our board of directors will also consider our liquidity and capital requirements and our board of directors could determine to declare and pay dividends without relying on dividend payments from the Bank. Federal and state banking laws and regulations and state corporate laws restrict the amount of dividends we may declare and pay. For example, under guidance issued by the Federal Reserve Board, as a bank holding company, we are required to consult with the Federal Reserve before declaring dividends and are to consider eliminating, deferring or reducing dividends if (1) our net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (2) our prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with our capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition, or (3) we will not meet, or are in danger of not meeting, our minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. 22 We may become involved in legal or administrative proceedings filed by or against us. The nature of our business ordinarily results in a certain amount of claims, litigation, including class action litigation, investigations and legal and administrative investigations and proceedings. Although we have developed policies and procedures to minimize the impact of legal noncompliance and other disputes and endeavored to provide reasonable insurance coverage, litigation and regulatory actions present an ongoing risk. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, our directors, management or employees, including remedies or damage awards. On at least a quarterly basis, we assess our liabilities and contingencies in connection with outstanding legal proceedings as well as certain threatened claims (which are not considered incidental to the ordinary conduct of our business) utilizing the latest and most reliable information available. For matters where a loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be estimated, no accrual is established. For matters where it is probable we will incur a loss and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we establish an accrual for the loss. Once established, the accrual is adjusted periodically to reflect any relevant developments. The actual cost of any outstanding legal proceedings or threatened claims, however, may turn out to be substantially higher than the amount accrued. Further, our insurance will not cover all such litigation, other proceedings or claims, or the costs of defense. While the final outcome of any legal proceedings is inherently uncertain, based on the information available, advice of counsel and available insurance coverage, management believes that the litigation-related expense we have accrued is adequate and that any incremental liability arising from pending legal proceedings, including class action litigation, and threatened claims and those otherwise arising in the ordinary course of business, will not have a material adverse effect on our business or consolidated financial condition. It is possible, however, that future developments could result in an unfavorable outcome for or resolution of any one or more of the lawsuits in which the Company or its subsidiaries are defendants, which may be material to our results of operations for one or more quarterly reporting periods. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” included herein for more information regarding material pending legal proceedings. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available on favorable terms when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance any acquisitions or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or to be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital on favorable terms when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the liquidity of the Bank and/or the Company. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. A decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. We elected to be a financial holding company pursuant to the GLBA and the Bank Holding Company Act. The Bank is a Mississippi state banking corporation. Both the Company and the Bank are subject to extensive governmental regulation, supervision, legislation and control. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These laws and regulations limit the manner in which we operate, including the amount of loans we can originate, interest we can charge on loans and fees we can charge for certain services. See “Item 1. Business - Regulation and Supervision” included herein for more information regarding regulatory burden and supervision. The Company and the Bank are currently well capitalized under applicable guidelines. Our business could be negatively affected, however, if the Company or the Bank fails to remain well capitalized. For example, because the 23 Bank and its subsidiaries are well capitalized and we qualify as a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities than are permitted to a bank holding company. Loss of financial holding company status would require that we either cease these broader activities or divest certain of the Bank’s subsidiaries if we desire to continue such activities. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. It is possible that there will be continued changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the future. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. We cannot predict the extent to which the government and governmental organizations may change any of these laws or controls. We also cannot predict how such changes would adversely affect our business and prospects. The Dodd-Frank Act and related rules and regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a variety of far-reaching changes and reforms for the financial services industry and directs federal regulatory agencies to study the effects of, and issue implementing regulations for, these reforms. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act could have a direct effect on our performance and, in some cases, impact our ability to conduct business. Examples of these provisions include, but are not limited to: · Creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council that may recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity; · Increased capital requirements and changes to the quality of capital required to be held by banking organizations; · Application of the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank and financial holding companies, such as the Company; · Changes to deposit insurance assessments; · Regulation of proprietary trading; · Repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; · Establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for bank and financial holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; · Implementation of risk retention rules for loans (excluding qualified residential mortgages) that are sold by a bank; · Implementation of annual stress tests for all banks with assets exceeding $10 billion; · Regulation of debit-card interchange fees; and · Regulation of lending and the requirements for Qualified Mortgages, Qualified Residential Mortgages and the assessment of “ability to repay” requirements. Many of these provisions have already been the subject of proposed and final rules by regulatory authorities. Many other provisions, however, remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business, may require that we change certain of our business practices, may materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, may require us to raise additional capital and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our financial condition and results of operations. The short-term and long-term impact of changes to banking capital standards could negatively impact our regulatory capital and liquidity. The Basel III Capital Rules, when implemented by U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, represent the most comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. banking capital framework in over two decades. These rules will require bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, such as the Company and the Bank, to dedicate more resources to capital planning and regulatory compliance, and maintain substantially more capital as a result of higher required capital levels 24 and more demanding regulatory capital risk-weightings and calculations. The rules will also require all banks to change substantially the manner in which they collect and report information to calculate risk-weighted assets, and will likely increase risk-weighted assets at many banking organizations as a result of applying higher risk-weightings to certain types of loans and securities. As a result, we may be forced to limit originations of certain types of commercial and mortgage loans, thereby reducing the amount of credit available to borrowers and limiting opportunities to earn interest income from the loan portfolio, or change the way we manage past-due exposures. As a result of the changes to bank capital levels and the calculation of risk-weighted assets, many banks could be required to access the capital markets on short notice and in relatively weak economic conditions, which could result in banks raising capital that significantly dilutes existing shareholders. Additionally, many community banks could be forced to limit banking operations and activities, and growth of loan portfolios and interest income, in order to focus on retention of earnings to improve capital levels. If the Basel III Capital Rules require us to access the capital markets in this manner, or similarly limit the Bank's operations and activities, the Basel III Capital Rules would have a detrimental effect on our net income and return on equity and limit the products and services we provide to our customers. See “Item 1. Business - Regulation and Supervision” included herein for more information regarding the Basel III Capital Rules. We obtain a significant portion of our noninterest revenue through service charges on core deposit accounts, and regulations impacting service charges could reduce our fee income. A significant portion of our noninterest revenue is derived from service charge income. Management anticipates that changes in banking regulations and, in particular, the Federal Reserve’s rules pertaining to certain overdraft payments on consumer accounts and the FDIC’s Overdraft Payment Programs and Consumer Protection Final Overdraft Payment Supervisory Guidance, will continue to have an adverse impact on our service charge income. Additionally, changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions may result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. A reduction in deposit account fee income could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Because of the geographic concentration of our assets, our business is highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Our business is primarily concentrated in selected markets in Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Missouri and Illinois. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial condition and results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate collateral, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure owed to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference or spread between interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities may fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including: · The rate of inflation; · Economic conditions; · Federal monetary policies; and · Stability of domestic and foreign markets. 25 The Bank originates residential mortgage loans for sale and for our portfolio. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the level of interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and fee income, which we report as gain on sale of loans. Decreasing interest rates generally result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This typically leads to reinvestment at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates. Monetary policies and economic factors may limit our ability to attract deposits or make loans. The monetary policies of federal regulatory authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve, and economic conditions in our service area and the United States generally, affect our ability to attract deposits and extend loans. We cannot predict either the nature or timing of any changes in these monetary policies and economic conditions, including the Federal Reserve’s interest rate policies, or their impact on our financial performance. Adverse conditions in the economic environment could also lead to a potential decline in deposits and demand for loans. Volatility in capital and credit markets could adversely affect our business. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in recent years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reputational risk may impact our results. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon customer and other external perceptions of our business practices and/or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices and/or our financial health could damage our reputation in both the customer and funding markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the customer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. While we carefully monitor internal and external developments for areas of potential reputational risk and have established governance structures to assist in evaluating such risks in our business practices and decisions, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse impacts on our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may also result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws, regulations or regulatory actions that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products and services we offer. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase our litigation risk. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect local economies where we maintain branch offices or cause disruption or damage to our branch office locations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have operations in Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas and Florida, which include areas susceptible to hurricanes or tropical storms. Such weather conditions can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations or negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes, tropical storms or other adverse weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather conditions could result in a decline in loan originations and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of devastating hurricanes or storms. We could be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is generally allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2014, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $316.0 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired because, for example, the acquired business does not meet projected revenue targets or certain key employees leave, we are required to write down the carrying value of these assets. We conduct a review at least annually to determine whether goodwill is impaired. Our annual goodwill 26 impairment evaluation performed during the fourth quarter of 2014 indicated no impairment of goodwill for our reporting segments. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and financial results and could cause a decline in our stock price. Diversification in types of financial services may adversely affect our financial performance. As part of our business strategy, we may further diversify our lines of business into areas that are not traditionally associated with the banking business. As a result, we would need to manage the development of new business lines in which we have not previously participated. Each new business line would require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to develop and integrate the service subsidiaries with our traditional banking operations. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to develop and integrate new services without adversely affecting our financial performance. Maintaining or increasing our market share may depend upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services as well as our distribution of them to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. Payment methods have evolved with the advancement of technology, such as consumer use of smart phones and PayPal accounts to pay bills, thereby increasing competitive pressure in the delivery of financial products and services. The development and adoption by us of new technologies could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify our existing products and services. Further, we might not be successful in developing or introducing new products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, or sufficiently maintaining and growing a loyal customer base. Our inability to adapt to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other financial holding companies, bank holding companies, banks, insurance and financial services companies. The banking, insurance and financial services businesses are extremely competitive in our service areas in Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Missouri and Illinois. We compete, and will continue to compete, with well-established banks, credit unions, insurance agencies and other financial institutions, some of which have significantly greater resources and lending limits. Some of our competitors provide certain services that we do not provide. We face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. Historically, we have grown through the acquisition of other financial institutions as well as the development of de novo offices. As appropriate opportunities present themselves, we have pursued and intend to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future that we believe are strategic, including possible FDIC-assisted transactions. In January 2014, we entered into separate definitive merger agreements with each of Ouachita Bancshares Corp. (“Ouachita”), pursuant to which Ouachita will merge with and into us, and Central Community Corporation (“CCC”), pursuant to which CCC will merger with and into us. In its 2014 examination of the Bank’s compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”), the FDIC identified weaknesses in the Bank’s BSA and anti-money laundering program. As previously disclosed, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis has informed us that it will not consider regulatory approval of the proposed mergers (the “Mergers”) with Ouachita and CCC until such time as the Bank takes necessary actions to remediate and resolve the BSA deficiencies identified by the FDIC. As such, we have determined that additional time will be required to obtain regulatory approval of the Mergers and have entered into amendments (the “Amendments”) to our merger agreements with Ouachita and CCC (the “Merger Agreements”), agreeing to extend the Merger Agreements until June 30, 2015 and allowing each of CCC and Ouachita to terminate its Merger Agreement with us on or after February 28, 2015 if we or the Bank do not have an application for regulatory approval of the Merger with CCC and Ouachita, respectively, on file with the FDIC or the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis before that date. The FDIC has requested that the Bank address the subject matter of the BSA deficiencies by entering into a proposed consent order (the “Proposed Order”). Our Board of Directors determined it to be in our best interests to withdraw the applications for regulatory approval of the Mergers, with the expectation that they subsequently be re-filed and commensurate with the Bank’s expectations of being able to satisfy the requirements of the Proposed Order, and the Merger approval applications were subsequently withdrawn. The Mergers will remain subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other closing conditions. We cannot offer any assurances as to the terms, 27 timing and closings of the proposed Mergers with Ouachita and CCC or our ability to undertake and perform those actions which are necessary to comply with the terms of the Proposed Order or remediate and fully resolve all regulatory concerns as described above. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate, finance or consummate potential acquisitions successfully or, if consummated, integrate such acquisitions with our current business. Upon completion of an acquisition, we are faced with the challenges of integrating and converting the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of acquired companies into our business, which may divert management’s attention from ongoing business operations. The success of our acquisitions is often dependent on the continued employment of key employees of the acquired business. If certain key employees were to leave, we could conclude that the value of an acquired business has decreased and that the related goodwill has been impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in effectively integrating any acquisition into the operations of our business or in retaining key employees. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. Our growth strategy includes risks that could have an adverse effect on financial performance. An element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of additional banks (which might include the acquisition of bank assets and liabilities in FDIC-assisted transactions), bank holding companies, financial holding companies, insurance agencies and/or other businesses related to the financial services industry that may complement our organizational structure in order to achieve greater economies of scale. We cannot assure you that appropriate growth opportunities will continue to exist, that we will be able to acquire banks, insurance agencies, bank holding companies and/or financial holding companies that satisfy our criteria or that any such acquisitions will be on terms favorable to us. Further, our growth strategy requires that we continue to hire qualified personnel, while concurrently expanding our managerial and operational infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire and retain qualified personnel or that we will be able to successfully expand our infrastructure to accommodate future acquisitions or growth. As a result of these factors, we may not realize the expected economic benefits associated with our acquisitions. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may experience interruptions or breaches that may affect our information system security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities could also be sources of operational and informational security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of these information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, cause us to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the failure of certain third party vendors to perform. We rely upon certain third party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to the risk that these vendors might not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements. We maintain a system of policies and procedures designed to monitor vendor risks. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and/or the holders of certain classes of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies. Our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our subsidiaries and particular classes of securities we issue. A downgrade to our or our subsidiaries’ credit rating could affect our ability to access the capital markets, increase our 28 borrowing costs and negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by us or our subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. Issuing additional shares of our common stock to acquire other banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and/or insurance agencies may result in dilution for existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In connection with our growth strategy, we have issued, and may issue in the future, shares of our common stock to acquire additional banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies, insurance agencies and/or other businesses related to the financial services industry that may compliment our organizational structure. Resales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market and the potential of such sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We usually must pay an acquisition premium above the fair market value of acquired assets for the acquisition of banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies. Paying this acquisition premium, in addition to the dilutive effect of issuing additional shares, may also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions may discourage a change of our control. Our governing documents and certain agreements to which we are a party contain provisions that make a change-in-control difficult to accomplish, and may discourage a potential acquirer. These include a classified or “staggered” board of directors, change-in-control agreements with members of management and supermajority voting requirements. These anti-takeover provisions may have an adverse effect on the market for our common stock. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency or instrumentality or any private insurer and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of your investment. We may issue debt or equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because any decision to incur debt or issue securities in future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any such future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failures that are not within our direct control. Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of the Bank, an employee, a vendor or members of the general public. We are most subject to fraud and compliance risk in 29 connection with the origination of loans, automated clearing house transactions, ATM transactions and checking transactions. Our largest fraud risk, associated with the origination of loans, includes the intentional misstatement of information in property appraisals or other underwriting documentation provided to us by third parties. The compliance risk is that loans are not originated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our standards. There can be no assurance that we can prevent or detect acts of fraud or violation of law or our compliance standards by the third parties that we deal with. Repeated incidences of fraud or compliance failures could adversely impact the performance of our loan portfolio. We depend upon key personnel and we may not be able to retain them nor to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified employees in the future. Our success depends in significant part upon the continued service of our senior management team and our continuing ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified and skilled managerial, product development, lending, marketing and other personnel. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management or other key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress test analyses conducted at or on the Company and the Bank may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities. Under final rules associated with the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and specifically section 165(i)(2) thereof, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulators require the Company and the Bank to perform, and in turn, the regulators themselves to conduct periodic stress tests and analysis of BancorpSouth to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in various economic and financial scenarios. This stress test analysis uses three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including a baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The regulators may also use, and require companies to use, additional components in the adverse and severely adverse scenarios or additional or more complex scenarios designed to capture salient risks to specific lines of business. The rules also require us to conduct our own periodic stress test analysis to assess the potential impact on the Company, including our consolidated earnings, losses and capital, under each of the economic and financial scenarios used as part of the regulators’ stress test analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserve’s annual stress analysis is to be released publicly and will contain bank holding company specific information and results. The rules also require us to disclose publicly a summary of the results of our annual stress analyses, and the Bank’s annual stress analyses, under the severely adverse scenario. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, and even if we remain stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict the market’s or our customers’ reaction to the results of these stress tests. Our customers’ reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. Additionally, our regulators may require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including requiring revisions or changes to our capital plans. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders. The CFPB is becoming more active in its rulemaking and enforcement activities which could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and the inherent reputational risk that results from such actions. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has extensive regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services. Among other regulatory powers, the CFPB has direct supervision and examination authority over banks with more than $10 billion in assets, including the Bank. The CFPB’s responsibilities include implementing and enforcing federal consumer financial protection laws, reviewing the business practices of financial services providers for legal compliance, monitoring the marketplace for transparency on behalf of consumers and receiving complaints and questions from consumers about consumer financial products and services. The CFPB also oversees and enforces certain prohibitions on unfair, deceptive or abusive financial acts and practices. The term “abusive” is new and untested, and we cannot predict how it will be enforced. Pursuant to its authority, in January 2013, the CFPB issued final regulations governing primarily consumer mortgage lending. One rule imposes additional requirements on lenders, including rules designed to require lenders to ensure borrowers’ ability to repay their mortgages. The CFPB also finalized a rule applicable to escrow accounts for higher priced mortgage loans and a rule expanding the scope of the high-cost mortgage provision in the Truth in Lending Act. The CFPB also issued final rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that relate to mortgage servicing. In November 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule on integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, compliance with which is required by August 1, 2015. 30 In 2014, the CFPB issued a series of inter-related Civil Investigative Demands to the Bank seeking documents and information regarding the Bank’s fair lending program. The United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) also initiated a related investigation of the Bank pursuant to which it has requested the same documents and information. We have voluntarily provided documents and other information to, and are cooperating with each of, the CFPB and the DOJ with regard to these investigations. The Bank has since received notification from the CFPB that the staff of the CFPB is considering whether to recommend to the CFPB’s Office of Enforcement public enforcement action against the Bank and a referral to the DOJ for alleged violations of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974. We have timely responded to the CFPB as to why the Bank believes that (i) the practices of its fair lending program are lawful, and (ii) the CFPB should not commence enforcement action against the Bank. A copy of the response was also sent to the DOJ. If the CFPB and/or the DOJ determine to bring public enforcement actions, such actions could include demands for civil money penalties and/or assessments, changes to certain of the Bank’s business practices and/or compliance programs, enhanced monitoring and/or customer restitution. The Company and the Bank are unable at this time to determine the terms on which these investigations will be resolved or the timing of such resolution or to estimate reliably the amounts, or range of possible amounts, of any fines, penalties and/or restitution if enforcement action is taken against the Bank. If, however, the CFPB and/or the DOJ do bring public enforcement actions, the resolution of such actions could have a materially adverse effect upon the Company and the Bank’s assets, business, cash flows, financial condition, liquidity, prospects and/or results of operations during the period in which any such action would be resolved. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and any resulting loss. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and any resulting loss. We have established processes intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity, credit, market, interest rate, operational, legal and compliance, and reputational risk. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management processes and strategies. There may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. Also, breakdowns in our risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Bank may not be able to satisfy the conditions and obligations of the Consent Order that it consented and agreed to with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance. The Bank is subject to certain conditions and obligations of a Consent Order dated September 4, 2014 (the “Order”) that it consented and agreed to with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance (“Mississippi Banking Department”) relating to the Bank’s Bank Secrecy Act and Anti-Money Laundering Program. The Order requires the Bank to take certain actions, including, without limitation, (i) the creation of a subcommittee of the Board of Directors of the Bank to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Order, (ii) an assessment of the Bank’s personnel needs to ensure that an adequate number of qualified staff have been retained for the Bank’s BSA Department, (iii) the appointment of a qualified BSA officer, (iv) the development and implementation of a remediation plan to ensure and maintain compliance with the BSA, (v) the development of a system of internal controls that provides for policies and procedures for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and reporting high-risk accounts, suspicious activities, transactions involving non-customers, wire transfer recordkeeping and compliance with the requirements of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, (vi) independent testing on an annual basis for compliance by the Bank with the BSA, (vii) implementation of a training program for management and staff of the Bank on all aspects of the BSA and the Bank’s compliance therewith, (viii) the development and implementation of a Look Back Review Plan to review deposit account and transaction activity from June 6, 2013 through May 31, 2014, (ix) the development and implementation of a Customer Due Diligence Program, (x) revise the Bank’s BSA/AML Risk Assessment, and (xi) the development and implementation of a written program for monitoring and reporting suspicious activity. Prior to implementation, certain of these actions are subject to review by, and the approval of, the FDIC and the Mississippi Banking Department. In addition, within forty-five (45) days after the effective date of the Order, the Bank (i) must eliminate or correct all deficiencies identified by the FDIC and (ii) must implement procedures to ensure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including the BSA. Although the Bank has begun implementing corrective actions and expects that it will be able to undertake and implement all other required actions within the time periods specified in the Order, failure to comply with the Order could result in enforcement actions by the FDIC and/or the Mississippi Banking Department that could result in monetary penalties and that could otherwise have a materially adverse effect upon the Company and the Bank’s assets, business, cash flows, financial condition, liquidity, prospects and/or results of operations. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 