ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may not be based on historical facts and are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended. These forward-looking statements may be identified by reference to a future period(s) or by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “predict,” “foresee,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “would,” “could” or “intend,” future or conditional verb tenses, and variations or negatives of such terms. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, those relating to the expiration of the Company’s trademarks, the Company’s ability to compete effectively, the effect of changes 19 Table of Contents in laws, governmental regulations and legislative proposals affecting financial institutions, examinations of the Company by the Federal Reserve, the Company’s operating results, growth strategies and growth opportunities, interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, unsecured loans, credit card losses, commercial loans, mortgage loans, economic conditions in the Company’s market area and the impact of the economic downturn on the Company’s financial condition, internal control over financial reporting, maturities of held-to-maturity securities, valuation of mortgage servicing rights, diversification of revenue stream, the Company’s policy regarding underwriting and lending practices, asset quality, net interest revenue, net interest margin, interest rate sensitivity, credit quality and credit losses, capital resources, sources of liquidity and liquidity strategies, sources of maturing loans and investment securities, sales of loans held for sale, cash from operating activities, deposits, non-performing assets, cost controls, the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends, future acquisitions, market risk, significant accounting policies, the impact of recent accounting pronouncements, estimated amortization expense of amortizable identifiable intangible assets, indirect lending activities, market conditions, stock repurchase program, exposure to the credit issues affecting the sub-prime residential mortgage market, allowance for credit losses, financial condition of the Company’s borrowers, off-balance sheet commitments and arrangements, future lease payments, pension and other post-retirement benefit amounts, loans in the Bank’s consumer finance subsidiary, expansion of products and services offered by the Company’s insurance agencies, charge-offs, legal and regulatory limitations and compliance, junior subordinated debt securities and the effect of certain legal claims and pending lawsuits. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report in that actual results could differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • Local, regional and national economic conditions and the impact they may have on the Company and its customers and the Company’s assessment of that impact; • Volatility and disruption in national and international financial markets; • Government intervention in the U.S. financial system; • The ability of the Company to increase noninterest revenue and expand noninterest revenue business; • Changes in general business or economic conditions or government fiscal and monetary policies; • Fluctuations in prevailing interest rates and the effectiveness of the Company’s interest rate hedging strategies; • The ability of the Company to maintain credit quality; • The ability of the Company to provide and market competitive products and services; • Changes in the Company’s operating or expansion strategy; • Geographic concentration of the Company’s assets and susceptibility to economic downturns in that area; • The availability of and costs associated with maintaining and/or obtaining adequate and timely sources of liquidity; • Laws and regulations affecting financial institutions in general; • The ability of the Company to operate and integrate new technology; • The ability of the Company to manage its growth and effectively serve an expanding customer and market base; • The ability of the Company to attract, train and retain qualified personnel; • Changes in consumer preferences; • The ability of the Company to repurchase its common stock on favorable terms; • The ability of the Company to collect amounts due under loan agreements and to attract deposits; • Legislation and court decisions related to the amount of damages recoverable in legal proceedings; • Possible adverse rulings, judgments, settlements and other outcomes of pending litigation; and • Other factors generally understood to affect the financial results of financial services companies. The Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Report. In addition to the factors listed above that could influence our forward-looking statements, management believes that the risk factors set forth below should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business. Other relevant risk factors are outlined below and may be supplemented from time to time in the Company’s press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 20 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of sub-prime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the United States government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, the 2008 business environment was adverse for many households and businesses in the United States. The business environment in the markets in which we operate has been less adverse than in the broader United States but continues to deteriorate. It is possible that the business environment in the United States will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, our results of operations and our financial condition. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure owed to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance any acquisitions or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or to be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan and lease portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Provisions for Credit Losses and Allowance for Credit Losses” included herein for more information regarding our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. BancorpSouth, Inc. is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act and BancorpSouth Bank is a Mississippi state banking corporation. Both are subject to extensive governmental regulation, supervision, legislation and control. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These laws and regulations limit the manner in which we operate, including the amount of loans we can originate, interest we can charge on loans and fees we can charge for certain services. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. It is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the near future in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in 22 Table of Contents substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. We cannot predict the extent to which the government and governmental organizations may change any of these laws or controls. We also cannot predict how such changes would adversely affect our business and prospects. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference or spread between interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities may fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including: • The rate of inflation; • Economic conditions; • Federal monetary policies; and • Stability of domestic and foreign markets. The Bank originates residential mortgage loans for sale and for our portfolio. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the level of interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and fee income, which we report as gain on sale of loans. Decreasing interest rates generally result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This typically leads to reinvestment at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely effected if we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates. Monetary policies and economic factors may limit our ability to attract deposits or make loans. The monetary policies of federal regulatory authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve, and economic conditions in our service area and the United States generally, affect our ability to attract deposits and extend loans. We cannot predict either the nature and timing of any changes in these monetary policies and economic conditions, including the Federal Reserve’s interest rate policies, or their impact on our financial performance. The banking business is subject to various material business risks, which have become more acute during the current environment of economic slowdown and recession. In the current economic environment, foreclosures have increased and such conditions could also lead to a potential decline in deposits and demand for loans. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect local economies where we maintain branch offices or cause disruption or damage to our branch office locations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have operations in Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas and Florida, which include areas susceptible to hurricanes or tropical storms. Such weather conditions can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations or negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. In late August 2005, Hurricane Katrina devastated parts of the Mississippi Gulf Coast, causing substantial damage to residences and businesses in these areas, including 13 of our banking locations. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes or storms will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather conditions could result in a decline in loan originations and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of devastating hurricanes or storms. We face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. Historically, we have grown through the acquisition of other financial institutions as well as the development of de novo offices. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions in the future that we believe are strategic. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully or integrate such acquisitions with our current business. Upon completion of an acquisition, we are faced with the challenges of integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of acquired companies into our business, which may divert management’s attention from ongoing business operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in effectively integrating any acquisition into the operations of our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. 23 Table of Contents The success of our acquisitions is dependent on the continued employment of key employees. If acquired businesses do not meet projected revenue targets, or if certain key employees were to leave, we could conclude that the value of the businesses has decreased and that the related goodwill has been impaired. If we were to conclude that goodwill has been impaired, it would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Issuing additional shares of our common stock to acquire other banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies may result in dilution for existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In connection with our growth strategy, we have issued, and may issue in the future, shares of our common stock to acquire additional banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies. Resales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market and the potential of such sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We usually must pay an acquisition premium above the fair market value of acquired assets for the acquisition of banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies. Paying this acquisition premium, in addition to the dilutive effect of issuing additional shares, may also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law. We derive our income solely from dividends received from owning the Bank’s common stock. Federal and state law limit the Bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends. In addition, the Federal Reserve may impose restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock. Our growth strategy includes risks that could have an adverse effect on financial performance. A significant element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of additional banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies in order to achieve greater economies of scale. We cannot assure you that appropriate growth opportunities will continue to exist, that we will be able to acquire banks, insurance agencies, bank holding companies and financial holding companies that satisfy our criteria or that any such acquisitions will be on terms favorable to us. Further, our growth strategy requires that we continue to hire qualified personnel, while concurrently expanding our managerial and operational infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire and retain qualified personnel or that we will be able to successfully expand our infrastructure to accommodate future acquisitions or growth. As a result of these factors, we may not realize the expected economic benefits associated with our acquisitions. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Diversification in types of financial services may adversely affect our financial performance. As part of our business strategy, we may further diversify our lines of business into areas that are not traditionally associated with the banking business. As a result, we would need to manage the development of new business lines in which we have not previously participated. Each new business line would require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to develop and integrate the service subsidiaries with our traditional banking operations. We can offer no assurances that we will be able to develop and integrate new services without adversely affecting our financial performance. We compete with other financial holding companies, bank holding companies, banks, insurance and financial services companies. The banking, insurance and financial services businesses are extremely competitive in our service areas in Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Missouri and Illinois. We compete, and will continue to compete, with well-established banks, credit unions, insurance agencies and other financial institutions, some of which have significantly greater resources and lending limits. Some of our competitors provide certain services that we do not provide. 24 Table of Contents Information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of these information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions may discourage a change of our control. Our governing documents and certain agreements to which we are a party contain provisions which make a change-in-control difficult to accomplish, and may discourage a potential acquirer. These include a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” a classified or “staggered” Board of Directors, change-in-control agreements with members of management and supermajority voting requirements. These anti-takeover provisions may have an adverse effect on the market for our common stock. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Bank Insurance Funds, any other governmental agency or instrumentality or any private insurer and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of your investment. We could be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2008, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $269.0 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we are required to write down the carrying value of these assets. We conduct a review at least annually to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. We completed such an impairment analysis in 2008 and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2008. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and financial results and could cause a decline in our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 