ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may not be based on historical facts and are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended. These forward-looking statements may be identified by reference to a future period(s) or by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “predict,” “foresee,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “would,” “could” or “intend,” future or conditional verb tenses, and variations or negatives of such terms. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, those relating to the expiration of the Company’s trademarks, the Company’s ability to compete effectively, the effect of changes in laws, governmental regulations and legislative proposals affecting financial institutions, examinations of the Company by the Federal Reserve, Company’s operating results, growth strategies and growth opportunities, interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, unsecured loans, credit card losses, commercial loans, mortgage loans, economic conditions in the Company’s market area, internal control over financial reporting, maturities of held-to-maturity securities, valuation of mortgage servicing rights, diversification of revenue stream, the Company’s policy regarding asset quality, net interest revenue, net interest margin, interest rate sensitivity, credit quality and credit losses, capital resources, sources of liquidity and liquidity strategies, sources of maturing loans and investment securities, sales of loans held for sale, cash from operating activities, deposits, non-performing assets, the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends, future acquisitions, market risk, significant accounting policies, underwriting and loan administration policies, indirect lending activities, market conditions, stock repurchase program, the impact of Hurricane Katrina, allowance for credit losses, financial condition of the Company’s borrowers, off-balance sheet arrangements, pension and other post-retirement benefit amounts, loans in the Bank’s consumer finance subsidiary, expansion of products and services offered by the Company’s insurance agencies, charge-offs, legal and regulatory limitations and compliance, junior subordinated debt securities and the effect of certain legal claims and pending lawsuits. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report in that actual results could differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • The ability of the Company to increase noninterest revenue and expand noninterest revenue business; • Changes in general business or economic conditions or government fiscal and monetary policies; • Fluctuations in prevailing interest rates and the effectiveness of the Company’s interest rate hedging strategies; • The ability of the Company to maintain credit quality; • The ability of the Company to provide and market competitive products and services; • Changes in the Company’s operating or expansion strategy; • Geographic concentration of the Company’s assets and susceptibility to economic downturns in that area; • The availability of and costs associated with maintaining and/or obtaining adequate and timely sources of liquidity; • Laws and regulations affecting financial institutions in general; • The ability of the Company to operate and integrate new technology; • The ability of the Company to manage its growth and effectively serve an expanding customer and market base; • The ability of the Company to attract, train and retain qualified personnel; • Changes in consumer preferences; 17 Table of Contents • The ability of the Company to repurchase its common stock on favorable terms; • The ability of the Company to collect amounts due under loan agreements and to attract deposits; • Legislation and court decisions related to the amount of damages recoverable in legal proceedings; • Possible adverse rulings, judgments, settlements and other outcomes of pending litigation; and • Other factors generally understood to affect the financial results of financial services companies. The Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Report. In addition to the factors listed above that could influence our forward-looking statements, management believes that the risk factors set forth below should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business. Other relevant risk factors are outlined below and may be supplemented from time to time in the Company’s press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We realize net interest income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt our business. We derive our net interest income mainly from the difference or spread between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Interest rates affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of the spread between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including: • The rate of inflation; • Economic conditions; • Federal monetary policies; and • Stability of domestic and foreign markets. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of prepayments on loans as well as the payments received on mortgage backed securities, requiring the reinvestment at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. The Bank originates a significant amount of residential mortgage loans for sale and for our portfolio. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the level of interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently fee income, which we report as gain on sale of loans. Conversely, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of mortgage servicing rights on the loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, the Company may be required to write down the value of our mortgage servicing rights faster than anticipated, which will increase expense and lower earnings. Monetary policies and economic factors may limit our ability to attract deposits or make loans. The monetary policies of federal regulatory authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve, and economic conditions in our service area and the United States generally, affect our ability to attract deposits and extend loans. We cannot predict either the nature and timing of any changes in these monetary policies and economic conditions, 18 Table of Contents including the Federal Reserve’s interest rate policies, or their impact on our financial performance. The banking business is subject to various material business risks, which may become more acute in periods of economic slowdown or recession. During such periods, foreclosures generally increase and such conditions could also lead to a potential decline in deposits and demand for loans. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan and lease portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual losses, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, and may also cause us to increase the allowance in the future. Further, our net income could decrease for any period in which we add additional amounts to our allowance for credit losses. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect local economies where we maintain branch offices or cause disruption or damage to our branch office locations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have operations in Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas and Florida, which include areas susceptible to hurricanes or tropical storms. Such weather conditions can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations or negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. In late August 2005, Hurricane Katrina devastated parts of the Mississippi Gulf Coast, causing substantial damage to residences and businesses in these areas, including 13 of our banking locations. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes or storms will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather conditions could result in a decline in loan originations and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of devastating hurricanes or storms. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation. BancorpSouth, Inc. is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act and BancorpSouth Bank is a Mississippi state banking corporation. Both are subject to extensive governmental regulation, legislation and control. These laws and regulations limit the manner in which we operate, including the amount of loans we can originate, interest we can charge on loans and fees we can charge for certain services. We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, the government and governmental organizations may change any of these laws or controls. We also cannot predict how such changes would adversely affect our business and prospects. We face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. Historically, we have grown through the acquisition of other financial institutions as well as the development of de novo offices. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions in the future that we believe are strategic. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully or integrate such acquisitions with our current business. Upon completion of an acquisition, we are faced with the challenges of integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of acquired companies into our business, which may divert management’s attention from ongoing business operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in effectively integrating any acquisition into the operations of our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. The success of our acquisitions is dependent on the continued employment of key employees. If acquired businesses do not meet projected revenue targets, or if certain key employees were to leave, we could conclude that the value of the businesses has decreased and that the related goodwill has been impaired. If we were to conclude that goodwill has been impaired, it would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Issuing additional shares of our common stock to acquire other banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies may result in dilution for existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In connection with our growth strategy, we have issued, and may issue in the future, shares of our common stock to acquire additional banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies. 19 Table of Contents Resales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market and the potential of such sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We usually must pay an acquisition premium above the fair market value of acquired assets for the acquisition of banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies. Paying this acquisition premium, in addition to the dilutive effect of issuing additional shares, may also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law. We derive our income solely from dividends received from owning the Bank’s common stock. Federal and state law limit the Bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends. In addition, the Federal Reserve may impose restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock. Our growth strategy includes risks that could have an adverse effect on financial performance. A significant element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of additional banks, bank holding companies, financial holding companies and insurance agencies in order to achieve greater economies of scale. We cannot assure you that the current level of growth opportunities will continue to exist, that we will be able to acquire banks, insurance agencies, bank holding companies and financial holding companies that satisfy our criteria or that any such acquisitions will be on terms favorable to us. Further, our growth strategy requires that we continue to hire qualified personnel, while concurrently expanding our managerial and operational infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire and retain qualified personnel or that we will be able to successfully expand our infrastructure to accommodate future acquisitions or growth. As a result of these factors, we may not realize the expected economic benefits associated with our acquisitions. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Diversification in types of financial services may adversely affect our financial performance. As part of our business strategy, we may further diversify our lines of business into areas that are not traditionally associated with the banking business. As a result, we would need to manage the development of new business lines in which we have not previously participated. Each new business line would require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to develop and integrate the service subsidiaries with our traditional banking operations. We can offer no assurances that we will be able to develop and integrate new services without adversely affecting our financial performance. We compete with other financial holding companies, bank holding companies, banks, insurance and financial services companies. The banking business is extremely competitive in our service areas in Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Florida and Missouri. We compete, and will continue to compete, with well-established banks, credit unions, insurance agencies and other financial institutions, some of which have significantly greater resources and lending limits. Some of our competitors provide certain services that we do not provide. Anti-takeover provisions may discourage a change of our control. Our governing documents and certain agreements to which we are a party contain provisions which make a change-in-control difficult to accomplish, and may discourage a potential acquirer. These include a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” a classified or “staggered” Board of Directors, change-in-control agreements with members of management and supermajority voting requirements. These anti-takeover provisions may have an adverse effect on the market for our common stock. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured. Securities that we issue, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Bank Insurance Funds, any other governmental agency or instrumentality or any private insurer and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 20 Table of Contents 