ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face, but are those that we have identified as being the most significant factors that make investment in our stock speculative or risky or that have special application to us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about, or that we deem less significant than those identified below, may also make investment in our stock speculative or risky. If any of the adverse events associated with the risks described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such a case, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our investment portfolio is subject to various risks that may result in realized investment losses. In particular, decreases in the fair value of fixed maturities may greatly reduce the value of our investments, and as a result, our financial condition may suffer. We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations under these securities could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the continued recognition of investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in the preferred stocks and bonds included in our portfolio and by other factors that may result in the continued recognition of other-than-temporary impairments. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio. 18 In particular, at December 31, 2008, fixed maturities represented $608.5 million or 79.9% of our total investments of $761.1 million. The fair value of fixed maturities and the related investment income fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us will generally increase or decrease in line with changes in market interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur e arlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. The impact of value fluctuations affects our Consolidated Financial Statements. Because all of our fixed maturities are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair value of our securities are reflected in our stockholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income or loss). No similar adjustment is made for liabilities to reflect a change in interest rates. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations and economic conditions could adversely affect our stockholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or cash flows. For mortgage-backed securities, credit risk exists if mortgagees default on the underlying mortgages. Although at December 31, 2008, approximately 99.1% of the fixed maturities were investment grade and continue to be rated on average AA, all of our fixed maturities are subject to credit risk. If any of the issuers of our fixed maturities suffer financial setbacks, the ratings on the fixed maturities could fall (with a concurrent fall in fair value) and, in a worst case scenario, the issuer could default on its financial obligations. If the issuer defaults, we could have realized losses associated with the impairment of the securities. We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure that investments that are other-than-temporarily impaired are identified in a timely fashion, properly valued and any impairment is charged against earnings in the proper period. Assessment factors include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and rating of the issuer, whether any collateral is held and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery. However, the determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Therefore, changes in facts and circumstances and critical assumptions could result in management’s decision that further impairments have occurred. This could lead to additional losses on investments, particularly those that management has the intent and ability to hold until recovery in value occurs. Our earnings could be materially affected by an impairment of goodwill. Goodwill represented $52,331,000 of our $1,273,894,000 in total assets as of December 31, 2008. We review our goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We regularly assess whether any indicators of impairment exist, which requires a significant amount of judgment. Such indicators may include: a sustained significant decline in our share price and market capitalization; a decline in our expected future cash flows; a significant adverse change in the business climate; and/or slower growth rates, among others. Any adverse change in one of these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. During 2008, we experienced a significant decline in our stock price. Due to this significant decline, our market capitalization as of December 31, 2008 was significantly below the sum of o ur reporting units’ fair values. If we experience a sustained decline in our results of operations and cash flows, or other indicators of impairment exist, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings relating to impairment of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results. 19 Changes in state and federal regulations, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Congress and state legislatures continue to focus on health care issues. In addition, the 2008 elections resulted in a renewed focus on health care and health insurance, and several key legislators and some of the newly appointed and elected officials, including in the executive branch, have proposed significant changes to the existing system. Potential reforms include, but are not limited to: mandating universal coverage; imposing more restrictive regulation of the underwriting and marketing of health insurance; making generally available a government-sponsored health plan as an alternative to private insurance; and changing the federal income tax laws relating to the deductibility of health insurance premiums. A number of states are contemplating significant reform of their health insurance markets. These proposals include provisions affecting both public programs and privately financed health insurance arrangements. &n bsp; We cannot assure you that, if enacted into law, any of these proposals would not have a material, adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Less-fundamental change in the regulatory requirements imposed on us may also harm our business or results of operations. For example, some states have imposed time limits for the payment of uncontested covered claims and required health care and dental service plans to pay interest on uncontested claims not paid promptly within the required time period. Some states have also granted their insurance regulatory agencies additional authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on health and dental plans engaging in certain unfair payment practices. If we were unable, for any reason, to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If rating agencies downgrade our insurance companies, our results of operations and competitive position in the industry may suffer. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Standard Security Life and Madison National Life are both rated "A-" (Excellent) by A.M. Best Company, Inc. Best's ratings reflect its opinions of an insurance company's financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. The ratings of Standard Security Life and Madison National Life are subject to periodic review by Best. If Best reduces either or both Madison National Life's or Standard Security Life's ratings from its current levels, our business would be adversely affected. Given the current economic and political climates, our stock may be increasingly subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. The price of our common stock could fluctuate or decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. During 2008, the stock markets experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. Company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have caused this volatility. Our stock price declined significantly during 2008 and may continue to materially fluctuate in 2009 in response to a number of events and factors, including: quarterly variations in our reported results; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; sales of stock by insiders; and changes in our financial strength ratings. These factors could materially reduce our stock price. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 20 Our loss reserves are based on an estimate of our future liability, and if actual claims prove to be greater than our reserves, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, where material, including legal and other fees, and costs not associated with specific claims but related to the claims payment functions for reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot be sure that current reserves will prove adequate. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we would have to augment our reserves and incur a charge to our earnings, and these charges could be material. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on our assessment of known fact s and circumstances. Many factors could affect these reserves, including economic and social conditions, frequency and severity of claims, medical trend resulting from the influences of underlying cost inflation, changes in utilization and demand for medical services, and changes in doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to us. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled and are reflected in the result s of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Our results may fluctuate as a result of factors generally affecting the insurance and reinsurance industry. The results of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Factors that affect the industry in general could also cause our results to fluctuate. The industry and our financial condition and results of operations may be affected significantly by: · Fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital; · Rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; · Losses related to epidemics, terrorist activities, random acts of violence or declared or undeclared war; · Changes in reserves resulting from different types of claims that may arise and the development of judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liability; · The overall level of economic activity and the competitive environment in the industry; · Greater than expected use of health care services by members; · New mandated benefits or other regulatory changes that change the scope of business or increase our costs; and · Failure of MGUs to adhere to underwriting guidelines as required by us in its MGU agreements. The occurrence of any or a combination of these factors, which is beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results. 21 Our inability to assess underwriting risk accurately could reduce our net income. Our success is dependent on our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses on which we retain risk. If we fail to assess accurately the risks we retain, we may fail to establish the appropriate premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses, requiring augmentation of the reserves, which in turn would reduce our net income. Our agreements with our producers (including our MGUs) require that each producer follow underwriting guidelines published by us and amended from time to time. Failure to follow these guidelines may result in termination or modification of the agreement. We perform periodic audits to confirm adherence to the guidelines, but it is possible that we would not detect a breach in the guidelines for some time after the infraction, which could result in a material impact on the Net Loss Ratio (defined as insurance benefits, claims and reserves divided by (premiums earned less underwriting expenses)) for that producer and could have an adverse impact on our operating results. If we fail to comply with extensive state and federal regulations, we will be subject to penalties, which may include fines and suspension and which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things: · Approval of policy forms and premium rates; · Standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; · Licensing of insurers and their agents and regulation of their conduct in the market; · Restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · Restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; · Restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; · Requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; · Requiring certain methods of accounting; · Prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and · Requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. A large portion of our business depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or interpretations that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our insurance-related activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 We may be unsuccessful in competing against larger or better-established business rivals. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We face competition from specialty insurance companies and HMOs, and from diversified financial services companies and insurance companies that are much larger than we are and that have far greater financial, marketing and other resources. Some of these competitors also have longer experience and more market recognition than we do in certain lines of business. In addition to competition in the operation of our business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we operate, or that we will be able to expand operations into new markets. If we fail to do so, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We rely on reinsurance arrangements to help manage our business risks, and failure to perform by the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements may expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. We utilize reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Our reinsurers may be unable or unwilling to pay the reinsurance recoverable owed to us now or in the future or on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability. Deferred acquisition costs, or DAC, represent certain costs which vary with and are primarily related to the sale and issuance of our insurance policies and investment contracts and are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies and contracts. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions and certain other sales incentives, solicitation and printing costs, sales material and other costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under U.S. GAAP, DAC is amortized through operations over the lives of the underlying contracts in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums or gross profits. Our amortization of DAC generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy and contract charges, mortality, morbidity and maintenance and expense margins. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, mortality, morbidity, withdrawals or lapses may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC, resulting in higher expenses and lower profitability. We regularly review our DAC asset balance to determine if it is recoverable from future income. The portion of the DAC balance deemed to be unrecoverable, if any, is charged to expense in the period in which we make this determination. For example, if we determine that we are unable to recover DAC from profits over the life of a book of business of insurance policies or annuity contracts, or if withdrawals or surrender charges associated with early withdrawals do not fully offset the unamortized acquisition costs related to those policies or annuities, we would be required to recognize the additional DAC amortization as a current-period expense. In general, we limit our deferral of acquisition costs to costs assumed in our pricing assumptions. The failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have different information systems for our various businesses. We have committed and will continue to commit 23 significant resources to develop, maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to protect our policyholder’s confidential information and privacy could adversely affect our business. In the conduct of our business, we are subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. For example, the collection and use of patient data in our health insurance operations is the subject of national and state legislation, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and certain other activities we conduct are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. We also have contractual obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors, partners and policyholders. These obligations generally include protecting such confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. If we do not properly comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, such as penalties, fines and loss of license, as well as loss of reputation and possible litigation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 