ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many of the factors that affect our business and operations involve risk and uncertainty. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face, but are those that we have identified as being the most significant factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about, or that we deem less significant than those identified below, may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Risks related to our Business Our investment portfolio is subject to various risks that may result in realized investment losses. In particular, decreases in the fair value of fixed maturities may greatly reduce the value of our investments, and as a result, our financial condition may suffer. We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations under these securities could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the continued recognition of investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in the preferred stocks and bonds included in our portfolio and by other factors that may result in the continued recognition of other-than-temporary impairments. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio. In particular, at December 31, 2012, fixed maturities represented $719.6 million or 88.7% of our total investments of $811.4 million. The fair value of fixed maturities and the related investment income fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us will generally increase or decrease in line with changes in market interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. The impact of value fluctuations affects our Consolidated Financial Statements. Because all of our fixed maturities are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair value of our securities are reflected in our stockholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income or loss). No similar adjustment is made for liabilities to reflect a change in interest rates. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations and economic conditions could adversely affect our stockholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or cash flows. For mortgage-backed securities, credit risk exists if mortgagees default on the underlying mortgages. Although, at December 31, 2012, approximately 98.1% of the fixed maturities were investment grade and continue to be rated on average AA, all of our fixed maturities are subject to credit risk. If any of the issuers of our fixed maturities suffer financial setbacks, the ratings on the fixed maturities could fall (with a concurrent fall in fair value) and, in a worst case scenario, the issuer could default on its financial obligations. If the issuer defaults, we could have realized losses associated with the impairment of the securities. We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure that investments that are other-than-temporarily impaired are identified in a timely fashion, properly valued and any impairment is charged against earnings in the proper period. Assessment factors include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and rating of the issuer, whether any collateral is held and the Company's intent to sell, or be required to sell, debt securities before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis. However, the determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Therefore, changes in facts and circumstances and critical assumptions could result in management’s decision that further impairments have occurred. This could lead to additional losses on investments, particularly those that management has the intent and ability to hold until recovery in value occurs. Our earnings could be materially affected by an impairment of goodwill. Goodwill represented $50.3 million of our $1.3 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2012. We review our goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We regularly assess whether any indicators of impairment exist, which requires a significant amount of judgment. Such indicators may include: a sustained significant decline in our share price and market capitalization; a decline in our expected future cash flows; a significant adverse change in the business climate; and/or slower growth rates, among others. Any adverse change in one of these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. If we experience a sustained decline in our results of operations and cash flows, or other indicators of impairment exist, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings relating to impairment of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results. If rating agencies downgrade our insurance companies, our results of operations and competitive position in the industry may suffer. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Standard Security Life, Madison National Life and Independence American are all rated "A-" (Excellent) by A.M. Best Company, Inc. Best's ratings reflect its opinions of an insurance company's financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. The ratings of our carriers are subject to periodic review by Best. If Best reduces the ratings of any of our carriers from current levels, our business would be adversely affected. Our loss reserves are based on an estimate of our future liability, and if actual claims prove to be greater than our reserves, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, where material, including legal and other fees, and costs not associated with specific claims but related to the claims payment functions for reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot be sure that current reserves will prove adequate. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we would have to augment our reserves and incur a charge to our earnings, and these charges could be material. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on our assessment of known facts and circumstances. Many factors could affect these reserves, including economic and social conditions, frequency and severity of claims, medical trend resulting from the influences of underlying cost inflation, changes in utilization and demand for medical services, and changes in doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to us. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled and are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Our inability to assess underwriting risk accurately could reduce our net income. Our success is dependent on our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses on which we retain risk. If we fail to assess accurately the risks we retain, we may fail to establish the appropriate premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses, requiring augmentation of the reserves, which in turn would reduce our net income. Our agreements with our producers that underwrite on our behalf require that each such producer follow underwriting guidelines published by us and amended from time to time. Failure to follow these guidelines may result in termination or modification of the agreement. We perform periodic audits to confirm adherence to the guidelines, but it is possible that we would not detect a breach in the guidelines for some time after the infraction, which could result in a material impact on the Net Loss Ratio (defined as insurance benefits, claims and reserves divided by the difference between premiums earned and underwriting expenses) for that producer and could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We may be unsuccessful in competing against larger or better-established business rivals. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We face competition from specialty insurance companies and HMOs, and from diversified financial services companies and insurance companies that are much larger than we are and that have far greater financial, marketing and other resources. Some of these competitors also have longer experience and more market recognition than we do in certain lines of business. In addition to competition in the operation of our business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. We cannot assure you that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we operate, or that we will be able to expand operations into new markets. If we fail to do so, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We rely on reinsurance arrangements to help manage our business risks, and failure to perform by the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements may expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. We utilize reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Our reinsurers may be unable or unwilling to pay the reinsurance recoverable owed to us now or in the future or on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability. Deferred acquisition costs, or DAC, represent certain costs which vary with and are primarily related to the sale and issuance of our insurance policies and investment contracts and are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies and contracts. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions and certain other sales incentives, solicitation and printing costs, sales material and other costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), DAC is amortized through operations over the lives of the underlying contracts in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums or gross profits. Our amortization of DAC generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy and contract charges, mortality, morbidity and maintenance and expense margins. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, mortality, morbidity, withdrawals or lapses may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC, resulting in higher expenses and lower profitability. We regularly review our DAC asset balance to determine if it is recoverable from future income. The portion of the DAC balance deemed to be unrecoverable, if any, is charged to expense in the period in which we make this determination. For example, if we determine that we are unable to recover DAC from profits over the life of a book of business of insurance policies or annuity contracts, or if withdrawals or surrender charges associated with early withdrawals do not fully offset the unamortized acquisition costs related to those policies or annuities, we would be required to recognize the additional DAC amortization as a current-period expense. In general, we limit our deferral of acquisition costs to costs assumed in our pricing assumptions. The failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have different information systems for our various businesses. We have committed and will continue to commit significant resources to develop, maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to protect our policyholders' confidential information and privacy could adversely affect our business. In the conduct of our business, we are subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. For example, the collection and use of patient data in our health insurance operations is the subject of national and state legislation, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and certain other activities we conduct are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. We also have contractual obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors, partners and policyholders. These obligations generally include protecting such confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. If we do not properly comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, such as penalties, fines and loss of license, as well as loss of reputation and possible litigation. Risks Related to our Industry Our industry is highly regulated and changes in regulations affecting our businesses may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws and regulated by the insurance departments of the various states in which they are domiciled and licensed, which, among other things, conduct periodic examination of insurance companies. State laws grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to various aspects of our insurance businesses, including: • licensing companies and agents to transact business and regulating their respective conduct in the market; • approving policy forms and premium rates; • requiring certain methods of accounting and prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; • calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; • establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements, such as for unearned premiums and losses; • regulating certain premium rates and requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; • establishing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies; • establishing standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; • mandating certain insurance benefits and restricting the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; • requiring the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters; • approving changes in control of insurance companies; • restricting transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates, including the payment of dividends to affiliates; and • regulating the nature or types, concentration or amounts, quality and valuation of investments. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which was signed into law in July 2010 by President Obama, created a Federal Insurance Office. While the office will not directly regulate domestic insurance business, it will monitor all aspects of the insurance industry, including identifying gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a crisis in the insurance industry and/or the U.S. economy. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the office to make recommendations that certain insurers be subject to more stringent regulation, and conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”). While the CFPB does not have direct jurisdiction over insurance products, it is possible that regulations promulgated by the CFPB may extend its authority more broadly to cover certain insurance products and thereby may adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, federal legislation and administrative policies in other areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including general financial services regulation, securities regulation, privacy regulation, tort reform legislation, and taxation. We are uncertain as to the impact that this new legislation and regulatory guidance will have on the Company and cannot assure that it will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance efforts and other expenses of doing business. Federal healthcare reform may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Although health insurance is generally regulated at the state level, recent legislative actions were taken at the federal levels that impose added restrictions on our business. The ACA was signed into law by President Obama in March 2010. Provisions of the ACA and related reforms have and will become effective at various dates over the next several years and will make sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system that are expected to significantly affect the health insurance industry. Although we cannot predict or quantify the precise effects of the ACA on our business, the effects on our Company will include, in particular, a requirement that we pay rebates to customers if the loss ratios for some of our products lines are less than specified percentages; the need to reduce commissions and the consequent risk that insurance producers may sell less of our products than they have in the past; limits on lifetime and annual benefit maximums; a prohibition from imposing any pre-existing condition exclusion; limits on our ability to rescind coverage except for intentional fraud; increased costs to modify and/or sell our products; intensified competitive pressures that limit our ability to increase rates; significant risk of customer loss; new and higher taxes and fees to generate the revenues to implement the ACA; and the need to operate with a lower expense structure at both the business segment and enterprise level. The consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are unknown and speculative at this point. A number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the ACA’s provisions, such as the establishment of state-run exchanges, and initiated lawsuits that are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the ACA. We expect that the ACA, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products. Furthermore, if the state-run exchanges mandated by the ACA are established in every state, and if the Company elects not to make its products available inside such exchanges, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. We will continue to monitor the implementation of ACA and reassess our business strategies accordingly. We have made, and are continuing to make, significant changes to our operations, products and strategy to adapt to the new environment. However, if our plans for operating in the new environment are unsuccessful or if there is less demand than we expect for our products in the new environment, our results could be adversely affected. Changes in state regulations, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some states have imposed time limits for the payment of uncontested covered claims and require health care and dental service plans to pay interest on uncontested claims not paid promptly within the required time period. Some states have also granted their insurance regulatory agencies additional authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on health and dental plans engaging in certain unfair payment practices. If we were unable, for any reason, to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the results of these studies or other such proposals, if enacted, may have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to comply with extensive state and federal regulations, we will be subject to penalties, which may include fines and suspension and which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A large portion of our business depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, revoke or deny licenses and approvals. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or interpretations that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our insurance-related activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Legal and regulatory investigations and actions are increasingly common in the insurance business and may result in financial losses and harm our reputation. We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits and individual lawsuits relating, among other things, to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, interest crediting practices, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, which may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas, market conduct exams and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities, which may result in fines, recommendations for corrective action or other regulatory actions. Even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended liability for claims and coverage may emerge. These changing conditions may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for a significant period after a contract is issued, and our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our results may fluctuate as a result of factors generally affecting the insurance and reinsurance industry. The results of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry and our financial condition and results of operations may be affected significantly by: · Fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital; · Rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; · Losses related to epidemics, terrorist activities, random acts of violence or declared or undeclared war; · Development of judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liability; · The overall level of economic activity and the competitive environment in the industry; · Greater than expected use of health care services by members; · New mandated benefits or other regulatory changes that change the scope of business or increase our costs; and · Failure of MGUs, agents, third-party administrators and producers to adhere to the underwriting guidelines, market-conduct practices and other requirements (as applicable) under their agreements with us. The occurrence of any or a combination of these factors, which is beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results. We may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates because the insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, which could cause our results to fluctuate. The insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity, as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted an increase in pricing and, thus, more favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often, over time, offset by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer opportunities to underwrite insurance risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Failures elsewhere in the insurance industry could obligate us to pay assessments through guaranty associations. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in that state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. When an insurance company becomes insolvent, state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess other insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to pay obligations to policyholders of the insolvent company, up to the state-specific limit of coverage. The total amount of the assessment is based on the number of insured residents in each state, and each company’s portion is based on its proportionate share of premium volume in the relevant lines of business. The future failure of a large life, health or annuity insurer could trigger assessments which we would be obligated to pay. Further, amounts for historical insolvencies may be assessed over many years, and there can be significant uncertainty around the total obligation for a given insolvency. Existing liabilities may not be sufficient to fund the ultimate obligations of a historical insolvency, and we may be required to increase our liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 