Item 1A. Risk Factors The forward-looking statements contained under “Outlook for Fiscal 2011” in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and all other statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation, statements containing the words “believes,” “expects,” “projections,” and words of similar meaning, constitute forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Moreover, from time to time, we may issue other forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements regarding financial performance in future periods, including the statements under “Outlook for Fiscal 2011,” do not reflect potential impacts of mergers or acquisitions or other significant transactions or events that have not been announced as of the time the statements are made. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in forward-looking 7 Table of Contents statements. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect future events or revised expectations. Our business faces many risks, and set forth below are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Weakness in the United States (U.S.) and international economies may harm our business. Our revenue levels are generally dependent on the level of technology capital spending, which includes worldwide expenditures for electronic design automation (EDA) software, hardware, and consulting services. The global economy continues to be weak, with continuing uncertainty in the credit markets and banking systems, reduced capital spending, and significant job losses. This volatility and uncertainty about future economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and postpone decisions to license or purchase our products, decrease our customers’ spending, and jeopardize or delay our customers’ ability or willingness to make payment obligations, any of which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict the duration of the global economic downturn or subsequent recovery. Our forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate. Our revenues, particularly new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast revenues and trends in our business. Sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale, and the products or services to be sold. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the “conversion rate” of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. A variation in the conversion rate could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and materially adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. In particular, a slowdown in customer spending or weak economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in a particular quarter as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount, or cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter in an attempt to obtain more favorable terms. Our business could be impacted by fluctuations in quarterly results of operations due to customer seasonal purchasing patterns, the timing of significant orders, and the mix of licenses and products purchased by our customers. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, varied quarterly operating results. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results and some of these are not within our control, including customer demand and the timing of significant orders. We typically experience seasonality in demand for our products, due to the purchasing cycles of our customers, with revenues in the fourth quarter generally being the highest. If planned contract renewals with large customers are delayed or the average size of renewed contracts do not increase as we anticipate, we could fail to meet our and investors’ expectations, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. Our revenues are also affected by the mix of licenses entered into where we recognize software revenues as payments become due and payable, on a cash basis, or ratably over the license term as compared to revenues recognized at the beginning of the license term. We recognize revenues ratably over the license term, for instance, when the customer is provided with rights to unspecified or unreleased future products. A shift in the license mix toward increased ratable, due and payable, and/or cash-based revenue recognition could result in increased deferral of software revenues to future periods and would decrease current revenues, which could result in us not meeting near-term revenue expectations. The gross margin on our software is greater than that for our emulation hardware systems, software support, and professional services. Therefore, our gross margin may vary as a result of the mix of products and services sold. We have a significant amount of fixed or relatively fixed costs, such as employee costs and purchased technology amortization, and costs which are committed in advance and can only be adjusted periodically. As a result, a small failure to reach planned revenues would likely have a relatively large negative effect on gross margins and earnings. If anticipated revenues do not materialize as expected, our gross margins and earnings could be materially adversely impacted. 8 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the EDA industry. Competition in the EDA industry is intense, which can lead to, among other things, price reductions, longer selling cycles, lower product margins, loss of market share, and additional working capital requirements. If our competitors offer significant discounts on certain products, we may need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce margins and could materially adversely impact our operating results. Any broad-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and service revenues to decline or be delayed as the sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle certain software products at low prices for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could significantly reduce demand for our products or constrain prices we can charge. We currently compete primarily with two large companies: Synopsys, Inc. and Cadence Design Systems, Inc. We also compete with numerous smaller companies and compete with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed their own EDA products internally. Our international operations and the effects of foreign currency fluctuations expose us to additional risks. We typically generate about half of our revenues from customers outside the U.S. and we generate approximately one-third of our expenses outside the U.S. Significant changes in currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on us. In addition, international operations subject us to other risks including longer receivables collection periods, changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade protection measures, local labor laws, import or export licensing requirements, loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, limitations on repatriation of earnings, and difficulties with licensing and protecting our intellectual property rights. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from relatively few product groups. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of relatively few product groups and related support services. As such, any factor adversely affecting sales of these products, including the product release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, and economic and market conditions, could harm our operating results. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the integrated circuit (IC) and electronics systems industries. Purchases of our products and services are highly dependent upon new design projects initiated by customers in the IC and electronics systems industries. These industries are highly cyclical and are subject to constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries regularly experience significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles within such companies or decline in general economic conditions. These downturns could cause diminished demand for our products and services. Customer payment defaults or related issues could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have customer payment obligations not yet due that are attributable to software we have already delivered. These customer obligations are typically not cancelable, but will not yield the expected revenue and cash flow if the customer defaults or declares bankruptcy and fails to pay amounts owed. In these cases, we may generally take legal action to recover amounts owed, if warranted. Moreover, existing customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own businesses, particularly in the current troubled economic environment. Though we have not, to date, experienced a material level of defaults or renegotiated a material level of pre-existing contractual commitments, any material payment default by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These risks may be exacerbated by the global economic environment because our revenue forecasts assume: (i) customers whose payments are recognized as revenue only when paid will make future payments as scheduled, and (ii) customers whose credit ratings and financial circumstances have deteriorated since we originally booked contracts with them will make future payments as scheduled. 9 Table of Contents Customer payment defaults could adversely affect our timing of revenue recognition. We use fixed-term license agreements as standard business practices with customers we believe are creditworthy. These multi-year, multi-element term license agreements have payments spread over the license term and are typically about three years in length for semiconductor companies and about four years in length for military and aerospace companies. The complexity of these agreements tends to increase the risk associated with collectibility from customers that can arise for a variety of reasons including ability to pay, product dissatisfaction, and disputes. If we are unable to collect under these agreements, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We use these fixed-term license agreements as a standard business practice and have a history of successfully collecting under the original payment terms without making concessions on payments, products, or services. If we no longer had a history of collecting without providing concessions on the terms of the agreements, then revenue would be required to be recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as the payments become due and payable over the license term. This change could have a material impact on our results. IC and printed circuit board (PCB) technology evolves rapidly. The complexity of ICs and PCBs continues to rapidly increase. In response to this increasing complexity, new design tools and methodologies must be invented or acquired quickly to remain competitive. If we fail to quickly respond to new technological developments, our products could become obsolete or uncompetitive, which could materially adversely impact our business. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity and have unique specifications. Due to the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software, or the products or systems designed with or manufactured using our tools may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: • Loss of current customers and loss of, or delay in, revenue and loss of market share; • Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • Diversion of development resources to resolve the problems resulting from errors or defects; and • Increased support or service costs. In addition, we include limited amounts of third-party technology in our products and we rely on those third parties to provide support services to us. Failure of those third parties to provide necessary support services could materially adversely impact our business. Long sales cycles and delay in customer completion of projects make the timing of our revenues difficult to predict. We have a lengthy sales cycle. A lengthy customer evaluation and approval process is generally required due to the complexity and expense associated with our products and services. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenues and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services is sometimes discretionary and may be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects due to budgetary constraints, internal acceptance review procedures, timing of budget cycles, or timing of competitive evaluation processes. Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. Our indirect sales channel is comprised primarily of independent distributors. Our relationships with these distributors are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with distributors were terminated, if our relationships with distributors were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant distributor, or if the financial condition of our distributors were to weaken. Any loss of our leadership position in certain segments of the EDA market could harm our business. The industry in which we compete is characterized by very strong leadership positions in specific segments of the EDA market. For example, one company may have a large percentage of sales in the physical verification segment of the market while another may have a similarly strong position in mixed-signal simulation. These strong 10 Table of Contents leadership positions can be maintained for significant periods of time as the software is difficult to master and customers are disinclined to make changes once their employees, as well as others in the industry, have developed familiarity with a particular software product. For these reasons, much of our profitability arises from niche areas in which we are the leader. Conversely, it is difficult for us to achieve significant profits in niche areas where other companies are the leaders. If for any reason we lose our leadership position in a niche, we could be materially adversely impacted. Accounting rules governing revenue recognition are complex and may change. The accounting rules governing software revenue recognition are complex and have been subject to authoritative interpretations that have generally made it more difficult to recognize software revenues at the beginning of the license period. If this trend continues, new and revised standards and interpretations could materially adversely impact our ability to meet near-term revenue expectations. We may have additional tax liabilities. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Our tax expense may be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arm’s-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by the tax authorities. Also, our tax expense could be impacted depending on the applicability of withholding and other taxes on software licenses and related intercompany transactions in certain jurisdictions. In determining the adequacy of income taxes, we assess the likelihood of the positions taken on our tax returns being sustained. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and tax authorities in other countries where we do business regularly examine our tax returns, and such examinations could result in adverse outcomes. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to operations that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Forecasting our income tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. The computation of income tax expense (benefit) is complex as it is based on the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions and requires significant judgment on the application of complicated rules governing accounting for tax provision under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Income tax expense (benefit) for interim quarters is based on a forecast of our global tax rate for the year, which includes forward looking financial projections, including the expectations of profit and loss by jurisdiction, and contains numerous assumptions. Various items cannot be accurately forecasted, and may be treated as discrete accounting. Examples of items which could cause variability in the rate include tax deductions for stock option expense, application of transfer pricing rules and changes in our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. Future events, such as changes in our business and the tax law in the jurisdictions where we do business, could also affect our rate. For these reasons, our global tax rate may be materially different than our forecast. There are limitations on the effectiveness of controls. We do not expect that disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially adversely impact us. We may not realize revenue as a result of our investments in research and development. We incur substantial expense to develop new software products. Research and development activities are often performed over long periods of time. This effort may not result in a successful product offering. As a result, we could realize little or no revenue related to our investment in research and development. We may acquire other companies and may not successfully integrate them. The industry in which we compete has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. During this period, we have acquired numerous businesses and we may acquire other businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze all potential transactions before committing to them, we cannot assure that any transaction that is 11 Table of Contents completed will result in long-term benefits to us or our shareholders or that we will be able to manage the acquired businesses effectively. In addition, growth through acquisition involves a number of risks. If any of the following events occurs after we acquire another business, it could materially adversely impact us: • Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • The substantial diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business when integrating the acquired business; • The discovery after the acquisition has been completed of previously unknown liabilities assumed with the acquired business; • The failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and increases in revenues; • The failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • Difficulties related to assimilating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering, and customer support areas; • Unanticipated costs; • Unanticipated litigation in connection with or as a result of an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, or third parties; • Adverse impacts on existing relationships with suppliers and customers; and • Failure to understand and compete effectively in markets in which we have limited experience. Acquired businesses may not perform as projected, which could result in impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. Additional challenges include integration of sales channels, training and education of the sales force for new product offerings, integration of product development efforts, integration of systems of internal controls, and integration of information systems. Accordingly, in any acquisition there will be uncertainty as to the achievement and timing of projected synergies, cost savings, and sales levels for acquired products. All of these factors could impair our ability to forecast, meet revenues and earnings targets, and manage effectively our business for long-term growth. We cannot assure that we can effectively meet these challenges. We may not adequately protect our proprietary rights or we may fail to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses. Our success depends, in large part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses, and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure that third parties will not try to challenge, invalidate, or circumvent these protections. The companies in the EDA industry, as well as entities and persons outside the industry, are obtaining patents at a rapid rate. Many of these entities have substantially larger patent portfolios than we have. As a result, we may on occasion be forced to engage in costly patent litigation to protect our rights or defend our customers’ rights. We may also need to settle these claims on terms that are unfavorable; such settlements could result in the payment of significant damages or royalties, or force us to stop selling or redesign one or more products. We cannot assure that the rights granted under our patents will provide us with any competitive advantage, that patents will be issued on any of our pending applications, or that future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as U.S. law protects these rights in the U.S. Some of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, and we may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for software and other intellectual property in the future. Failure to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses or rights from third parties on favorable terms could materially adversely impact us. Our use of “open source” software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. The products or technologies we acquire, license or develop may incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, and other open source licenses. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for 12 Table of Contents open source software that we use such that we have not triggered any of these conditions, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of these types of licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms on our business may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies, such as requirements that we offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or assurance of title or controls on the origin of the software. Our failure to attract and retain key employees may harm us. We depend on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, our research and development staff, and a number of other key management, sales, support, technical, and services personnel. Competition for experienced, high-quality personnel is intense, and we cannot assure that we can continue to recruit and retain such personnel. Our failure to hire and retain such personnel could impair our ability to develop new products and manage our business effectively. We have global sales and research and development offices in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. We have global sales and research and development offices, some of which are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. As a result, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Oregon law may have anti-takeover effects. The Oregon Control Share Act and the Business Combination Act limit the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over us. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of the Board of Directors. The provisions of the Oregon Control Share Act and the Business Combination Act could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control of us, could discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and could materially adversely impact the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. We have a substantial level of indebtedness. As of January 31, 2010, we had $236 million of outstanding indebtedness, which includes $32 million of Floating Rate Convertible Subordinated Debentures (Floating Rate Debentures) due 2023, $165 million of 6.25% Convertible Subordinated Debentures (6.25% Debentures) due 2026, and $38 million in short-term borrowings. This level of indebtedness among other things could: • Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt; • Make it difficult for us to incur additional indebtedness or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; • Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • Reduce funds available for use in our operations; • Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; • Make us more vulnerable in the event of an increase in interest rates if we must incur new debt to satisfy our obligations under the Floating Rate Debentures and 6.25% Debentures; and • Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. If we experience a decline in revenues, we could have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile, and your investment could lose value. All of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements, or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings, and market trends unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Our revolving credit facility has financial and non-financial covenants, and default of any covenant could materially adversely impact us. Our bank revolving credit facility imposes operating restrictions on us in the form of financial and non-financial covenants. Financial covenants include adjusted quick ratio, minimum tangible net worth, leverage ratio, senior leverage ratio, and minimum cash and accounts receivable ratio. If we were to fail to comply with the financial covenants and did not obtain a waiver from our lenders, we would be in default under the revolving credit facility and our lenders could terminate the facility and demand immediate repayment of all outstanding loans under the revolving credit facility. The declaration of an event of default could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We could also find it difficult to obtain other bank lines or credit facilities on comparable terms. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 