Item 1A. Risk Factors The forward-looking statements contained under “Outlook for Fiscal 2013” in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and all other statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation, statements containing the words “believes,” “expects,” “projections,” and words of similar meaning, constitute forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Moreover, from time to time, we may issue other forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements regarding financial performance in future periods, including the statements under “Outlook for Fiscal 2013,” do not reflect potential impacts of mergers or acquisitions or other significant transactions or events that have not been announced as of the time the statements are made. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect future events or revised expectations. Our business faces many risks, and set forth below are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. 7 Table of Contents Weakness in the United States (U.S.) and international economies may harm our business. Our revenue levels are generally dependent on the level of technology capital spending, which includes worldwide expenditures for electronic design automation (EDA) software, hardware, and consulting services. Periods of economic uncertainty, such as the recession experienced in 2008 and much of 2009, can adversely affect our customers and postpone decisions to license or purchase our products, decrease our customers’ spending, and jeopardize or delay our customers’ ability or willingness to make payment obligations, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate. Our revenues, particularly new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast revenues and trends in our business. Sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale, and the products or services to be sold. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the “conversion rate” of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. A variation in the conversion rate could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and materially adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. In particular, a slowdown in customer spending or weak economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in a particular quarter as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount, or cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter attempting to obtain more favorable terms. This may result in failure to agree to terms within the fiscal quarter and cause expected revenue to slip into a subsequent quarter. Our business could be impacted by fluctuations in quarterly results of operations due to customer seasonal purchasing patterns, the timing of significant orders, and the mix of licenses and products purchased by our customers. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, varied quarterly operating results. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results and some of these are not within our control, including customer demand and the timing of significant orders. We typically experience seasonality in demand for our products, due to the purchasing cycles of our customers, with revenues in the fourth quarter generally being the highest. If planned contract renewals are delayed or the average size of renewed contracts do not increase as we anticipate, we could fail to meet our and investors’ expectations, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. Our revenues are also affected by the mix of licenses entered into where we recognize software revenues as payments become due and payable, on a cash basis, or ratably over the license term as compared to revenues recognized at the beginning of the license term. We recognize revenues ratably over the license term, for instance, when the customer is provided with rights to unspecified or unreleased future products. A shift in the license mix toward increased ratable, due and payable, and/or cash-based revenue recognition could result in increased deferral of software revenues to future periods and would decrease current revenues, which could result in us not meeting near-term revenue expectations. The gross margin on our software is greater than that for our emulation hardware systems, software support, and professional services. As a result, our gross margin may vary as a result of the mix of products and services sold. We also have a significant amount of fixed or relatively fixed costs, such as employee costs and purchased technology amortization, and costs which are committed in advance and can only be adjusted periodically. As a result, a small failure to reach planned revenues would likely have a relatively large negative effect on resulting earnings. If anticipated revenues do not materialize as expected, our gross margins and operating results could be materially adversely impacted. We face intense price competition in the EDA industry. Price competition in the EDA industry is intense, which can lead to, among other things, price reductions, longer selling cycles, lower product margins, loss of market share, and additional working capital requirements. If our competitors offer significant discounts on certain products, we may need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce margins and could materially adversely impact our operating results. Any broad-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and service revenues to decline or be delayed as the sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle certain software products at low prices for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could significantly reduce demand for our products or limit prices we can charge. We currently compete primarily with two large companies: Synopsys, Inc. and Cadence Design Systems, Inc. We also compete with smaller companies and compete with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed their own EDA products internally. 8 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations may have an adverse impact on our operating results. We typically generate about half of our revenues from customers outside the U.S. and we generate approximately one-third of our expenses outside the U.S. While most of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, our international operating expenses are typically denominated in foreign currencies. Significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly in the Japanese yen, euro, and the British pound, could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. Our international operations subject us to risks in addition to those we face in our domestic operations, including longer receivables collection periods, changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade protection measures, local labor laws, import or export licensing requirements, anti-corruption and other similar laws, loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, limitations on repatriation of earnings, and difficulties with licensing and protecting our intellectual property rights. If we violate applicable laws related to our business, we could be subject to penalties, fines, or other sanctions and could be prohibited or limited from doing business in one or more countries. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the integrated circuit (IC) and electronics systems industries. Purchases of our products and services are highly dependent upon new design projects initiated by customers in the IC and electronics systems industries. These industries are highly cyclical and are subject to constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The increasing complexity of ICs and resulting increase in costs to design and manufacture ICs have in recent years led to fewer design starts, which could cause a reduced demand for our products. In addition, the IC and electronics systems industries regularly experience significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles within such companies or decline in general economic conditions. These downturns could cause diminished demand for our products and services. Customer payment defaults could adversely affect our timing of revenue recognition. We use fixed-term license agreements as standard business practices with customers we believe are creditworthy. These multi-year, multi-element term license agreements have payments spread over the license term and are typically about three years in length for semiconductor companies and about four years in length for military and aerospace companies. The complexity of these agreements tends to increase the risk associated with collectibility from customers that can arise for a variety of reasons including ability to pay, product dissatisfaction, and disputes. If we are unable to collect under these agreements, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We use these fixed-term license agreements as a standard business practice and have a history of successfully collecting under the original payment terms without making concessions on payments, products, or services. If we no longer had a history of collecting without providing concessions on the terms of the agreements, then revenue would be required to be recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as the payments become due and payable over the license term. This change could have a material adverse impact on our near-term results. IC and printed circuit board (PCB) technology evolves rapidly. The complexity of ICs and PCBs continues to rapidly increase. In response to this increasing complexity, new design tools and methodologies must be invented or acquired quickly to remain competitive. If we fail to quickly respond to new technological developments, our products could become obsolete or uncompetitive, which could materially adversely impact our business. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity and have unique specifications. Due to the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software, or the products or systems designed with or manufactured using tools that may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: • Loss of current customers and loss of, or delay in, revenue and loss of market share; • Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • Diversion of development resources to resolve the problems resulting from errors or defects; and • Increased support or service costs. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we include limited amounts of third-party technology in our products and we rely on those third parties to provide support services to us. Failure of those third parties to provide necessary support services could materially adversely impact our business. Long sales cycles and delay in customer completion of projects make the timing of our revenues difficult to predict. We have a lengthy sales cycle. A lengthy customer evaluation and approval process is generally required due to the complexity and expense associated with our products and services. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenues and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. Sales of our products and services are sometimes discretionary and may be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects due to budgetary constraints, internal acceptance review procedures, timing of budget cycles, or timing of competitive evaluation processes. Long sales cycles for our hardware products may subject us to risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess, or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation, and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Any loss of our leadership position in certain categories of the EDA market could harm our business. The industry in which we compete is characterized by very strong leadership positions in specific categories of the EDA market. For example, one company may have a large percentage of sales in the physical verification category of the market while another may have a similarly strong position in mixed-signal simulation. These strong leadership positions can be maintained for significant periods of time as the software is difficult to master and customers are disinclined to make changes once their employees, as well as others in the industry, have developed familiarity with a particular software product. For these reasons, much of our profitability arises from categories in which we are the leader. Conversely, it is difficult for us to achieve significant profits in categories where other companies are the leaders. If for any reason we lose our leadership position in a category, the loss could materially adversely impact our business. Accounting rules governing revenue recognition are complex and may change. The accounting rules governing software revenue recognition are complex and have been subject to authoritative interpretations that have generally made it more difficult to recognize software revenues at the beginning of the license period. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from relatively few product groups. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of relatively few product groups and related support services. As a result, any factor adversely affecting sales of these products, including the product release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, and economic and market conditions, could harm our operating results. We may experience difficulty in manufacturing our emulation hardware. We currently contract with a single manufacturer to assemble our hardware emulation products and purchase some components from a single supplier. As a result, we may be exposed to delays in production and delivery of our emulation products due to delays in receiving components or manufacturing constraints, low yields of ICs or printed circuit boards, or other delays in the manufacturing process. We may have additional tax liabilities. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Our tax expense may be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arm’s-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by the tax authorities. Also, our tax expense could be impacted depending on the applicability of withholding taxes on software licenses and related intercompany transactions in certain jurisdictions. In determining the adequacy of income taxes, we assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes that could result if our tax positions were challenged by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. The tax authorities in the U.S. and other countries where we do business regularly examine our income and other tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to operations that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Forecasting our income tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. The computation of income tax expense (benefit) is complex as it is based on the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions and requires significant judgment on the application of complicated rules governing accounting for tax provisions under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Income tax expense (benefit) for interim quarters is based on a forecast of our U.S. and non-U.S. effective tax rates for the year, which includes forward looking financial projections, including the expectations of profit and loss by jurisdiction, and contains numerous assumptions. Various items cannot be accurately forecasted and future events may be treated as discrete to the period in which they occur. Our income tax rate can be materially impacted, for example, by the geographical mix of our profits and losses, changes in our business, such as internal restructuring and acquisitions, changes in tax laws and accounting guidance, and other regulatory, legislative or judicial developments, tax audit determinations, changes in our uncertain tax positions, changes in our intent and capacity to permanently reinvest foreign earnings, changes to our transfer pricing practices, tax deductions attributed to equity compensation, and changes in our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. For these reasons, our overall global tax rate may be materially different than our forecast. There are limitations on the effectiveness of controls. We do not expect that disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially adversely impact us. We may not realize revenues as a result of our investments in research and development. We incur substantial expense to develop new software products. Research and development activities are often performed over long periods of time. These efforts may not result in a successful product offering because of changes in market conditions or our failure to successfully develop products based on that research and development activity. As a result, we could realize little or no revenues related to our investment in research and development. We may acquire other companies and may not successfully integrate them. The industry in which we compete has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. During this period, we have acquired numerous businesses and have frequently been in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, and we may acquire other businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze all potential transactions before committing to them, we cannot assure that any completed transaction will result in long-term benefits to us or our shareholders or that we will be able to manage the acquired businesses effectively. In addition, growth through acquisition involves a number of risks. If any of the following events occurs after we acquire another business, it could materially adversely impact us: • Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • The substantial diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business when integrating the acquired business; • The failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and increases in revenues; • The failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • Difficulties related to assimilating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering, and customer support areas; • Unanticipated costs; • Unanticipated liabilities or litigation in connection with or as a result of an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, or third parties; • Adverse impacts on existing relationships with suppliers and customers; and • Failure to understand and compete effectively in markets in which we have limited experience. Acquired businesses may not perform as projected, which could result in impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. Additional challenges include integration of sales channels, training and education of the sales force for new product 11 Table of Contents offerings, integration of product development efforts, integration of systems of internal controls, and integration of information systems. Accordingly, in any acquisition there will be uncertainty as to the achievement and timing of projected synergies, cost savings, and sales levels for acquired products. All of these factors could impair our ability to forecast, meet revenues and earnings targets, and manage effectively our business for long-term growth. We cannot assure that we can effectively meet these challenges. We may not adequately protect our proprietary rights or we may fail to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses. Our success depends, in large part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses, and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure that third parties will not try to challenge, invalidate, or circumvent these protections. The companies in the EDA industry, as well as entities and persons outside the industry, are obtaining patents at a rapid rate. We cannot predict if any of these patents will cover any of our products. In addition, many of these entities have substantially larger patent portfolios than we have. As a result, we may on occasion be forced to engage in costly patent litigation to protect our rights or defend our customers’ rights. We may also need to settle these claims on terms that are unfavorable; such settlements could result in the payment of significant damages or royalties, or force us to stop selling or redesign one or more products. We cannot assure that the rights granted under our patents will provide us with any competitive advantage, that patents will be issued on any of our pending applications, or that future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as U.S. law protects these rights in the U.S. Some of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, and we may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for software and other intellectual property in the future. Failure to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses or rights from third parties on favorable terms could materially adversely impact us. Our use of open source software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and may subject us to unanticipated obligations. The products, services or technologies we acquire, license, provide or develop may incorporate or use open source software. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid unintended consequences, such as reciprocal license grants, patent retaliation clauses, and the requirement to license our products at no cost. Nevertheless, we may be subject to unanticipated obligations regarding our products which incorporate open source software. Our failure to attract and retain key employees may harm us. We depend on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, our research and development staff, and a number of other key management, sales, support, technical, and services personnel. Competition for experienced, high-quality personnel is intense, and we cannot assure that we can continue to recruit and retain such personnel. Our failure to hire and retain such personnel could impair our ability to develop new products and manage our business effectively. We have global sales and research and development offices in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the U.S. We have global sales and research and development offices, some of which are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the U.S. In particular, our offices in Egypt and Pakistan may be subject to disruption or closure from time to time. As a result, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of potential unrest, terrorist acts, or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. If our IT security measures are breached, our information systems may be perceived as being insecure, which could harm our business and reputation. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information owned by us and our customers. We have sales and research and development offices throughout the world. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks or breached due to employee errors or other disruptions that could result in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information and could significantly interfere with our business operations. Breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, adverse publicity and litigation. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, if we select a vendor that uses cyber storage of information as part of their service or product offerings, despite our attempts to validate the security of such services, proprietary information may be 12 Table of Contents misappropriated by third parties. If there is an actual or perceived breach of our security, or the security of one of our vendors, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could suffer damage to our reputation or our business, or lose existing customers and lose our ability to obtain new customers. Oregon law and our shareholder rights plan may have anti-takeover effects. The Oregon Business Combination Act limits the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over us. This provision may have the effect of lengthening the time required to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of the Board of Directors. In December 2011, we extended the term of our shareholder rights plan, which has the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. The provisions of the Oregon Business Combination Act and our shareholder rights plan could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control of us, could discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and could materially adversely impact the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. Our revolving credit facility has financial and non-financial covenants, and default of any covenant could materially adversely impact us. Our bank revolving credit facility imposes operating restrictions on us in the form of financial and non-financial covenants. Financial covenants include adjusted quick ratio, tangible net worth, leverage ratio, senior leverage ratio, and minimum cash and accounts receivable ratio. If we were to fail to comply with the financial covenants and did not obtain a waiver from our lenders, we would be in default under the revolving credit facility and our lenders could terminate the facility and demand immediate repayment of all outstanding loans under the revolving credit facility. The declaration of an event of default could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We could also find it difficult to obtain other bank lines or credit facilities on comparable terms. We have a substantial level of indebtedness. As of January 31, 2012, we had $269 million of outstanding indebtedness, which includes $253 million of 4.00% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2031, $1 million in other notes payable, and $15 million in short-term borrowings. This level of indebtedness among other things could: • Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt; • Make it difficult for us to incur additional indebtedness or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; • Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • Reduce funds available for use in our operations; • Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; and • Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. We may also be unable to borrow funds as a result of an inability of financial institutions to lend due to restrictive lending policies and/or institutional liquidity concerns. If we experience a decline in revenues, we could have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our stock price could become more volatile, and your investment could lose value. All of the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements, or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings, and market trends unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders. Responding to actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees. The perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 