ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Company faces but only those identified by the Company, in accordance with the requirements of Item 503(c) of Regulation S-K, as being the most significant factors that make investment in the Company speculative or risky and that have special application to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems less significant than identified herein may also make investment in the Company speculative or risky. If any of the adverse events associated with the risks described below occurs, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline. The Company's Loss Reserves are Based on an Estimate of Its Future Liability, and if Actual Claims Prove to be Greater Than The Company's Reserves, Its Results of Operations and Financial Condition May Be Adversely Affected The Company maintains loss reserves to cover its estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees, and costs not associated with specific claims but related to the claims payment functions for reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, the Company cannot be sure that current reserves will prove adequate. If the Company's reserves are insufficient to cover its actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, the Company would have to augment its reserves and incur a charge to its earnings, and these charges could be material. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what the Company expects the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, a re based on the Company's assessment of facts and circumstances then known. Many factors could affect these reserves, including economic and social conditions, frequency and severity of claims, medical trend resulting from the influences of underlying cost inflation, changes in utilization and demand for medical services, and changes in doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to the Company. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. 17 The Company's Results May Fluctuate as a Result of Factors Generally Affecting the Insurance and Reinsurance Industry The results of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Factors that affect the industry in general could also cause the Company's results to fluctuate. The industry and the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be affected significantly by: · Fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital; · Rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; · Losses related to epidemics, terrorist activities, random acts of violence or declared or undeclared war; · Changes in reserves resulting from different types of claims that may arise and the development of judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liability; · The overall level of economic activity and the competitive environment in the industry; · Greater than expected use of healthcare services by members; · New mandated benefits or other regulatory changes that change the scope of business or increase the Company’s costs; and · Failure of MGUs to adhere to underwriting guidelines as required by the Company in its MGU agreements. The occurrence of any or a combination of these factors, which is beyond the Company’s control, could have a material adverse effect on its results. If the Rating Agencies Downgrade the Company's Insurance Companies, the Company's Results of Operations and Competitive Position in the Industry May Suffer Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Standard Security Life is rated "A" (Excellent) and Madison National Life is rated "A-" (Excellent) by A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("Best"). Best's ratings reflect its opinions of an insurance company's financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. The ratings of Standard Security Life and Madison National Life are subject to periodic review by Best. If Best reduces either or both Madison National Life's or Standard Security Life's ratings from its current levels, the Company's business would be adversely affected. Certain Proposed Federal and State Legislation May, if Adopted, Adversely Affect the Company's Business In the continuing debate over health-care reform, certain federal and state legislation has been proposed that could have the effect of fundamentally altering the dynamics of the industry in which the Company competes, including imposing mandatory universal health-care coverage, or otherwise resulting in a much larger role for government in the provision of health care. IHC cannot predict which, if any, of such broad-based proposals will be enacted into law and what the effect would be (either positive or negative) on the Company’s business and results of operations. Additionally, less-fundamental change in the regulatory requirements imposed on the Company may harm its business or results of operations. For example, some states have imposed new time limits for the payment of uncontested covered claims and required health-care and dental service plans to pay 18 interest on uncontested claims not paid promptly within the required time period. Some states have also granted their insurance regulatory agencies additional authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on health and dental plans engaging in certain unfair payment practices. If the Company were unable, for any reason, to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to the Company and could materially adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The Company's Inability to Assess Underwriting Risk Accurately Could Reduce Its Net Income The Company's success is dependent on its ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses on which the risk is retained. If the Company fails to assess accurately the risks it retains, the Company may fail to establish the appropriate premium rates and the Company's reserves may be inadequate to cover its losses, requiring augmentation of the reserves, which in turn would reduce the Company's net income. The Company’s agreements with its producers (including its MGUs) require that the producer follow underwriting guidelines published by the Company and amended from time to time. Failure to follow these guidelines may result in termination or modification of the agreement. The Company performs periodic audits to confirm adherence to the guidelines, but it is possible that the Company would not detect a breach in the guidelines for some time after the infraction which could result in a material impact on the Net Loss Ratio for that producer and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results. Decreases in the Fair Market Value of Fixed Maturities May Greatly Reduce the Value of the Company's Investment Portfolio, and as a Result, the Company's Financial Condition May Suffer At December 31, 2006, fixed maturities represented $665.3 million or 77.4% of the Company's total investments of $859.2 million. The fair market value of fixed maturities and the related investment income fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by the Company will generally increase or decrease in line with changes in market interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. The impact of market value fluctuations affects the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. Because all of the Company's fixed maturities are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair market value of the Company's securities are reflected in the Company's stockholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income or loss). No similar adjustment is made for liabilities to reflect a change in interest rates. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations and economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's stockholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or cash flows. If the Company Fails to Comply With Extensive State and Federal Regulations, the Company Will Be Subject to Penalties, Which May Include Fines and Suspension and Which May Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition 19 The Company is subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which the Company does business, relates to, among other things: · Approval of policy forms and premium rates; · Standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; · Licensing of insurers and their agents; · Restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · Restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; · Restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; · Requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; · Requiring certain methods of accounting; · Prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and · Requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. The Insurance Group's business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and its ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for its operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, the Insurance Group follows practices based on its interpretations of regulations, or those that it believes to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If the Insurance Group does not have the requisite licenses and approvals and does not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend the Insurance Group from carrying on some or all of its activities or otherwise p enalize it. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on the Insurance Group's business. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on the Insurance Group's business. The Company May Be Unsuccessful in Competing Against Larger or Better-Established Business Rivals The Company competes with a large number of other companies in its selected lines of business. The Company faces competition from specialty insurance companies, HMOs as well as from diversified financial services companies and insurance companies that are larger than the Company and that have greater financial, marketing and other resources. Some of these competitors also have longer experience and more market recognition than the Company does in certain lines of business. In addition to competition in the operation of its business, the Company faces competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will maintain its current competitive position in the markets in which it operates, or that it will be able to expand operations into new markets. If the Company fails to do so, its results of operations and cash flows could be materi ally adversely affected. The Company May Not Find Suitable Acquisition Candidates or New Insurance Ventures, and May Not Successfully Integrate any Such Acquired Company or Successfully Invest in such Ventures 20 From time to time, the Company evaluates possible acquisition transactions and the start-up of complementary businesses, and at any given time, it may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions and new ventures. While the Company’s business model is not dependent upon acquisitions or new insurance ventures, the time-frame for achieving or further improving upon its desired market positions can be significantly shortened through opportune acquisitions or new insurance ventures. Historically, acquisitions and new insurance ventures have played a significant role in achieving desired market positions in some, but not all, of the Company’s businesses. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to identify suitable acquisition transactions or insurance ventures, that such transactions will be financed and completed on acceptable terms, or that future acquisitions or ventures will be successful. The process of integrating any acquired company or investing in new ventures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, implementation of an acquisition strategy entails a number of risks, including among other things: inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; an increase in indebtedness; and a limitation in the Company's ability to access additional capital when needed. A failure to adequately address these acquisition risks could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 