Risk factors’ in RBSG's Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010. The Group relies on the RBS Group The Group is part of the RBS Group and receives capital from the RBS Group. The Group also receives certain services from the RBS Group and has access to the infrastructure of the RBS Group which the Group requires in order to operate its business. The reduction or cessation of the ability of the RBS Group to provide intra-group funding, capital injections or other support directly or indirectly to the Group may result in funding or capital pressures and liquidity stress for the Group and may have a material adverse effect on the operations, financial condition and results of operations of the Group. RBSG and its UK bank subsidiaries, including the Bank and its UK bank subsidiaries, may face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act 2009. Under the Banking Act 2009 (the “Banking Act”), substantial powers have been granted to HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the FSA (together, the “Authorities”) as part of a special resolution regime (the “SRR”). These powers enable the Authorities to deal with UK banks, building societies and other institutions. with permission to accept deposits pursuant to Part IV of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”) (each, a “relevant entity”) where the conditions set out in the next paragraph headed “The SRR may be triggered prior to the insolvency of RBSG or its UK bank subsidiaries, which may include the Bank and its UK bank subsidiaries” are met. The SRR consists of three stabilisation options and two insolvency and administration procedures applicable to UK banks which may be commenced by the Authorities. The stabilisation options provide for: (i) transfer of all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a private sector purchaser; (ii) transfer of all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a “bridge bank” established by the Bank of England; and (iii) temporary public ownership (nationalisation) of the relevant entity or its UK-incorporated holding company. In each case, the Authorities have been granted wide powers under the Banking Act including powers to modify contractual arrangements in certain circumstances and powers for HM Treasury to disapply or modify laws (with possible retrospective effect) to enable the powers under the Banking Act to be used effectively. The following paragraphs of this risk factor headed “RBSG and its UK bank subsidiaries, including the Bank and its UK bank subsidiaries, may face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act 2009” set out some of the possible consequences of the exercise of those powers under the SRR. The SRR may be triggered prior to the insolvency of RBSG or its UK bank subsidiaries, which may include the Bank and its UK bank subsidiaries. The purpose of the stabilisation options is to address the situation where all or part of the business of a relevant entity has encountered, or is likely to encounter, financial difficulties. Accordingly, the stabilisation options may only be exercised if (a) the FSA is satisfied that a relevant entity such as RBSG’s UK banking subsidiaries, including the Bank, is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the threshold conditions within the meaning of section 41(1) of the FSMA (which are the conditions that a relevant entity must satisfy in order to retain its authorisation to perform regulated activities), (b) following consultation with the other Authorities, the FSA determines that it is not reasonably likely that (ignoring the stabilisation options) action will be taken that will enable the relevant entity to satisfy those threshold conditions, and (c) the Authorities consider the exercise of the stabilisation options to be necessary, having regard to certain public interest considerations (such as the stability of the UK financial systems, public confidence in the UK banking systems and the protection of depositors). It is therefore possible that one of the stabilisation options could be exercised prior to the point at which any insolvency proceedings with respect to the relevant entity (such as the Bank) or RBSG could be initiated. The stabilisation options may be exercised by means of powers to transfer property, rights or liabilities of a relevant entity and shares and other securities issued by a relevant entity. HM Treasury may also take the parent company (such as RBSG or the Bank) of a relevant entity into temporary public ownership provided that certain conditions are met. Temporary public ownership is effected by way of a share transfer order and can be actioned irrespective of the financial condition of the parent company. 5 Various actions may be taken in relation to any securities issued by the Bank without the consent of the holders thereof. If stabilisation options are exercised in respect of the Bank, HM Treasury or the Bank of England may exercise extensive share transfer powers (applying to a wide range of securities) and property transfer powers (including powers for partial transfers of property rights and liabilities) in relation to the Bank. Exercise of these powers could involve taking various actions in relation to any securities issued by the Bank (the “Securities”) without the consent of holders of the Securities, including (among other things): (i) transferring the Securities free from any contractual, legislative orother restrictions on transfer; (ii) transferring the Securities free from any trust, liability or otherencumbrance; (iii) extinguishing any rights to acquire Securities; (iv) delisting the Securities; (v) converting the Securities into another form or class (the scope ofwhich power is unclear, although may include, for example, conversion of the Securities into equity securities); (vi) disapplying any termination or acceleration rights or events of default under the terms of theSecurities which would be triggered by the transfer or certain related events; or (vii) where property is held on trust, removing or altering the terms of such trust. Where HM Treasury has made a share transfer order in respect of securities issued by the holding company of a relevant entity, HM Treasury may make an order providing for the property, rights or liabilities of the holding company or of any relevant entity in the holding company group to be transferred and where such property is held on trust, removing or altering the terms of such trust. The taking of any such actions may adversely affect the rights of holders of the Securities, the price or value of their investment in the Securities and/or the ability of the Bank to satisfy its obligations under the Securities and/or contracts related to the Securities. Where the transfer powers are effected, HM Treasury is required to make certain compensation or resolution fund orders and holders of Securities may have a claim for compensation under one of the compensation schemes contemplated by the Banking Act if any action is taken in respect of the Securities (and if the relevant order provides for the amount of compensation payable to be determined by an independent valuer, then for the purposes of determining an amount of compensation, the independent valuer must disregard actual or potential financial assistance provided by the Bank of England or HM Treasury). However, there can be no assurance that compensation would be assessed to be payable or that holders of the Securities would recover any compensation promptly and/or equal to any loss actually incurred. Contractual arrangements between the Group and other companies within the RBS Group and/or the bridge bank or private sector purchaser may be created, modified or cancelled. If any member of the RBS Group were taken into temporary public ownership and a partial transfer of its or any relevant entity’s business were effected, or if a relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its business to another entity were effected, the transfer may directly affect the Bank or its subsidiaries by creating, modifying or cancelling its or their contractual arrangements with a view to ensuring the provision of such services and facilities as are required to enable the bridge bank or private sector purchaser to operate the transferred business (or any part of it) effectively. For example, the transfer may (among other things) (i) require the Bank or its subsidiaries to support and co-operate with the bridge bank or private sector purchaser; (ii) cancel or modify contracts or arrangements between RBSG or the transferred business and the Bank or its subsidiaries or (iii) impose additional obligations on the Bank or its subsidiaries under new or existing contracts. There can be no assurance that the taking of any such actions would not adversely affect the ability of the Bank to satisfy its obligations under the issued Securities or related contracts. A partial transfer of the business of the RBS Group, including the Bank, may result in a deterioration of the Group’s creditworthiness. If RBSG, the Royal Bank or the Group were taken into temporary public ownership and a partial transfer of its or any relevant entity’s business were effected, or if a relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its business to another entity was effected, the nature and mix of the assets and liabilities not transferred may adversely affect the financial condition of RBSG, the Royal Bank or the Group and increase the risk that any of them may eventually become subject to administration or insolvency proceedings pursuant to the Banking Act. In such circumstances, holders of Securities may have a claim for compensation under one of the compensation schemes contemplated by the Banking Act, but there can be no assurance that compensation would be assessed to be payable or that such holders would recover any compensation promptly and/or equal to any loss actually incurred. 6 While the main provisions of the Banking (Special Provisions) Act 2008 were in force, which conferred certain transfer powers on HM Treasury, the UK Government took action under that Act in respect of a number of UK financial institutions, including, in extreme circumstances, full and partial nationalisation. There have been concerns in the market in recent years regarding the risks of such nationalisation in relation to the RBS Group and other UK banks. If economic conditions in the UK or globally were to deteriorate, or the events described in the following risk factors were to occur to such an extent that they had a materially adverse impact on the financial condition, perceived or actual credit quality, results of operations or business of any of the relevant entities in the RBS Group, the UK Government may decide to take similar action in relation to the Bank under the Banking Act. Given the extent of the Authorities’ powers under the Banking Act, it is difficult to predict the effect that such actions might have on the Group and any securities issued by the Bank or its subsidiaries. However, potential impacts may include full nationalisation of the RBS Group including the Bank, the total loss of value in Securities issued by the Bank and the inability of the Bank to perform its obligations under the Securities. If a relevant stabilisation option were effected in respect of RBSG or the stabilisation options were effected in respect of a relevant entity (such as the Bank) or its business within the RBS Group, HM Treasury would be required to make certain compensation or resolution fund orders, which would depend on the stabilisation power adopted. For example, in the event that the Bank of England were to transfer some of the business of a relevant entity to a bridge bank, HM Treasury would have to make a resolution fund order including a third party compensation order pursuant to the Banking Act (Third Party Compensation Arrangements for Partial Property Transfers) Regulations 2009. However, there can be no assurance that compensation would be assessed to be payable or that holders of the Securities would recover any compensation promptly and/or equal to any loss actually incurred. The Group’s businesses, earnings and financial condition have been and will continue to be affected by the global economy and instability in the global financial markets. The performance of the Group has been and will continue to be influenced by the economic conditions of the countries in which it operates, particularly the UK, the US and the Republic of Ireland. The outlook for these economies over the near to medium term remains challenging. In addition, the global financial system has yet to fully overcome the difficulties which first manifested themselves in August 2007 and financial markets conditions have not yet fully normalised. These conditions led to severe dislocation of financial markets around the world and unprecedented levels of illiquidity in 2008 and 2009, resulting in the development of significant problems at a number of the world’s largest corporate institutions operating across a wide range of industry sectors, many of which are the Group’s customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of its business. In response to this economic instability and market illiquidity, a number of governments, including the UK Government, the governments of the other EU member states and the US Government intervened in order to inject liquidity and capital into the financial system, and in some cases, to prevent the failure of these institutions. Despite such measures, the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets have continued, with many forecasts predicting only modest levels of GDP growth in the near to medium term. Similar conditions are likely to exist in a number of the Group’s key markets, including those in the US and the Republic of Ireland. These conditions have exerted, and may continue to exert, downward pressure on asset prices and on availability of credit for financial institutions including the Bank and upward pressure on the cost of credit for financial institutions and will continue to impact the credit quality of the Group’s customers and counterparties. Such conditions, alone or in combination with regulatory changes or actions of other market participants, may cause the Group to incur losses or to experience further reductions in business activity, increased funding costs and funding pressures, decreased asset values, additional write-downs and impairment charges and lower profitability. In particular, the performance of the Group may be affected by economic conditions impacting EU member states. For example, the financial problems recently experienced by the governments of certain EU member states (including Greece and Ireland) may lead to the issuance of significant volumes of debt by such member states and European Union entities, which may in turn reduce demand for debt issued by financial institutions and corporate borrowers. This, as well as credit rating downgrades experienced by such member states, could adversely affect the Group’s access to the debt capital markets and may increase the Group’s funding costs, which could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s earnings, cash flow and financial condition. In addition, EU member states in which the Group operates have agreed to provide financial assistance to certain member states, currently Greece and Ireland, and may be required to provide financial assistance to other EU member states in the future, which may in turn have a negative impact on the financial condition of those EU member states providing the assistance. The Group’s exposure to the economies of such member states, in particular Ireland, has resulted in the Group making significant provisions. Should the adverse economic conditions currently faced by such member states be replicated in other EU member states, the risks discussed above would be exacerbated. The Group is currently exposed to country concentration risk in the US, the UK and the Republic of Ireland and certain business sector concentration risk relating to personal and property exposures. The Group’s performance may also be affected by future recovery rates on assets and the historical assumptions underlying asset recovery rates, which (as has already occurred in certain instances) may no longer be accurate given the unprecedented market disruption and general economic instability. The precise nature of all the risks and uncertainties the Group faces as a result of current economic conditions cannot be predicted and many of these risks are outside the control of the Group. 7 The RBS Group, including the Group, is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the State Aid restructuring plan and is prohibited from making discretionary dividend or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments (including preference shares and B shares) which may impair the RBS Group’s ability to raise new Tier 1 capital. The RBS Group was required to obtain State Aid approval for the aid given to it by HM Treasury as part of the placing and open offer undertaken by RBSG in December 2008, the issuance of £25.5 billion of B shares by RBSG, a contingent commitment by HM Treasury to subscribe for up to an additional £8 billion of B shares and RBS Group’s participation in the APS (the “State Aid”). In that context, as part of the terms of the State Aid approval, the RBS Group, together with HM Treasury, agreed the terms of a restructuring plan (the “State Aid restructuring plan”). As part of the State Aid restructuring plan, there is a prohibition on the making of discretionary dividend or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments for a two-year period which commenced on 30 April 2010. These restrictions will prevent RBSG and other RBS Group companies (other than companies in the RBS Holdings N.V. group, which are subject to different restrictions) from paying discretionary dividends on their preference shares and discretionary coupons on other Tier 1 securities, and RBSG from paying dividends on its ordinary shares, for the same duration, and it may impair the RBS Group’s ability to raise new capital through the issuance of ordinary shares and other securities issued by RBSG and hence to provide capital to the Bank. The RBS Group agreed to undertake a series of measures to be implemented over a four-year period from December 2009; which include disposing of RBS Insurance, the RBS Group’s insurance division (subject to potentially maintaining a minority interest until the end of 2014). RBSG also agreed to divest its global card payment services business, Global Merchant Services (“GMS”), by the end of 2013, subject to the RBS Group retaining up to 20 per cent of GMS if required by the purchaser and, its interest in RBS Sempra Commodities LLP (“RBS Sempra Commodities”), the RBS Group’s joint venture with Sempra Energy and a leading global commodities trader and the Royal Bank branch based business in England and Wales and the Banks’ branches in Scotland, along with the Direct small and medium-size enterprise (SME) customers and certain mid-corporate customers across the UK. The RBS Group has progressed with certain of these disposals over the course of 2010, including reaching an agreement to sell the Group’s branch network in Scotland. There is no assurance that the price that the Group receives or has received for any assets sold pursuant to the State Aid restructuring plan will be at a level the Group considers adequate or which it could obtain in circumstances in which the Group was not required to sell such assets in order to implement the State Aid restructuring plan or if such sale were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms thereof. Further, if the Group fails to complete any of the required disposals within the agreed timeframes for such disposals, under the terms of the State Aid approval, a divestiture trustee may be empowered to conduct the disposals, with the mandate to complete the disposal at no minimum price. Furthermore, if the RBS Group is unable to comply with the terms of the State Aid approval, it could constitute a misuse of aid. In circumstances where the European Commission doubts that the RBS Group is complying with the terms of the State Aid approval, it may open a formal investigation. At the conclusion of any such investigation, if the European Commission decided that there had been misuse of aid, it could issue a decision requiring HM Treasury to recover the misused aid which could have a material adverse impact on the RBS Group, including the Bank and its subsidiaries. In implementing the State Aid restructuring plan, the Bank and its subsidiaries will lose existing customers, deposits and other assets (both directly through the sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the RBS Group’s business arising from implementing the State Aid restructuring plan) and the potential for realising additional associated revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such disposals. Further, the loss of such revenues and related income may extend the time period over which the RBS Group may pay any amounts owed to HM Treasury under the APS or otherwise, which may negatively impact the Group’s business. The implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan by the RBS Group may also result in disruption to the Group’s retained business and give rise to significant strain on management, employee, operational and financial resources, impacting customers and employees and giving rise to separation costs which could be substantial. The implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan by the RBS Group may result in the emergence of one or more new viable competitors or a material strengthening of one or more of the Group’s existing competitors in the Group’s markets. The effect of this on the Group’s future competitive position, revenues and margins is uncertain and there could be an adverse effect on the Group’s operations and financial condition and its business generally. If any or all of the risks described above, or any other currently unforeseen risks, materialise, there could be a materially adverse impact on the Group’s business, operations, financial condition, capital position and competitive position. 8 The Group’s ability to implement the RBS Group’s strategic plan depends on the success of the Group’s refocus on its core strengths and its balance sheet reduction programme. In light of the changed global economic outlook, the RBS Group is engaged in a financial and core business restructuring which is focused on achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, reducing reliance on wholesale funding and lowering exposure to capital intensive businesses. A key part of this restructuring is the programme announced in February 2009 to run-down and sell the non-core assets and businesses of the RBS Group (including the Bank and its subsidiaries) and the continued review of the RBS Group’s portfolio to identify further disposals of certain non-core assets and businesses. Assets identified for this purpose and allocated to the RBS Group's Non-Core division totalled £252 billion, excluding derivatives, as at 31 December 2008. At 31 December 2010, this total had reduced to £137.9 billion, excluding derivatives, largely as a result of the progress made in business disposals and portfolio sales during the course of 2010. This balance sheet reduction programme continues alongside the disposals under the State Aid restructuring plan approved by the European Commission. Because the ability to dispose of assets and the price achieved for such disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market conditions, which may remain challenging, there is no assurance that RBSG or the Group will be able to sell or run-down (as applicable) those remaining businesses it is seeking to exit either on favourable economic terms to RBSG or the Group or at all. Tax liabilities could arise on the disposal of assets. Furthermore, where transactions are entered into for the purpose of selling non-core assets and businesses, they may be subject to conditions precedent, including government and regulatory approvals and completion mechanics that in certain cases may entail consent from customers. There is no assurance that such conditions precedent will be satisfied, or consents and approvals obtained, in a timely manner or at all. There is consequently a risk that RBSG and the Group may fail to complete such disposals by any agreed longstop date. In addition, RBSG and the Group may be liable for any deterioration in businesses being sold between the announcement of the disposal and its completion. In certain cases, the period between the announcement of a transaction and its completion may be lengthy and may span many months. Other risks that may arise out of the disposal of assets of RBSG and the Group include ongoing liabilities up to completion of the relevant transaction in respect of the assets and businesses disposed of, commercial and other risks associated with meeting covenants to the buyer during the period up to completion, the risk of employee and customer attrition in the period up to completion, substantive indemnity obligations in favour of the buyer, the risk of liability for breach of warranty, the need to continue to provide transitional service arrangements for potentially lengthy periods following completion of the relevant transaction to the businesses being transferred and redundancy and other transaction costs. Further, RBSG and/or the Group may be required to enter into covenants agreeing not to compete in certain markets for specific periods of time. In addition, as noted above in the context of the State Aid restructuring plan and in the context of other disposals, the RBS Group, including the Group, will lose existing customers, deposits and other assets (both directly through the sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the RBS Group’s business arising from implementing the restructuring plans) and the potential for realising additional associated revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such disposals. Any of the above factors could negatively affect the RBS Group's ability to implement its strategic plan and have a material adverse effect on RBSG’s and/or the Group's business, results of operations, financial condition, capital ratios and liquidity and could result in a loss of value in the Securities. Lack of liquidity is a risk to the Group’s business and its ability to access sources of liquidity has been, and will continue to be, constrained. Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due. This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise specific factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of wholesale funding (including, for example, short-term and overnight funding), changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters. During recent years, credit markets worldwide have experienced a severe reduction in liquidity and term-funding. During this time, the market perception of bank credit risk has changed significantly and banks that are deemed by the market to be riskier have issued debt at a premium to the cost of debt for banks that are perceived by the market as being safer. The uncertainty regarding the perception of credit risk across different banking groups also led to reductions in inter-bank lending, and hence, in common with many other banking groups, the Group’s access to traditional sources of liquidity has been, and may again be, restricted. In addition, in common with other banking groups, the Group has experienced pressures to increase the average maturity of its wholesale funding. An increase in the maturity of wholesale funding has the effect of increasing the Group’s overall cost of funding. The RBS Group’s liquidity management (which applies to the Group) focuses on maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its assets, controlling the mismatch of maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and contingent liabilities. However, the ability of the RBS Group (including the Group) to access sources of liquidity (for example, through the issue or sale of financial and other instruments or through the use of term loans) during recent periods of liquidity stress has been constrained to the point where it, in common with many other banking groups, has had to rely on shorter term and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall liquidity. While money market conditions improved during the course of 2009 and 2010, further tightening of credit markets could have a materially adverse impact on the Group. The Group, in common with other banking groups, may need to seek funds from alternative sources and potentially at higher costs than has previously been the case. In addition, there is also a risk that corporate and financial institution counterparties with credit exposures may seek to reduce their credit exposures to banks, given current risk aversion trends. It is possible that credit market dislocation becomes so severe that overnight funding from non-government sources ceases to be available. 9 Like many banking groups, the Group relies on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of its funding. Furthermore, as part of its ongoing strategy to improve its liquidity position, the Group is actively seeking to increase the proportion of its funding represented by customer deposits. However, such deposits are subject to fluctuation due to certain factors outside the Group’s control, such as a loss of confidence, increasing competitive pressures for customer deposits or the encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or central bank depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of deposits within a short period of time. There is currently heavy competition among UK banks for customer deposits, which has increased the cost of procuring new deposits and impacted the Group’s ability to grow its deposit base. An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the Group’s deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other factors described above, have a materially adverse impact on the Group’s ability to satisfy its liquidity needs unless corresponding actions were taken to improve the liquidity profile of other deposits or to reduce assets. Significant progress was made during the course of 2010 in reducing non-core asset levels. While the liquidity position of the RBS Group may be materially adversely impacted if it is unable to achieve the run-off and sale of non-core and other assets and businesses as expected, the magnitude of this risk reduced during the course of 2010. Any significant delay in the plans of the RBS Group may nevertheless require the Group to consider disposals of other assets not previously identified for disposal to achieve the funded balance sheet target level. There can be no assurance that the measures described above, alongside other available measures, will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity in the markets in which the Group operates, or that these measures, combined with any increased cost of any funding currently available in the market, will not lead to a further increase in the Group’s overall cost of funding or require the Group to consider disposals of other assets not previously identified for disposal to reduce its funding requirements, each of which could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The financial performance of the Group has been materially affected by deteriorations in borrower credit quality and it may continue to be impacted by any further deteriorations, including as a result of prevailing economic and market conditions, and legal and regulatory developments. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the Group’s businesses. Whilst some economies stabilised over the course of the last two years, the Group may continue to see adverse changes in the credit quality of its borrowers and counterparties, for example as a result of their inability to refinance their debts, with increasing delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors (such as the personal and property sectors) and in a number of geographies (principally the UK, the US and Republic of Ireland). The credit quality of the Group’s borrowers and counterparties is impacted by prevailing economic and market conditions, as well as by the legal and regulatory landscape in their respective markets, and if there is a further deterioration in economic and market conditions in one or more markets in which the Group operates or there are changes to the legal or regulatory landscapes in such markets, this could worsen the credit quality of the Group’s borrowers and counterparties and also impact the Group's ability to enforce contractual security rights. In the United States during the last year a number of other financial institutions have experienced increased repurchase demands in respect of US mortgage loans or other related securities originated and sold. However, the Group has not experienced a significant volume of repurchase demands in respect of similar loans or related securities it originated or sold. The trends and risks affecting borrower credit quality have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to experience increased repurchase demands, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for the Group, and may result in a loss of value in the Securities. The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the Group’s counterparties has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the Group. The Group’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions has been and will continue to be adversely affected by the actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of its counterparties, including other financial institutions and corporate borrowers. The Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even the perceived creditworthiness of or concerns about, one or more corporate borrowers, financial institutions, sovereign counterparties or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses and defaults and could lead to further losses being incurred by the Group or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Group to credit risk in the event of default of the Group’s counterparty or client and the Group does have significant exposures to certain individual counterparties (including counterparties in certain weakened sectors and geographic markets, particularly the United Kingdom, United States and Europe). In addition, the Group’s credit risk is exacerbated when the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced in recent years. Any such losses could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. 10 The Group’s earnings and financial condition have been, and its future earnings and financial condition may continue to be, materially affected by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions. Financial markets continue to be subject to significant stress conditions, where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values have been accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified by recent events affecting asset-backed collateralised debt obligations, residential mortgage-backed securities and the leveraged loan market. In dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management strategies have proven not to be as effective as they are in normal market conditions due in part to the decreasing credit quality of hedge counterparties, including monoline and other insurance companies and credit derivative product companies. Severe market events have resulted in the Group recording large write-downs on its credit market exposures in recent years. Any deterioration in economic and financial market conditions could lead to further impairment charges and write-downs. Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity (and the assumptions, judgements and estimates in relation to such matters that may change over time and may ultimately not turn out to be accurate) make it difficult to value certain of the Group’s exposures. Valuations in future periods, reflecting, among other things, then-prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit ratings of certain of the Group’s assets, may result in significant changes in the fair values of the Group’s exposures, even in respect of exposures, such as credit market exposures, for which the Group has previously recorded write-downs. In addition, the value ultimately realised by the Group may be materially different from the current or estimated fair value. Any of these factors could require the Group to recognise further significant write-downs in addition to those already recorded or realised or realise increased impairment charges, which may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and its results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, equity and commodity prices, basis, volatility and correlation risks and other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect the Group’s business and results of operations. Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity price and basis, volatility and correlation risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity stress, such as those experienced in recent years. Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the Bank’s non-UK subsidiaries (principally RBS Securities Inc. and Ulster Bank’s Republic of Ireland businesses). The Bank prepares its consolidated financial statements in sterling. Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate other currencies into sterling affect the Bank’s reported consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from year to year and those of the Group’s operations whose functional currency is not sterling. The performance of financial markets may affect bond, equity and commodity prices and, therefore, cause changes in the value of the Group’s investment and trading portfolios. This has been the case during the period since August 2007, with market disruptions and volatility resulting in significant variations in the value of such portfolios. As part of its ongoing derivatives operations, the Group also faces significant basis, volatility and correlation risks for which materialisation is highly dependent on relative changes in the first order risks referred to above. While the Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Group’s financial performance and business operations. The Group’s borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital markets and its liquidity depend significantly on RBSG’s and its and the UK Government’s credit ratings. The Bank and its principal subsidiaries have been subject to a number of credit rating downgrades in the recent past. Any future reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank, the Bank or one of its principal subsidiaries would further increase its borrowing costs, require the Group to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer deposits, and may also limit the Group’s access to capital and money markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivatives contracts and other secured funding arrangements. Furthermore, given the extent of the UK Government ownership of the RBS Group and the support provided to it through HM Treasury’s Credit Guarantee Scheme, any downgrade in the UK Government’s credit ratings could materially adversely affect the credit ratings of the RBS Group, the Bank and other Group companies and may have the effects noted above. Standard & Poor’s Credit Market Services Europe Limited reaffirmed the UK Government’s “AAA” rating with stable outlook on 26 October 2010 and Moody’s Investors Service Limited reaffirmed the UK Government’s “Aaa” rating on 7 May 2010. Fitch Ratings Limited reaffirmed the UK Government’s “AAA” rating with stable outlook on 31 July 2009 and Moody’s Investors Service Limited reiterated the UK Government’s stable outlook on 23 June 2010. In addition to the RBSG credit ratings, the credit rating of Ulster Bank is important to the Group when competing in certain markets, such as over-the-counter derivatives. As a result, any further reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank, the Bank or its principal subsidiaries could adversely affect the Group’s access to liquidity and competitive position, increase its funding costs and have a material adverse impact on the Group’s earnings, cash flow and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. 11 The Group’s business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. Effective management of the Group’s capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy of returning to standalone strength. The Group is required by regulators in the UK, the US and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities, to maintain adequate capital resources. The maintenance of adequate capital is also necessary for the Group’s financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy. The FSA’s liquidity policy statement issued in October 2009 states that UK regulated firms must hold sufficient eligible securities to survive a liquidity stress and that liquidity policy statement, together with the developments described below, has resulted in the Group holding a greater amount of government securities to ensure that it has adequate liquidity in times of financial stress. On 17 December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) proposed a number of fundamental reforms to the regulatory capital framework in its consultative document entitled "Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector". On 12 September 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, announced further details of the proposed substantial strengthening of existing capital requirements, and the reforms were endorsed by the G-20 leaders after the G-20 Summit in Seoul in November 2010. On 16 December 2010, the Basel Committee published the Basel III rules in documents entitled “Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems” (containing the reforms relating to capital) and “Basel III: International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring” (containing the reforms relating to liquidity). The Basel Committee's package of reforms includes increasing the minimum common equity requirement from 2 per cent (before the application of regulatory adjustments) to 4.5 per cent (after the application of stricter regulatory adjustments). The total Tier 1 capital requirement, which includes common equity and other qualifying financial instruments, will increase from 4 per cent to 6 per cent. The total capital requirement (which comprises Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital) remains at 8 per cent. In addition, banks will be required to maintain, in the form of common equity (after the application of deductions), a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 per cent to withstand future periods of stress, bringing the total common equity requirements to 7 per cent. If there is excess credit growth in any given country resulting in a system-wide build up of risk, a countercyclical buffer within a range of 0 per cent to 2.5 per cent of common equity (or possibly other fully loss absorbing capital) is to be applied as an extension of the conservation buffer. In addition, a leverage ratio will be introduced, together with a liquidity coverage ratio and a net stable funding ratio. The liquidity coverage ratio is intended to promote resilience to potential liquidity stress scenarios lasting for a 30-day period. The net stable funding ratio is intended to limit over reliance on short-term wholesale funding and has been developed to provide a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities. The Basel Committee is conducting further work on systemically important financial institutions and contingent capital in close coordination with the Financial Stability Board. The Basel Committee has stated that measures may include capital surcharges, contingent capital and bail-in debt (which could be introduced by statute, possibly impacting existing as well as future issues of debt and exposing them to the risk of conversion into equity and/or write-down of principal amount). Such measures would be in addition to proposals for the write-off of Tier 1 and Tier 2 debt (and its possible conversion into ordinary shares) if a bank becomes non-viable. The Basel Committee is expected to complete by early to mid 2011 a methodology for identifying global systemically important financial institutions with a view to the Financial Stability Board and national authorities determining by mid-2011 those institutions to which the recommendations for global systemically important financial institutions will initially apply. In addition, by mid-2011, the Basel Committee is to complete a study of how much additional loss absorbency capacity global systemically important financial institutions should have and how much of such capacity could be provided by the various proposed instruments (which include contingent capital securities and bail-in debt). The implementation of the Basel III reforms will begin on 1 January 2013. The requirements, however, are subject to a series of transitional arrangements and will be phased in over a period of time, to be fully effective by 2019. The Basel Committee changes and other future changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements in the UK and in other jurisdictions in which it operates, including the European Commission’s public consultation on further possible changes to the Capital Requirements Directive launched in February 2010, may require the RBS Group to raise additional Tier 1 (including Core Tier 1) and Tier 2 capital by way of further issuances of securities, including in the form of ordinary shares, and will result in existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities issued by the RBS Group ceasing to count towards the Group’s regulatory capital, either at the same level as present or at all. If the RBS Group or the Bank is unable to raise the requisite Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, the Group may be required to further reduce the amount of its risk-weighted assets and engage in the disposal of core and other Non-Core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the RBS Group. In addition, pursuant to the State Aid approval, should the RBS Group’s Core Tier 1 capital ratio decline to below 5 per cent. at any time before 31 December 2014, or should the RBS Group fall short of its funded balance sheet target level (after adjustments) for 31 December 2013 by £30 billion or more, it will be required to reduce its risk-weighted assets by a further £60 billion in excess of its plan through further disposals of identifiable businesses and their associated assets. Any such forced reduction in risk-weighted assets may have an impact on the Group, depending on which assets are ultimately selected for disposal. 12 As at 31 December 2010, the Group’s Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 capital ratios were 10.7 per cent and 9.5 per cent, respectively, calculated in accordance with FSA requirements. Any change that limits the ability of RBSG or the Group to manage effectively its balance sheet and capital resources going forward (including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded pension exposures or otherwise) or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate. Under IFRS, the Group recognises at fair value: (i) financial instruments classified as “held-for-trading” or “designated as at fair value through profit or loss”; (ii) financial assets classified as “available-for-sale”; and (iii) derivatives. Generally, to establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, as has been the case during the recent financial crisis. In such circumstances, the Group’s internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates the Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies. Such assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the Group’s earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity have challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and have made it difficult to value certain of the Group’s financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in further significant changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and consolidating. If the Group is unable to perform effectively, its business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The consolidation that has taken place in recent years among banking institutions in the UK and the US continues to change the competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions. If financial markets continue to be volatile, more banks may be forced to consolidate. This consolidation, in combination with the introduction of new entrants into the US and UK markets from other European and Asian countries, could increase competitive pressures on the Group. In addition, certain competitors may have access to lower cost funding and/or be able to attract retail deposits on more favourable terms than the Group and may have stronger multi-channel and more efficient operations as a result of greater historical investments. Furthermore, the Group’s competitors may be better able to attract and retain clients and key employees, which may have a negative impact on the Group’s relative performance and future prospects. Furthermore, increased government ownership of, and involvement in, banks generally may have an impact on the competitive landscape in the major markets in which the Group operates. The effects of the substantial government shareholding and involvement in the banks may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and such involvement may cause the Group to experience stronger competition for corporate, institutional and retail clients and greater pressure on profit margins. Future disposals and restructurings by the Group and the compensation structure and restrictions imposed on the Group may also have an impact on its ability to compete effectively. Since the markets in which the Group operates are expected to remain highly competitive in all areas, these and other changes to the competitive landscape could adversely affect the Group’s business, margins, profitability, financial condition and prospects or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The RBS Group and the Group may suffer if they do not maintain good employee relations. In recent years, the RBS Group has altered certain of the pension benefits it offers to staff and some employees continue to participate in defined benefit arrangements. The following two changes have been made to the main defined benefit pension plans: (i) a yearly limit on the amount of any salary increase that will count for pension purposes; and (ii) a reduction in the severance lump sum for those who take an immediate undiscounted pension for redundancy. In addition, certain of the Group’s employees in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates are represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions. Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to the Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the Group’s business, reputation and results. 13 Each of the Group’s businesses is subject to substantial regulation and oversight. Significant regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its results of operations and financial condition. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies in each jurisdiction in which it operates. All of these are subject to change, particularly in the current regulatory and market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention, changes to the regulations governing financial institutions and reviews of the industry, including nationalisations or injections of government capital in the US, the UK and other European countries. In recent years, there has also been increasing focus in the UK, US and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates on compliance with anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and other similar sanctions regimes. As a result of the environment in which the Group operates, increasing regulatory focus in certain areas and ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape (including requirements imposed by virtue of the Group’s participation in government or regulator-led initiatives), the Group expects to face greater regulation and scrutiny in the countries in which it operates. Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the effect that recent regulatory developments and heightened levels of public and regulatory scrutiny will have on the Group, the enactment of legislation and regulations (such as the bank levy in the UK or the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the US) is likely to result in increased capital and liquidity requirements and changes in regulatory requirements relating to the calculation of capital and liquidity metrics or other prudential rules relating to capital adequacy frameworks, and may result in an increased number of regulatory investigations and actions. Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on how the Group conducts its business, applicable authorisations and licences, the products and services it offers, its reputation, the value of its assets, its funding costs and its results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in its securities. Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, regulatory changes and increased public and regulatory scrutiny could have an adverse impact on the Group include, but are not limited to: – the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of central banks and other governmental or regulatory bodies; – requirements to separate retail banking from investment banking, and restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within a commercial bank and/or a group which contains a commercial bank; – requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other than shareholder value creation; – changes to financial reporting standards (including accounting standards), corporate governance requirements, corporate structures and conduct of business rules; – the imposition of restrictions on the Group’s ability to compensate employees; – regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions regimes; – rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and confiscation of assets; – other requirements or policies affecting the Group’s profitability, such as the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, further restrictions on business growth or pricing, and the introduction of, and changes to, levies, fees or taxes applicable to the Group’s operations (such as the imposition of financial activities taxes and changes in tax rates that reduce the value of deferred tax assets); and – other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty which, in turn, may affect demand for the Group’s products and services. For further information on the bank levy in the United Kingdom, see the section headed ‘Bank levy’ in Note 30 on the Group’s financial statements. 14 RBSG, the Group and other RBS Group members are and may be subject to litigation and regulatory investigations that may impact the Group’s business. The RBS Group’s operations are diverse and complex, and it operates in legal and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk. As a result, RBSG, the Group and other RBS Group members are, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations in the UK, the EU, the US and other jurisdictions, including anti-money laundering charges and sanctions, compliance investigations and review by the European Commission under State Aid rules. Furthermore, the RBS Group, like many other financial institutions, has come under greater regulatory scrutiny in recent years and expects that environment to continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as it relates to compliance with new and existing corporate governance, employee compensation, conduct of business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes. Disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations are subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly in the early stages of a case or investigation. Adverse regulatory action or adverse judgments in litigation against RBSG, the Group or any other RBS Group members could result in restrictions or limitations on the Group’s operations or have a significant effect on the Group’s reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. For details about certain investigations, supervisory matters and litigation matters to which the Group is subject, refer to Note 30 on the Group’s financial statements. The Group’s results could be adversely affected in the event of goodwill impairment. The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Acquired goodwill is recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. As required by IFRS, the Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently, at external reporting dates, when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount (the higher of the value in use and fair value less cost to sell) of an individual cash generating unit with its carrying value. The value in use and fair value of the Group’s cash generating units are affected by market conditions and the performance of the economies in which the Group operates. Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the Group’s income statement, although it has no effect on the Group’s regulatory capital position. The Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations. The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and a number of current employees. Pensions risk is the risk that the assets of the Group’s various defined benefit pension schemes which are long term in nature do not fully match the timing and amount of the schemes’ liabilities as a result of which the Group is required or chooses to make additional contributions to the schemes. Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members as well as changes in applicable legislation. The schemes’ assets comprise investment portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the scheme members. Risk arises from the schemes because the value of these asset portfolios’ returns from them and any additional future contributions to the schemes may be less than expected and because there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes’ liabilities. In these circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes, and during recent periods, the Group has voluntarily made such contributions to the schemes. Given the recent economic and financial market difficulties and the prospect that they may continue over the near and medium term, the Group may experience increasing pension deficits or be required or elect to make further contributions to its pension schemes and such deficits and contributions could be significant and have an adverse impact on the Group’s results of operations or financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. A funding valuation of the Group’s main defined benefit pension plan, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund is currently being carried out with an effective date of 31 March 2010. Operational risks are inherent in the Group’s operations. The Group’s operations are dependent on the ability to process a very large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying with applicable laws and regulations where it does business. The Group has complex and diverse operations and operational risk and losses can result from internal and external fraud, errors by employees or third parties, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules (including those arising out of anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes), equipment failures, business continuity and data security system failures, natural disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems and controls, including those of the Group’s suppliers or counterparties. Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures, to identify and rectify weaknesses in existing procedures and to train staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group. Any weakness in these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged breaches of such laws or regulations, could result in increased regulatory supervision, enforcement actions and other disciplinary action, and have an adverse impact on the Group’s business, applicable authorisations and licences, reputation, results of operations and the price of its securities. Notwithstanding anything contained in this risk factor, it should not be taken as implying that the Bank will be unable to comply with its obligations as a company with securities admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority (the “Official List”) nor that it, or its relevant subsidiaries, will be unable to comply with its or their obligations as supervised firms regulated by the FSA. 15 The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation and its interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate and other taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Group’s activities are subject to tax at various rates around the world computed in accordance with local legislation and practice. Action by governments to increase tax rates or to impose additional taxes or to restrict the tax reliefs currently available to the Group would reduce the Group’s profitability. Revisions to tax legislation or to its interpretation might also affect the Group’s results in the future. From January 2011, the UK Government increased the standard rate of value added tax from 17.5 per cent to 20 per cent and on 1 January 2011, the UK Government introduced the banking levy. These changes, together with any future changes, such as the possible introduction of a financial activities tax, could reduce the Group’s profitability. HM Treasury (or UKFI on its behalf) may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over the RBS Group, including the Group. UKFI manages HM Treasury’s shareholder relationship with RBSG. Although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to respect the commercial decisions of the RBS Group and that RBSG and the other RBS Group companies (including the Group) will continue to have their own independent board of directors and management team determining their own strategies, should its current intentions change, HM Treasury's position as a majority shareholder of RBSG (and UKFI’s position as manager of this shareholding) means that HM Treasury or UKFI may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over, among other things, the election of directors and the appointment of senior management of any RBS Group company. In addition, as the provider of the APS, HM Treasury has a range of rights that other shareholders of RBSG do not have. These include rights under the terms of the APS over the RBS Group's remuneration policy and practice. The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM Treasury’s rights as majority shareholder of RBSG or in which HM Treasury exercises its rights under the APS could give rise to conflict between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of other RBSG and Group shareholders. The RBSG and Group Boards have a duty to promote the success of the respective companies for the benefit of their members as a whole. The UK Government currently holds approximately 68 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of RBSG and, indirectly, the Group’s share capital. On 22 December 2009, RBSG issued £25.5 billion of B shares to the UK Government. The B shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into ordinary shares of RBSG. The UK Government has agreed that it shall not exercise the rights of conversion in respect of the B shares if and to the extent that following any such conversion it would hold more than 75 per cent of the total issued shares in RBSG. The Group’s operations have inherent reputational risk. Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Group’s business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which any member of the RBS Group, including the Group, conducts its business activities, from financial performance, from the level of direct and indirect government support or from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry. Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Group’s ability to keep and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors. The Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk. In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their obligations to customers. In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the “Compensation Scheme”) was established under the FSMA and is the UK’s statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms. The Compensation Scheme can pay compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act. The Compensation Scheme is funded by levies on firms authorised by the FSA, including the Group. In the event that the Compensation Scheme raises funds from the authorised firms, raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, the associated costs to the Group may have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. As at 31 December 2010, the Group had accrued £110 million for its share of Compensation Scheme management expenses levies for the 2010/2011 and 2011/2012 Compensation Scheme years. In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or reimbursement schemes the Group may make further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, which may have an adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The Group’s business and earnings may be adversely affected by geopolitical conditions. The performance of the Group is significantly influenced by the geopolitical and economic conditions prevailing at any given time in the countries in which it operates, particularly the UK, the US and the Republic of Ireland. For example, the Group has a presence in countries where businesses could be exposed to the risk of business interruption and economic slowdown following the outbreak of a pandemic, or the risk of sovereign default following the assumption by governments of the obligations of private sector institutions. Similarly, the Group faces the heightened risk of trade barriers, exchange controls and other measures taken by sovereign governments which may impact a borrower’s ability to repay. Terrorist acts and threats and the response to them of governments in any of these countries could also adversely affect levels of economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the Group’s business. 16 The recoverability and regulatory capital treatment of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group depends on the Group’s ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits and there being no adverse changes to tax legislation, regulatory requirements or accounting standards. In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered. The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and allowable losses. Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation or accounting standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets. In April 2011, the United Kingdom Government will commence a staged reduction in the rate of United Kingdom corporation tax from 28 per cent to 23 per cent over a four-year period. Such a change in the applicable tax rate would reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets. There is currently no restriction in respect of deferred tax assets recognised by the Group for regulatory purposes. Changes in regulatory capital rules may restrict the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised and such changes could lead to a reduction in the Group’s Core Tier 1 capital ratio. In particular, on 16 December 2010, the Basel Committee published the Basel III rules setting out certain changes to capital requirements (see the risk factor above headed “The Group’s business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements”). Those rules include a requirement that deferred tax assets which rely on future profitability of the Group to be realised may only receive limited recognition when calculating the common equity component of Tier 1 which therefore limits the amount of deferred tax assets which can count towards that component of Tier 1 capital. The implementation of the Basel III reforms will begin on 1 January 2013, however the restrictions on recognition of deferred tax assets within the common equity component of Tier 1 are subject to a phased-in deduction starting on 1 January 2014, to be fully effective by 1 January 2018. The APS may result in greater tax liabilities for the Group and the loss of potential tax benefits. RBS Group can opt (with the consent of HM Treasury) to satisfy the annual fee in respect of both the APS and the Contingent Subscription and any APS exit fee by waiving certain United Kingdom tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax assets. It has not opted to do so to date, but if it does so in the future, it is difficult to value accurately the cost to the Group, which depends on unascertainable factors including the extent of future losses and any changes in tax law. In addition to suffering greater tax liabilities in future years as a result of the waiver of the right to certain United Kingdom tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax assets (the “Tax Loss Waiver”), the Group may also be subject to further tax liabilities in the United Kingdom and overseas in connection with the APS. The Tax Loss Waiver provides that RBS Group is not permitted to enter into arrangements which have a main purpose of reducing the net cost of the Tax Loss Waiver. It is unclear precisely how these restrictions will apply, but it is possible that they may limit the operations and future post-tax profitability of the Group. 17 