Risk factors Most of the risk factors facing RBS Group also apply to NatWest Group and are discussed in this section. References in this section to “the company” refer to the ultimate holding company. Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the RBS Group’s future results and cause them to be materially different from expected results. The RBS Group’s results are also affected by competition and other factors. The factors discussed in this report should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Risks relating to the company The company and its United Kingdom bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act 2009. Under the provisions of the Banking Act 2009, substantial powers have been granted to HM Treasury and the Bank of England as part of the special resolution regime to stabilise banks that are in financial difficulties (the “SRR”), which includes certain consultation and consent rights granted to the FSA (the FSA, together with HM Treasury and the Bank of England, the “Authorities”). The SRR confers powers on the Bank of England: (i) to transfer to the private sector all or part of the business of a United Kingdom incorporated institution with permission to accept deposits pursuant to Part IV of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) (a “relevant entity”) or its securities of such relevant entity; (ii) to transfer all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a “bridge bank” established by the Bank of England and also confers a power on HM Treasury to transfer into temporary public ownership (nationalise) the relevant entity or its United Kingdom incorporated holding company. The Banking Act also provides for two new insolvency and administration procedures for relevant entities. The purpose of the stabilisation options is to address the situation where all or part of the business of a relevant entity has encountered, or is likely to encounter, financial difficulties. Accordingly, the stabilisation options may only be exercised if the FSA is satisfied that (i) a relevant entity such as the company's United Kingdom banking subsidiaries, including the Royal Bank and NatWest, is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the threshold conditions set out in Schedule 6 to the FSMA; and (ii) having regard to timing and other relevant circumstances, it is not reasonably likely that (ignoring the stabilisation options) action will be taken that will enable the relevant entity to satisfy those threshold conditions. The threshold conditions are conditions which an FSA-authorised institution must satisfy in order to retain its FSA authorisation. They are relatively wide-ranging and deal with most aspects of a relevant entity’s business, including, but not limited to, minimum capital resource requirements. It is therefore possible that the FSA may trigger one of the stabilisation options before an application for an insolvency or administration order could be made. The stabilisation options may be exercised by means of powers to transfer property, rights or liabilities of a relevant entity and shares and other securities issued by a relevant entity. HM Treasury may also take the parent company of a relevant entity (such as the company) into temporary public ownership provided that certain conditions set out in Section 82 of the Banking Act are met. Temporary public ownership is effected by way of a share transfer order and can be actioned irrespective of the financial condition of the parent company. If HM Treasury makes the decision to take the company into temporary public ownership, it may take various actions in relation to any securities issued by the company or its subsidiaries (the “Securities”) without the consent of holders of the Securities, including (among other things): (i) transferring its Securities free from any contractual or legislative restrictions on transfer; (ii) transferring its Securities free from any trust, liability or encumbrance; (iii) extinguishing any rights to acquire Securities; (iv) delisting the Securities; (v) converting its Securities into another form or class (including, for example, into equity Securities); or (vi) disapplying any termination or acceleration rights or events of default under the terms of its Securities which would be triggered by the transfer. Where HM Treasury has made a share transfer order in respect of securities issued by the holding company of a relevant entity, HM Treasury may make an order providing for the property, rights or liabilities of the holding company or of any relevant entity in the holding company group to be transferred and where such property is held on trust, removing or altering the terms of such trust. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the taking of any such actions would not adversely affect the rights of holders of its Securities and/or adversely affect the price or value of their investment or that the ability of the company to satisfy its obligations under contracts related to its Securities would be unaffected. In such circumstances, such holders may have a claim for compensation under one of the compensation schemes currently existing under, or contemplated by, the Banking Act if any action is taken in respect of its Securities (for the purposes of determining an amount of compensation, an independent valuer must disregard actual or potential financial assistance provided by the Bank of England or HM Treasury). There can be no assurance that holders of its Securities would thereby recover compensation promptly and/or equal to any loss actually incurred. If the company was taken into temporary public ownership and a partial transfer of its or any relevant entity’s business was effected, or if a relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its business to another entity was effected, the transfer may directly affect the company and/or its RBS Group companies by creating, modifying or cancelling their contractual arrangements with a view to ensuring the provision of such services and facilities as are required to enable the bridge bank or private sector purchaser to operate the transferred business (or any part of it) effectively. For example, the transfer may (among other things) (i) require the company or RBS Group companies to support and co-operate with the bridge bank or private sector purchaser; (ii) cancel or modify contracts or arrangements between the company or the transferred business and a RBS Group company; or (iii) impose additional obligations on the company under new or existing contracts. There can be no assurance that the taking of any such actions would not adversely affect the ability of the company to satisfy its obligations under the issued Securities or related contracts. 6 Financial review If the company was taken into temporary public ownership and a partial transfer of its or any relevant entity’s business was effected, or if a relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its business to another entity was effected, the nature and mix of the assets and liabilities not transferred may adversely affect the company's financial condition and increase the risk that the company may eventually become subject to administration or insolvency proceedings pursuant to the Banking Act. While the main provisions of the Banking (Special Provisions) Act 2008 were in force, which conferred certain transfer powers on HM Treasury, the United Kingdom Government took action under that Act in respect of a number of United Kingdom financial institutions, including, in extreme circumstances, full and part nationalisation. There have been concerns in the market in the past year regarding the risks of such nationalisation in relation to the company and other United Kingdom banks. If economic conditions in the United Kingdom or globally were to deteriorate, or the events described in the following risk factors occur to such an extent that they have a materially adverse impact on the financial condition, perceived or actual credit quality, results of operations or business of any of the relevant entities in the RBS Group, the United Kingdom Government may decide to take similar action in relation to the company under the Banking Act. Given the extent of the Authorities’ powers under the Banking Act, it is difficult to predict what effect such actions might have on the RBS Group and any Securities issued by the company or RBS Group companies. However, potential impacts may include full nationalisation of the company, the total loss of value in Securities issued by the company and the inability of the company to perform its obligations under the Securities. If the relevant stabilisation option was effected in respect of the company or the stabilisation options were effected in respect of a relevant entity or its business within the RBS Group, HM Treasury would be required to make certain compensation orders, which will depend on the stabilisation power adopted. For example, in the event that the Bank of England were to transfer some of the business of a relevant entity to a bridge bank, HM Treasury would have to make a resolution fund order including a third party compensation order pursuant to the Banking Act (Third Party Compensation Arrangements for Partial Property Transfers) Regulations 2009. However, there can be no assurance that compensation would be assessed to be payable or that holders of its Securities would recover any compensation promptly and/or equal to any loss actually incurred. The RBS Group’s businesses, earnings and financial condition have been and will continue to be affected by the global economy and instability in the global financial markets. The performance of the RBS Group has been and will continue to be influenced by the economic conditions of the countries in which it operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the United States and other countries throughout Europe, the Middle East and Asia. The outlook for the global economy over the near to medium term remains challenging, particularly in the United Kingdom, the United States and other European economies. In addition, the global financial system has yet to fully overcome the difficulties which first manifested themselves in August 2007 and financial markets conditions have not yet fully normalised. These conditions led to severe dislocation of financial markets around the world and unprecedented levels of illiquidity in 2008 and 2009, resulting in the development of significant problems at a number of the world’s largest corporate institutions operating across a wide range of industry sectors, many of whom are the RBS Group’s customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of its business. In response to this economic instability and illiquidity in the market, a number of governments, including the United Kingdom Government, the governments of the other EU member states and the United States Government, have intervened in order to inject liquidity and capital into the financial system, and, in some cases, to prevent the failure of these institutions. Despite such measures, the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets have continued, with many forecasts predicting only modest levels of GDP growth over the course of 2010. Similar conditions are likely to exist in a number of the RBS Group’s key markets, including those in the United States and Europe, particularly Ireland. These conditions have exerted, and may continue to exert, downward pressure on asset prices and on availability and cost of credit for financial institutions, including the company, and will continue to impact the credit quality of the RBS Group’s customers and counterparties. Such conditions, alone or in combination with regulatory changes or actions of other market participants, may cause the RBS Group to incur losses or to experience further reductions in business activity, increased funding costs and funding pressures, lower share prices, decreased asset values, additional write-downs and impairment charges and lower profitability. The performance of the RBS Group may be affected by economic conditions impacting euro-zone member states. For example, the financial problems experienced by the government of Greece may lead to Greece issuing significant volumes of debt, which may in turn reduce demand for debt issued by financial institutions and corporate borrowers. This could adversely affect the RBS Group’s access to the debt capital markets and may increase the RBS Group’s funding costs, having a negative impact on the RBS Group’s earnings and financial condition. In addition, euro-zone countries in which the RBS Group operates may be required to provide financial assistance to Greece, which may in turn have a negative impact on the financial condition of those EU member states. Should the economic conditions facing Greece be replicated in other euro-zone member states, the risks above would be exacerbated. In addition, the RBS Group will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if major corporate borrowers or counterparty financial institutions fail or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations. The RBS Group currently experiences certain business sector and country concentration risk, primarily focused in the United States, the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe and relating to personal and banking and financial institution exposures. The RBS Group’s performance may also be affected by future recovery rates on assets and the historical assumptions underlying asset recovery rates, which (as has already occurred in certain instances) may no longer be accurate given the unprecedented market disruption and general economic instability. The precise nature of all the risks and uncertainties the RBS Group faces as a result of current economic conditions cannot be predicted and many of these risks are outside the control of the RBS Group. The RBS Group was required to obtain State aid approval, for the aid given to the RBS Group by HM Treasury and for the RBS Group’s State aid restructuring plan, from the European Commission. The RBS Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the State aid restructuring plan. The State aid restructuring plan includes a prohibition on the making of discretionary dividend or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments (including preference shares and B shares) for a two-year period commencing no later than 30 April 2010, which may impair the RBS Group’s ability to raise new Tier 1 capital through the issuance of ordinary shares and other Securities. The RBS Group was required to obtain State aid approval for the aid given to the RBS Group by HM Treasury as part of the First Placing and Open Offer undertaken by the company in December 2008, the issuance of £25.5 billion of B shares in the capital of the company which are, subject to certain terms and conditions, convertible into ordinary shares in the share capital of the company to HM Treasury, a contingent commitment by HM Treasury to subscribe for up to an additional £8 billion of B shares if certain conditions are met and the RBS Group’s participation in the Asset Protection Scheme (the “APS”) (the “State aid”). 7 Financial review continued As a result of the First Placing and Open Offer (approved as part of the European Commission’s approval of a package of measures to the banking industry in the United Kingdom in October 2008), the RBS Group was required to cooperate with HM Treasury to submit a forward plan to the European Commission. This plan was submitted and detailed discussions took place between HM Treasury, the RBS Group and the European Commission. The plan submitted not only had regard to the First Placing and Open Offer, but also the issuance of B shares to HM Treasury, the commitment by HM Treasury to subscribe for additional B shares if certain conditions were met and the RBS Group’s participation in the APS. As part of its review, the European Commission was required to assess the State aid and to consider whether the RBS Group’s long-term viability would be assured, that the RBS Group makes a sufficient contribution to the costs of its restructuring and that measures are taken to limit any distortions of competition arising from the State aid provided to the RBS Group by the United Kingdom Government. The RBS Group, together with HM Treasury, agreed in principle with the European Competition Commissioner the terms of the State aid and the terms of a restructuring plan (the “State aid restructuring plan”). On 14 December 2009, the European Commission formally approved the RBS Group’s participation in the APS, the issuance of £25.5 billion of B shares to HM Treasury, a contingent commitment by HM Treasury to subscribe for up to an additional £8 billion of B shares and the State aid restructuring plan. The prohibition on the making of discretionary dividend (including preference shares and B shares) or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments for a two-year period commencing no later than 30 April 2010 will prevent the company from paying dividends on its ordinary and preference shares and coupons on other Tier 1 securities for the same duration, and it may impair the RBS Group’s ability to raise new Tier 1 capital through the issuance of ordinary shares and other securities. It is possible a third party could challenge the approval decision in the European Courts (within specified time limits). The RBS Group does not believe that any such challenge would be likely to succeed but, if it were to succeed, the European Commission would need to reconsider its decision, which might result in an adverse outcome for the RBS Group, including a prohibition or amendment to some or all of the terms of the State aid. The European Commission could also impose conditions that are more disadvantageous, potentially materially so, to the RBS Group than those in the State aid restructuring plan. The RBS Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the State aid restructuring plan. There is no assurance that the price that the RBS Group receives for any assets sold pursuant to the State aid restructuring plan will be at a level the RBS Group considers adequate or which it could obtain in circumstances in which the RBS Group was not required to sell such assets in order to implement the State aid restructuring plan or if such sale were not subject to the restrictions (including in relation to potential purchasers of the United Kingdom branch divestment) contained in the terms thereof. Further, should the RBS Group fail to complete any of the required disposals within the agreed timeframes for such disposals, under the terms of the State aid clearance, a divestiture trustee can be empowered to conduct the disposals, with the mandate to complete the disposal at no minimum price. Furthermore, if the RBS Group is unable to comply with the terms of the State aid approval it could constitute a misuse of aid. In circumstances where the European Commission doubts that the RBS Group is complying with the terms of the State aid approval, it may open a formal investigation. At the conclusion of this investigation, if the European Commission decides that there has been misuse of aid, it can issue a decision requiring HM Treasury to recover the misused aid which could have a material adverse impact on the RBS Group. In implementing the State aid restructuring plan, the RBS Group will lose existing customers, deposits and other assets (both directly through the sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the RBS Group’s business arising from implementing the State aid restructuring plan) and the potential for realising additional associated revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such disposals. Further, the loss of such revenues and related income may extend the time period over which the RBS Group may pay any amounts owed to HM Treasury under the APS or otherwise. The implementation of the State aid restructuring plan may also result in disruption to the retained business and give rise to significant strain on management, employee, operational and financial resources, impacting customers and giving rise to separation costs which could be substantial. The implementation of the State aid restructuring plan may result in the emergence of one or more new viable competitors or a material strengthening of one or more of the RBS Group’s competitors in the RBS Group’s markets. The effect of this on the RBS Group’s future competitive position, revenues and margins is uncertain and there could be an adverse effect on the RBS Group’s operations and financial condition and its business generally. If any or all of the risks described above, or any other currently unforeseen risks, materialise, there could be a materially negative impact on the RBS Group’s business, operations, financial condition, capital position and competitive position. The RBS Group’s ability to implement its strategic plan depends on the success of the RBS Group’s refocus on its core strengths and the balance sheet reduction programme arising out of its previously announced non-core restructuring plan and the State aid restructuring plan. In light of the changed global economic outlook, the RBS Group has embarked on a financial and core business restructuring which is focused on achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, reducing reliance on wholesale funding and lowering exposure to capital intensive businesses. A key part of this restructuring is the programme announced in February 2009 to run-down and sell the RBS Group’s non-core assets and the continued review of the RBS Group’s portfolio to identify further disposals of certain non-core assets. Assets identified for this purpose and allocated to the RBS Group's Non-Core division totalled £252 billion, excluding derivatives, as at 31 December 2008. At 31 December 2009, this total had reduced to £187 billion, excluding the RBS Group's interest in RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, which was transferred to the Non-Core division during 2009. This balance sheet reduction programme will continue alongside the disposals under the State aid restructuring plan approved by the European Commission. 8 Financial review Because the ability to dispose of assets and the price achieved for such disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market conditions, which may remain challenging, there is no assurance that the RBS Group will be able to sell or run-down (as applicable) those businesses it is seeking to exit either on favourable economic terms to the RBS Group or at all. Furthermore, where transactions are entered into for the purpose of selling non-core assets and businesses, they may be subject to conditions precedent, including government and regulatory approvals and completion mechanics that in certain cases may entail consent from customers. There is no assurance that such conditions precedent will be satisfied, or consents and approvals obtained, in a timely manner or at all. There is consequently a risk that the RBS Group may fail to complete such disposals by any agreed longstop date. Furthermore, in the context of implementing the State aid restructuring plan, the RBS Group is subject to certain timing and other restrictions which may result in the sale of assets at prices below those which the RBS Group would have otherwise agreed had the RBS Group not been required to sell such assets as part of the State aid restructuring plan or if such sale were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms of the State aid conditions. In addition, the RBS Group may be liable for any deterioration in businesses being sold between the announcement of the disposal and its completion. In certain cases, the period between the announcement of a transaction and its completion may be lengthy and may span many months. Other risks that may arise out of the disposal of the RBS Group’s assets include ongoing liabilities up to completion of the relevant transaction in respect of the assets and businesses disposed of, commercial and other risks associated with meeting covenants to the buyer during the period up to completion, the risk of employee and customer attrition in the period up to completion, substantive indemnity obligations in favour of the buyer, the risk of liability for breach of warranty, the need to continue to provide transitional service arrangements for potentially lengthy periods following completion of the relevant transaction to the businesses being transferred and redundancy and other transaction costs. Further, the RBS Group may be required to enter into covenants agreeing not to compete in certain markets for specific periods of time. In addition, as a result of the disposals, the RBS Group will lose existing customers, deposits and other assets (both directly through the sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the RBS Group’s business arising from implementing the restructuring plans) and the potential for realising additional associated revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such disposals. Any of the above factors, either in the context of State aid-related or non-core or other asset disposals, could affect the RBS Group's ability to implement its strategic plan and have a material adverse effect on the RBS Group's business, results of operations, financial condition, capital ratios and liquidity and could result in a loss of value in the Securities. The extensive organisational restructuring may adversely affect the RBS Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of its refocus on core strengths and its disposal programme, the RBS Group has undertaken and continues to undertake extensive organisational restructuring involving the allocation of assets identified as non-core assets to a separate Non-Core Division, and the run-down and sale of those assets over a period of time. In addition, to comply with State aid clearance, the RBS Group agreed to undertake a series of measures to be implemented over a four-year period from December 2009, which include disposing of RBS Insurance (subject to potentially maintaining a minority interest until the end of 2014). The company will also divest by the end of 2013 Global Merchant Services, subject to the company retaining up to 20 per cent. of each business within Global Merchant Services if required by the purchaser, and its interest in RBS Sempra Commodities, as well as divesting the RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the direct small and medium-sized enterprise (“SME”) customers and certain mid-corporate customers across the United Kingdom. On 16 February 2010, the company announced that RBS Sempra Commodities had agreed to sell its Metals, Oil and European Energy business lines, subject to certain conditions including regulatory approvals. The RBS Group and its joint venture partner, Sempra Energy, are continuing to consider ownership alternatives for the remaining North American Power and Gas businesses of RBS Sempra Commodities. In order to implement the restructurings referred to above, various businesses and divisions within the RBS Group will be re-organised, transferred or sold, or potentially merged with other businesses and divisions within the RBS Group. As part of this process, personnel may be reallocated, where permissible, across the RBS Group, new technology may be implemented, and new policies and procedures may be established in order to accommodate the new shape of the RBS Group. As a result, the RBS Group may experience a high degree of business interruption, significant restructuring charges, delays in implementation, and significant strain on management, employee, operational and financial resources. Any of the above factors could affect the RBS Group’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives and have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition or could result in a loss of value in the Securities. Lack of liquidity is a risk to the RBS Group’s business and its ability to access sources of liquidity has been, and will continue to be, constrained. Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due. This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise specific factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of funding (including, for example, short-term and overnight funding), changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters. During the course of 2008 and 2009, credit markets worldwide experienced a severe reduction in liquidity and term-funding. During this time, perception of counterparty risk between banks also increased significantly. This increase in perceived counterparty risk also led to reductions in inter-bank lending, and hence, in common with many other banking groups, the RBS Group’s access to traditional sources of liquidity has been, and may continue to be, restricted. 9 Financial review continued The RBS Group’s liquidity management focuses on maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its assets, controlling the mismatch of maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and contingent liabilities. However, the RBS Group’s ability to access sources of liquidity (for example, through the issue or sale of financial and other instruments or through the use of term loans) during the recent period of liquidity stress has been constrained to the point where it, like other banks, has had to rely on shorter term and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes provided by central banks. While during the course of 2009 money market conditions improved, with the RBS Group seeing a material reduction of funding from central banks and the issuance of non-government guaranteed term debt, further tightening of credit markets could have a negative impact on the RBS Group. The RBS Group, in line with other financial institutions, may need to seek funds from alternative sources, potentially at higher costs of funding than has previously been the case. In addition, there is also a risk that corporate and institutional counterparties with credit exposures may look to reduce all credit exposures to banks, given current risk aversion trends. It is possible that credit market dislocation becomes so severe that overnight funding from non-government sources ceases to be available. Like many banking groups, the RBS Group relies on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of its funding. Furthermore, as part of its ongoing strategy to improve its liquidity position, the RBS Group is actively seeking to increase the proportion of its funding represented by customer deposits. However, such deposits are subject to fluctuation due to certain factors outside the RBS Group’s control, such as a loss of confidence, increasing competitive pressures or the encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or central bank depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of deposits within a short period of time. There is currently heavy competition among United Kingdom banks for retail customer deposits, which has increased the cost of procuring new deposits and impacted the RBS Group’s ability to grow its deposit base. An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the RBS Group’s deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other factors described above, have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s ability to satisfy its liquidity needs unless corresponding actions were taken to improve the liquidity profile of other deposits or to reduce assets. In particular, the liquidity position of the RBS Group may be negatively impacted if it is unable to achieve the run-off and sale of non-core and other assets as expected. Any significant delay in those plans may require the RBS Group to consider disposal of other assets not previously identified for disposal to achieve its funded balance sheet target level. The governments of some of the countries in which the RBS Group operates have taken steps to guarantee the liabilities of the banks and branches operating in their respective jurisdiction. Whilst in some instances the operations of the RBS Group are covered by government guarantees alongside other local banks, in other countries this may not necessarily always be the case. This may place the RBS Group’s subsidiaries operating in those countries, such as Ulster Bank Ireland Ltd, which did not participate in such government guarantee schemes, at a competitive disadvantage to the other local banks and therefore may require the RBS Group to provide additional funding and liquidity support to these operations. There can be no assurance that these measures, alongside other available measures, will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity in the markets in which the RBS Group operates, or that these measures, combined with any increased cost of any funding currently available in the market, will not lead to a further increase in the RBS Group’s overall cost of funding, which could have an adverse impact on the RBS Group’s financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. Governmental support schemes may be subject to cancellation, change or withdrawal or may fail to be renewed, which may have a negative impact on the availability of funding in the markets in which the RBS Group operates. Governmental support schemes may be subject to cancellation, change or withdrawal (on a general or individual basis, subject to relevant contracts) or may fail to be renewed, based on changing economic and political conditions in the jurisdiction of the relevant scheme. To the extent government support schemes are cancelled, changed or withdrawn in a manner which diminishes their effectiveness, or to the extent such schemes fail to generate additional liquidity or other support in the relevant markets in which such schemes operate, the RBS Group, in common with other banking groups, may continue to face limited access to, have insufficient access to, or incur higher costs associated with, funding alternatives, which could have a material adverse impact on the RBS Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The financial performance of the RBS Group has been and will be affected by borrower credit quality. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the RBS Group’s businesses. Whilst some economies stabilised over the course of 2009, the RBS Group may continue to see adverse changes in the credit quality of its borrowers and counterparties, for example, as a result of their inability to refinance their indebtedness, with increasing delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors (such as the personal and banking and financial institution sectors) and in a number of geographies (such as the United Kingdom, the United States, the Middle East and the rest of Europe, particularly Ireland). This trend has led and may lead to further and accelerated impairment charges, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for the RBS Group or result in a loss of value in the Securities. 10 Financial review The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the RBS Group’s counterparties has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the RBS Group. The RBS Group’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions has been and will continue to be adversely affected by the actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of its counterparties, including other financial institutions and corporate borrowers. The RBS Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even the perceived creditworthiness of or concerns about, one or more corporate borrowers, financial services institutions or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses and defaults and could lead to further losses or defaults, by the RBS Group or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the RBS Group to credit risk in the event of default of the RBS Group’s counterparty or client and the RBS Group does have significant exposures to certain individual counterparties (including counterparties in certain weakened sectors and markets). In addition, the RBS Group’s credit risk is exacerbated when the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to the RBS Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those recently experienced. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The RBS Group’s earnings and financial condition have been, and its future earnings and financial condition may continue to be, affected by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions. Financial markets continue to be subject to significant stress conditions, where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values have been accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified by recent events affecting asset-backed collateralised debt obligations, residential mortgage-backed securities and the leveraged loan market. In dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management strategies have proven not to be as effective as they are in normal market conditions due in part to the decreasing credit quality of hedge counterparties, including monoline and other insurance companies and credit derivative product companies. Severe market events have resulted in the RBS Group recording large write-downs on its credit market exposures in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Any deterioration in economic and financial market conditions could lead to further impairment charges and write-downs. Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity (and the assumptions, judgements and estimates in relation to such matters that may change over time and may ultimately not turn out to be accurate) make it difficult to value certain of the RBS Group’s exposures. Valuations in future periods, reflecting, among other things, then-prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit ratings of certain of the RBS Group’s assets, may result in significant changes in the fair values of the RBS Group’s exposures, even in respect of exposures, such as credit market exposures, for which the RBS Group has previously recorded write-downs. In addition, the value ultimately realised by the RBS Group may be materially different from the current or estimated fair value. Any of these factors could require the RBS Group to recognise further significant write-downs or realise increased impairment charges, any of which may adversely affect its capital position, its financial condition and its results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the RBS Group has purchased from monoline and other insurers and other market counterparties (including credit derivative product companies) depends on the value of the underlying assets and the financial condition of the insurers and such counterparties. The RBS Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative contracts, mainly credit default swaps (“CDSs”), which are carried at fair value. The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the RBS Group’s exposure to the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument against which protection has been bought. Since 2007, monoline and other insurers and other market counterparties (including credit derivative product companies) have been adversely affected by their exposure to residential mortgage linked and corporate credit products, whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived creditworthiness has deteriorated rapidly, which may continue. If the financial condition of these counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness deteriorates further, the RBS Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the credit protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs in addition to those already recorded and such adjustments may have a material adverse impact on the RBS Group’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, equity and commodity prices and other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect the RBS Group’s business. Some of the most significant market risks the RBS Group faces are interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity price risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity stress, such as those experienced in the past year. Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the company’s non-United Kingdom subsidiaries (principally Citizens and RBS Securities Inc.) and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets may affect bond, equity and commodity prices and, therefore, cause changes in the value of the RBS Group’s investment and trading portfolios. This has been the case during the period since August 2007, with market disruptions and volatility resulting in significant reductions in the value of such portfolios. While the RBS Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is difficult, particularly in the current environment, to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the RBS Group’s financial performance and business operations. 11 Financial review continued The RBS Group’s borrowing costs and its access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on its and the United Kingdom Government’s credit ratings.The company and other RBS Group members have been subject to a number of downgrades in the recent past. Any future reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of the company or one of its principal subsidiaries (particularly the Royal Bank) would further increase its borrowing costs, require the RBS Group to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer deposits, and may also limit the RBS Group’s access to capital and money markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivatives contracts and other secured funding arrangements. Furthermore, given the extent of the United Kingdom Government ownership and support provided to the RBS Group through HM Treasury’s guarantee scheme (announced by the United Kingdom Government on 8 October 2008) (the “Credit Guarantee Scheme”), any downgrade in the United Kingdom Government’s credit ratings could adversely affect the RBS Group’s own credit ratings and may have the effects noted above. All credit rating agencies have reaffirmed the United Kingdom Government’s AAA rating, although S&P changed its outlook to “negative” on 21 May 2009. Fitch reaffirmed the United Kingdom Government’s stable outlook on 31 July 2009 and Moody’s reiterated the United Kingdom Government’s stable outlook on 26 October 2009. Credit ratings of the company, the Royal Bank, ABN AMRO Holding N.V. (which was renamed “RBS Holdings N.V.” on 1 April 2010) (“ABN AMRO”), The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. (which was renamed from “ABN AMRO Bank N.V.” on 6 February 2010), Ulster Bank and Citizens are also important to the RBS Group when competing in certain markets, such as over-the-counter derivatives. As a result, any further reductions in the company’s long-term or short-term credit ratings or those of its principal subsidiaries could adversely affect the RBS Group’s access to liquidity and competitive position, increase its funding costs and have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s earnings and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The RBS Group’s business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or if there are changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. Effective management of the RBS Group’s capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy of returning to standalone strength. The RBS Group is required by regulators in the United Kingdom, the United States and in other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities, to maintain adequate capital resources. The maintenance of adequate capital is also necessary for the RBS Group’s financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy. Accordingly, the purpose of the issuance of the £25.5 billion of B shares, the grant of the Contingent Subscription and the previous placing and open offers was to allow the RBS Group to strengthen its capital position. The FSA’s recent liquidity policy statement articulates that firms must hold sufficient eligible securities to survive a liquidity stress and this will result in banks holding a greater amount of government securities, to ensure that these institutions have adequate liquidity in times of financial stress. In addition, on 17 December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) proposed a number of fundamental reforms to the regulatory capital framework in its consultative document entitled "Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector". If the proposals made by the Basel Committee are implemented, this could result in the RBS Group being subject to significantly higher capital requirements. The proposals include: (a) the build-up of a counter-cyclical capital buffer in excess of the regulatory minimum capital requirement, which is large enough to enable the RBS Group to remain above the minimum capital requirement in the face of losses expected to be incurred in a feasibly severe downturn; (b) an increase in the capital requirements for counterparty risk exposures arising from derivatives, repo-style transactions and securities financing transactions; (c) the imposition of a leverage ratio as a supplementary measure to the existing Basel II risk-based measure; (d) the phasing out of hybrid capital instruments as Tier 1 capital and the requirement that the predominant form of Tier 1 capital must be common shares and retained earnings; and (e) the imposition of global minimum liquidity standards that include a requirement to hold a stock of unencumbered high quality liquid assets sufficient to cover cumulative net cash outflows over a 30-day period under a prescribed stress scenario. The proposed reforms are subject to a consultative process and an impact assessment and are not likely to be implemented before the end of 2012. The Basel Committee will also consider appropriate transition and grandfathering arrangements. These and other future changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements in the jurisdictions in which it operates may require the RBS Group to raise additional Tier 1, Core Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital by way of further issuances of securities, including in the form of ordinary shares or B shares and could result in existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities issued by the RBS Group ceasing to count towards the RBS Group’s regulatory capital, either at the same level as present or at all. The requirement to raise additional Core Tier 1 capital could have a number of negative consequences for the company and its shareholders, including impairing the company’s ability to pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of ordinary shares and diluting the ownership of existing shareholders of the company. If the RBS Group is unable to raise the requisite Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, it may be required to further reduce the amount of its risk-weighted assets and engage in the disposition of core and other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the RBS Group. In addition, pursuant to the State aid approval, should the RBS Group’s Core Tier 1 capital ratio decline to below 5 per cent. at any time before 31 December 2014, or should the RBS Group fall short of its funded balance sheet target level (after adjustments) for 31 December 2013 by £30 billion or more, the RBS Group will be required to reduce its risk-weighted assets by a further £60 billion in excess of its plan through further disposals of identifiable businesses and their associated assets. As provided in the Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement, the RBS Group would also be subject to restrictions on payments on its hybrid capital instruments should its Core Tier 1 ratio fall below 6 per cent. or if it would fall below 6 per cent. as a result of such payment. 12 Financial review Any change that limits the RBS Group’s ability to manage effectively its balance sheet and capital resources going forward (including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded pension exposures or otherwise) or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate. Under IFRS, the RBS Group recognises at fair value: (i) financial instruments classified as “held-for-trading” or “designated as at fair value through profit or loss”; (ii) financial assets classified as “available-for-sale”; and (iii) derivatives. Generally, to establish the fair value of these instruments, the RBS Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, as has been the case during the recent financial crisis. In such circumstances, the RBS Group’s internal valuation models require the RBS Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates the RBS Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies. Such assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity have challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and have made it difficult to value certain of the RBS Group’s financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in further significant changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a negative effect on the RBS Group’s results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The RBS Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and consolidating. If the RBS Group is unable to perform effectively, its business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Recent consolidation among banking institutions in the United Kingdom, the United States and throughout Europe is changing the competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions. If financial markets continue to be volatile, more banks may be forced to consolidate. This consolidation, in combination with the introduction of new entrants into the United States and United Kingdom markets from other European and Asian countries, could increase competitive pressures on the RBS Group. In addition, certain competitors may have access to lower cost funding and/or be able to offer retail deposits on more favourable terms than the RBS Group and may have stronger multi-channel and more efficient operations as a result of greater historical investments. Furthermore, the RBS Group’s competitors may be better able to attract and retain clients and talent, which may have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s relative performance and future prospects. Furthermore, increased government ownership of, and involvement in, banks generally may have an impact on the competitive landscape in the major markets in which the RBS Group operates. Although, at present, it is difficult to predict what the effects of this increased government ownership and involvement will be or how they will differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, such involvement may cause the RBS Group to experience stronger competition for corporate, institutional and retail clients and greater pressure on profit margins. Future disposals and restructurings by the RBS Group and the compensation structure and restrictions imposed on the RBS Group may also have an impact on its ability to compete effectively. Since the markets in which the RBS Group operates are expected to remain highly competitive in all areas, these and other changes to the competitive landscape could adversely affect the RBS Group’s business, margins, profitability and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. 13 Financial review continued As a condition to HM Treasury support, the company has agreed to certain undertakings which may serve to limit the RBS Group’s operations. Under the terms of the First Placing and Open Offer, the company provided certain undertakings aimed at ensuring that the subscription by HM Treasury of the relevant ordinary shares and preference shares and the RBS Group’s participation in the Credit Guarantee Scheme offered by HM Treasury as part of its support for the United Kingdom banking industry are compatible with the common market under EU law. These undertakings include (i) supporting certain initiatives in relation to mortgage lending and lending to SMEs until 2011, (ii) regulating management remuneration and (iii) regulating the rate of growth of the RBS Group’s balance sheet. Under the terms of the placing and open offer undertaken by the company in April 2009, the RBS Group’s undertakings in relation to mortgage lending and lending to SMEs were extended to larger commercial and industrial companies in the United Kingdom. Pursuant to these arrangements the company agreed to make available to creditworthy borrowers on commercial terms, £16 billion above the amount the company had budgeted to lend to United Kingdom businesses and £9 billion above the amount the company had budgeted to lend to United Kingdom homeowners in the year commencing 1 March 2009. In relation to the 2009 commitment period, which ended on 28 February 2010, the RBS Group’s net mortgage lending to UK homeowners was £12.7 billion above the amount it had originally budgeted to lend. In relation to its business lending commitment, the RBS Group achieved £60 billion of gross new lending to businesses, including £39 billion to SMEs but, in the economic environment prevailing at the time, many customers were strongly focused on reducing their borrowings and repayments consequently increased. Moreover, the withdrawal of foreign lenders was less pronounced than anticipated, there was a sharp increase in capital market issuance and demand continued to be weak. As a result, the RBS Group’s net lending did not reach the £16 billion targeted. In March 2010, the company agreed with the United Kingdom government certain adjustments to the lending commitments for the 2010 commitment period (the 12 month period commencing 1 March 2010), to reflect expected economic circumstances over the period. As part of the amended lending commitments, the company has committed, among other things, to make available gross new facilities, drawn or undrawn, of £50 billion to UK businesses in the period 1 March 2010 to 28 February 2011. In addition, the company has agreed with the United Kingdom government to make available £8 billion of net mortgage lending in the 2010 commitment period. This is a decrease of £1 billion on the net mortgage lending target that previously applied to the 2010 commitment period which ends on 28 February 2011, to reflect that the mortgage lending commitment for the 2009 commitment period was increased from £9 billion to £10 billion. The RBS Group has also agreed to certain other commitments, which are material for the structure of the RBS Group and its operations, under the State aid restructuring plan approved by the European Commission in relation to State aid. In addition, the RBS Group, together with HM Treasury, has agreed with the European Commission a prohibition on the making of discretionary dividends (including on preference shares and B shares) or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments for a two-year period from a date commencing no later than 30 April 2010 (which the RBS Group has subsequently announced shall be 30 April 2010). It is possible that the RBS Group may, in future, be subject to further restrictions on payments on such hybrid capital instruments, whether as a result of undertakings given to regulatory bodies, changes to capital requirements such as the proposals published by the Basel Committee on 17 December 2009 or otherwise. The RBS Group has also agreed to certain other undertakings in the Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement. The undertakings described above may serve to limit the RBS Group’s operations. The RBS Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which may include members of the Board or other key employees, and it may suffer if it does not maintain good employee relations. The RBS Group’s ability to implement its strategy depends on the ability and experience of its senior management, which may include directors, and other key employees. The loss of the services of certain key employees, particularly to competitors, could have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s business. The RBS Group’s future success will also depend on its ability to attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified personnel competitively with its peers. This cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory oversight of banks and heightened scrutiny of, and (in some cases) restrictions placed upon, management compensation arrangements, in particular those in receipt of Government funding (such as the company). The RBS Group has made a commitment to comply with the FSA Remuneration Code. These rules came into force on 1 January 2010 and are in line with the agreement reached by the G-20, setting global standards for the implementation of the Financial Stability Board’s remuneration principles. The RBS Group agreed that it will be at the leading edge of implementing the G-20 principles and granted UK Financial Investments Limited (“UKFI”) consent rights over the shape and size of its aggregate bonus pool for the 2009 performance year. The level of the 2009 bonus pool and the deferral and claw-back provisions implemented by the RBS Group may impair the ability of the RBS Group to attract and retain suitably qualified personnel in various parts of the RBS Group’s businesses. 14 Financial review The RBS Group is also altering certain of the pension benefits it offers to staff. Some employees continue to participate in defined benefit arrangements. The following two changes have been made to the main defined benefit pension plans: (i) a yearly limit on the amount of any salary increase that will count for pension purposes; and (ii) a reduction in the severance lump sum for those who take an immediate undiscounted pension for redundancy. In addition to the effects of such measures on the RBS Group’s ability to retain senior management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled personnel is becoming more competitive, which means the cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase. The failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel could place the RBS Group at a significant competitive disadvantage and prevent the RBS Group from successfully implementing its strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. In addition, certain of the RBS Group’s employees in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and other jurisdictions in which the RBS Group operates are represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions. Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to the RBS Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the RBS Group’s business, reputation and results. As the RBS Group implements cost-saving initiatives and disposes of, or runs-down, certain assets or businesses (including as part of its expected restructuring plans), it faces increased risk in this regard and there can be no assurance that the RBS Group will be able to maintain good relations with its employees or employee representative bodies in respect of all matters. As a result, the RBS Group may experience strikes or other industrial action from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations and could cause damage to its reputation. Each of the RBS Group’s businesses is subject to substantial regulation and oversight. Any significant regulatory developments could have an effect on how the RBS Group conducts its business and on its results of operations and financial condition. The RBS Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies in each location in which it operates. All of these are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions, including recent nationalisations in the United States, the United Kingdom and other European countries. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape (including requirements imposed by virtue of the RBS Group’s participation in government or regulator-led initiatives), the RBS Group expects to face greater regulation in the United Kingdom, the United States and other countries in which it operates, including throughout the rest of Europe. Compliance with such regulations may increase the RBS Group’s capital requirements and costs and have an adverse impact on how the RBS Group conducts its business, on the products and services it offers, on the value of its assets and on its results of operations and financial condition, or result in a loss of value in the Securities. Other areas where governmental policies and regulatory changes could have an adverse impact include, but are not limited to: • the monetary, interest rate, capital adequacy, liquidity, balance sheet leverage and other policies of central banks and regulatory authorities; • general changes in government or regulatory policy or changes in regulatory regimes that may significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in which the RBS Group operates, increase the costs of doing business in those markets or result in a reduction in the credit ratings of the company or one of its subsidiaries; • changes to financial reporting standards; • changes in regulatory requirements relating to capital and liquidity, such as limitations on the use of deferred tax assets in calculating Core Tier 1 and/or Tier 1 capital, or prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework; • other general changes in the regulatory requirements, such as the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, restrictions on business growth or pricing, new levies or fees, requirements in relation to the structure and organisation of the RBS Group and requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other than shareholder value creation; • changes in competition and pricing environments; • further developments in financial reporting, corporate governance, corporate structure, conduct of business and employee compensation; • differentiation among financial institutions by governments with respect to the extension of guarantees to bank customer deposits and the terms attaching to such guarantees, including requirements for the entire RBS Group to accept exposure to the risk of any individual member of the RBS Group, or even third party participants in guarantee schemes, failing; • implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor compensation or reimbursement schemes; • transferability and convertibility of currency risk; • expropriation, nationalisation and confiscation of assets; • changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership; and • other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty which, in turn, may affect demand for the RBS Group’s products and services. 15 Financial review continued The RBS Group’s results have been and could be further adversely affected in the event of goodwill impairment. The RBS Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Acquired goodwill is recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. As required by IFRS, the RBS Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently, at external reporting dates, when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount (the higher of value in use and fair value less cost to sell) of an individual cash generating unit with its carrying value. The value in use and fair value of the RBS Group’s cash generating units are affected by market conditions and the performance of the economies in which the RBS Group operates. Where the RBS Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the RBS Group’s income statement, although it has no effect on the RBS Group’s regulatory capital position. The RBS Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations. The RBS Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and a number of current employees. Pensions risk is the risk that the liabilities of the RBS Group’s various defined benefit pension schemes which are long term in nature will exceed the schemes’ assets, as a result of which the RBS Group is required or chooses to make additional contributions to the schemes. The schemes’ assets comprise investment portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the scheme members. Risk arises from the schemes because the value of these asset portfolios and returns from them may be less than expected and because there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes’ liabilities. In these circumstances, the RBS Group could be obliged, or may choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes, and during recent periods, the RBS Group has voluntarily made such contributions. Given the current economic and financial market difficulties and the prospect that they may continue over the near and medium term, the RBS Group may experience increasing pension deficits or be required or elect to make further contributions to its pension schemes and such deficits and contributions could be significant and have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s capital position, results of operations or financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities. The next funding valuation of the RBS Group’s major defined benefit pension plan, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, will take place with an effective date of 31 March 2010. The RBS Group is and may be subject to litigation and regulatory investigations that may impact its business. The RBS Group’s operations are diverse and complex, and it operates in legal and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk. As a result, the RBS Group is, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations in the United Kingdom, the EU, the United States and other jurisdictions, including class action litigation, anti-money laundering investigations and review by the European Commission under State aid rules. Furthermore, the RBS Group, like many other financial institutions, has come under greater regulatory scrutiny over the last year and expects that environment to continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as it relates to compliance with new and existing corporate governance, employee compensation, conduct of business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes. Disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations are subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier stages of a case or investigation. Adverse regulatory action or adverse judgments in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the RBS Group’s operations or result in a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. For details about certain litigation and regulatory investigations in which the Group is involved, see Note 28 on the financial statements. Operational risks are inherent in the RBS Group’s operations. The RBS Group’s operations are dependent on the ability to process a very large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying with applicable laws and regulations where it does business. The RBS Group has complex and geographically diverse operations and operational risk and losses can result from internal and external fraud, errors by employees or third parties, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules (including those arising out of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes), equipment failures, natural disasters, or the inadequacy or failure of systems and controls, including those of the RBS Group’s suppliers or counterparties. Although the RBS Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures to identify and rectify weaknesses in existing procedures and to train staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the RBS Group. Any weakness in 16 Financial review these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged breaches of applicable laws or regulations, could have a materially negative impact on the RBS Group’s business, reputation and results of operations and the price of any Securities. Notwithstanding anything contained in this risk factor, it should not be taken as implying that the company will be unable to comply with its obligations as a company with securities admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority nor that it, or its relevant subsidiaries, will be unable to comply with its or their obligations as supervised firms regulated by the FSA. The RBS Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation and its interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate and other taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The RBS Group’s activities are subject to tax at various rates around the world computed in accordance with local legislation and practice. Action by governments to increase tax rates or to impose additional taxes or to restrict the tax reliefs currently available to the RBS Group would reduce the RBS Group’s profitability. Revisions to tax legislation or to its interpretation might also affect the RBS Group’s results in the future. HM Treasury (or UKFI on its behalf) may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over the RBS Group. UKFI manages HM Treasury’s shareholder relationship with the company. Although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to respect the commercial decisions of the RBS Group and that the RBS Group will continue to have its own independent board of directors and management team determining its own strategy, should its current intentions change, HM Treasury's position as a majority shareholder (and UKFI’s position as manager of this shareholding) means that HM Treasury or UKFI may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over, among other things, the election of directors and the appointment of senior management. In addition, as the provider of the APS, HM Treasury has a range of rights that other shareholders do not have. These include rights under the terms of the APS over the RBS Group's remuneration policy and practice. The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM Treasury’s rights as majority shareholder or in which HM Treasury exercises its rights under the APS could give rise to conflict between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders. The Board has a duty to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole. The RBS Group’s operations have inherent reputational risk. Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the RBS Group’s business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the RBS Group conducts its business activities, from the RBS Group’s financial performance, from the level of direct and indirect government support or from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry. Negative public opinion may adversely affect the RBS Group’s ability to keep and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors. The RBS Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk. In the United Kingdom and in other jurisdictions, the RBS Group is responsible for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their obligations to customers. In the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the “Compensation Scheme”) was established under the FSMA and is the United Kingdom’s statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms. The Compensation Scheme can pay compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act. The Compensation Scheme is funded by levies on firms authorised by the FSA, including the RBS Group. In the event that the Compensation Scheme raises funds from the authorised firms, raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, the associated costs to the RBS Group may have a material impact on its results of operations and financial condition. As at 31 December 2009, the RBS Group has a provision of £135 million for its share of Compensation Scheme management expenses levies for the 2009/10 and 2010/11 Compensation Scheme years. In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the RBS Group operates have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or reimbursement schemes (such as in the United States with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), the RBS Group may make further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, which may negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities. 17 Financial review continued The RBS Group’s business and earnings may be affected by geopolitical conditions.The performance of the RBS Group is significantly influenced by the geopolitical and economic conditions prevailing at any given time in the countries in which it operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the United States and other countries in Europe and Asia. For example, the RBS Group has a presence in countries where businesses could be exposed to the risk of business interruption and economic slowdown following the outbreak of a pandemic, or the risk of sovereign default following the assumption by governments of the obligations of private sector institutions. Similarly, the RBS Group faces the heightened risk of trade barriers, exchange controls and other measures taken by sovereign governments which may impact a borrower’s ability to repay. Terrorist acts and threats and the response to them of governments in any of these countries could also adversely affect levels of economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the RBS Group’s business. The restructuring proposals for ABN AMRO are complex and may not realise the anticipated benefits for the Group. The restructuring plan in place for the integration and separation of ABN AMRO (called The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. with effect from 6 February 2010) into and among the businesses and operations of the Consortium Members (as defined below) is complex, involving substantial reorganisation of ABN AMRO’s operations and legal structure. The restructuring plan is being implemented and significant elements have been completed within the planned timescales and the integration of the Group’s businesses continues. As part of this reorganisation, on 6 February 2010, the majority of the businesses of ABN AMRO acquired by the Dutch State were legally demerged from the ABN AMRO businesses acquired by the Group and were transferred into a newly established company, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (formerly named ABN AMRO II N.V.). This company was transferred to ABN AMRO Group N.V., a company wholly owned by the Dutch State, on 1 April 2010. Certain assets and liabilities of ABN AMRO acquired by the Dutch State were not part of the transfer which occurred on 1 April 2010 and remain within ABN AMRO (now The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V.). These will be transferred to the Dutch State as soon as possible. In addition, certain assets within ABN AMRO (The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V.) continue to be under shared ownership by the Consortium Members. The RBS Group may not realise the benefits of the acquisition or the restructuring when expected or to the extent projected. The occurrence of any of these events, including as a result of staff losses or performance issues, or as a result of further disposals or restructurings by the RBS Group, may have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s financial condition and results of operations. It is not expected that the Dutch State’s acquisition of Fortis Bank Nederland’s shares in RFS Holdings B.V. will materially affect the integration benefits envisaged by the RBS Group. The recoverability and regulatory capital treatment of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the RBS Group depends on the RBS Group's ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits and there being no adverse changes to tax legislation, regulatory requirements or accounting standards. In accordance with IFRS, the RBS Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered. The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and allowable losses. Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation or accounting standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets. There is currently no restriction in respect of deferred tax assets recognised by the RBS Group for regulatory purposes. Changes in regulatory rules may restrict the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised and such changes could lead to a reduction in the RBS Group’s Core Tier 1 capital ratio. In particular, on 17 December 2009, the Basel Committee published a consultative document setting out certain proposed changes to capital requirements (see risk factor above headed “The RBS Group’s business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or if there are changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements”). Those proposals included a requirement that deferred tax assets which rely on future profitability of the RBS Group to be realised should be deducted from the common equity component of Tier 1 and therefore not count towards Tier 1 capital. The Royal Bank has entered into a credit derivative and a financial guarantee contract with The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. which may adversely affect the Issuer Group’s results The Royal Bank has also entered into a credit derivative and a financial guarantee contract with The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V., which is a subsidiary undertaking of the ultimate holding company, under which it has sold credit protection over the exposures held by The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. and its subsidiaries that are subject to the APS. These agreements may adversely affect the Issuer Group's results as: (a) they cover 100% of losses on these assets whilst the APS provides 90% protection if losses on the whole APS portfolio exceed the first loss; and (b) the basis of valuation of the APS and the financial guarantee contract are asymmetrical: the one measured at fair value and the other at the higher of cost less amortisation and the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”. 18 