Risk factors National Westminster Bank Plc is a principal subsidiary of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc. Consequently, the risk factors facing RBS Group also apply to NatWest Group and are therefore discussed in this section. References in this section to ‘RBS’ refer to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc. Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the RBS Group’s future results and cause them to be materially different from expected results. The RBS Group’s results are also affected by competition and other factors. The factors discussed in this report should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. RBS may face the risk of full nationalisation and under such circumstances shareholders may lose the full value of their shares. Under the provisions of the Banking Act, substantial powers have been granted to HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority (FSA) as part of the Special Resolution Regime to stabilise banks that are in financial difficulties. The Special Resolution Regime gives the authorities three stabilisation options: private sector transfer, of all or part of the business of a UK-incorporated institution with permission to accept deposits (a “relevant entity”); transfer of all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a “bridge bank” established by the Bank of England; and temporary public ownership (nationalisation) of the relevant entity or its UK-incorporated holding company. The purpose of the stabilising options is to address the situation where all or part of the business of the relevant entity has encountered, or is likely to encounter, financial difficulties. Accordingly, the stabilisation options may only be exercised if the FSA is satisfied that a relevant entity such as the RBS Group’s banking subsidiaries, including the Royal Bank and NatWest, (i) is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the threshold conditions set out in Schedule 6 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the “FSMA”) and (ii) having regard to timing and other relevant circumstances it is not reasonably likely that action will be taken that will enable the relevant entity to satisfy those threshold conditions. The threshold conditions are conditions which an FSA-authorised institution must satisfy in order to retain its FSA authorisation. They are relatively wide-ranging and deal with most aspects of a relevant entity’s business, including, but not limited to, minimum capital resource requirements. It is therefore possible that the FSA may exercise one of the stabilisation options before a relevant entity is in severe difficulties and before an application for insolvency or an administration order could be made. The stabilisation options may be exercised by means of powers to transfer property, rights or liabilities of a relevant entity and shares and other securities issued by a relevant entity. HM Treasury may also take the parent company of a relevant entity (such as RBS Group) into temporary public ownership provided that certain conditions set out in Section 82 of the Banking Act are met. Temporary public ownership is effected by way of a share transfer order. If HM Treasury makes the decision to take the holding company of a relevant entity into temporary public ownership, it may take various actions in relation to securities issued by the holding company, including: · to transfer securities free from any contractual or legislative restrictions on transfer; · to transfer securities free from any trust, liability, or encumbrance; · to extinguish rights to acquire securities; · to delist securities; or · to convert securities into another form or class. Where HM Treasury has made a share transfer order in respect of securities issued by the holding company of a relevant entity, HM Treasury may make an order providing for the property, rights or liabilities of the holding company or of any relevant entity in the holding company group to be transferred. Shareholders may have a claim for compensation under one of the compensation schemes provided for in the Banking Act. For the purposes of determining an amount of compensation, an independent valuer must disregard actual or potential financial assistance provided by the Bank of England or HM Treasury. There can be no assurance that Shareholders would thereby recover compensation promptly and/or equal to any loss actually incurred. If the RBS Group were made subject to the Special Resolution Regime and a partial transfer of the RBS Group’s business was effected, the nature and mix of the assets and liabilities not transferred may adversely affect its financial condition and increase the risk that the RBS Group may eventually become subject to administration or insolvency proceedings. Over the last six months, the UK Government has taken action under the Banking (Special Provisions) Act 2008 in respect of a number of UK financial institutions including, in extreme circumstances, full and part nationalisation. There have been concerns in the market in recent months regarding the risks of such nationalisation in relation to RBS and other UK banks. If economic conditions in the UK or globally continue to deteriorate, or the events described in the following risk factors occur to such an extent that they have a materially adverse impact on the financial condition, perceived or actual credit quality, results of operations or business of any of the relevant entities in the RBS Group, the UK Government may decide to take similar action in relation to RBS. Given the extent of HM Treasury’s and the Bank of England’s powers under the Banking Act, it is difficult to predict what effect such actions might have on RBS and any securities issued by it. However, potential impacts may include full nationalisation of RBS and the total loss of value in RBS shares. 6 If RBS is unable to participate in the Asset Protection Scheme (APS), or the operation of the APS fails to have the desired effect on RBS’s financial and capita position, RBS may face the increased risk of full nationalisation. If the costs of participation outweigh the benefits, this could have a negative impact on RBS’s business, earnings and financial prospects and its Share price may suffer. On 26 February 2009, RBS announced its intention to participate in the APS. However, its ability to participate in the APS is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions which may not be satisfied, including, among others, the completion of due diligence by (and to the satisfaction of) HM Treasury, the receipt of certain regulatory approvals (including European Commission State Aid clearance), the approval of a majority of RBS’s Independent Shareholders, finalisation of the terms of the APS and RBS’s participation therein and the satisfaction by RBS of certain specified application criteria. The failure to satisfy these conditions could result in RBS being unable to participate in the APS and therefore failing to obtain protection against stressed losses through the economic cycle as well as failing to improve its capital ratios at the RBS consolidated Group level. The result of this may mean intervention by the UK Government, which could include full nationalisation, under which circumstances any compensation payable to Shareholders would be subject to the provisions of the Banking Act, and Shareholders may lose the full value of their Shares. Furthermore, even if RBS is able to participate in the APS, there can be no assurance that such participation will enable RBS to achieve all of the stated goals of the APS. While the APS is expected to limit losses associated with assets to be covered by the APS, RBS would remain fully exposed in respect of a specified “first loss” amount and exposed to 10 per cent. of losses exceeding that “first loss” amount. In addition, RBS would continue to be exposed to the risk of losses, impairments and write-downs with respect to assets not covered by the APS. Although RBS would have the option to obtain an additional £6 billion in capital from HM Treasury (in the form of a subscription for further B Shares) there can be no assurance that such additional capital, together with RBS’s strengthened capital position as a result of the Placing and Open Offer, and the capital resulting from the proposed issue of the £6.5 billion and £13 billion of B Shares, will be sufficient to maintain the RBS Group’s capital ratios in the event of further losses, which could cause RBS’s business, results of operation and financial condition to suffer, its credit rating to drop, its ability to lend and access funding to be further limited, its cost of funding to increase and its Share price to decline, any of which would increase the risk of the full nationalisation of RBS. In addition, there can be no assurance that the costs to RBS of its participation in the APS will not outweigh any benefits received. For example, RBS has agreed in principle that if it accedes to the APS, it will give up the right to certain tax losses and allowances which may affect the after-tax returns of the RBS Group in future years. As a result of RBS’s agreement to give up such UK tax losses and allowances it is likely that RBS will pay UK corporation tax in earlier accounting periods than it would otherwise have done. The RBS Group’s businesses, earnings and financial condition have been and will continue to be affected by the continued deterioration in the global economy, as well as ongoing instability in the global financial markets. The performance of the RBS Group has been and will continue to be influenced by the economic conditions of the countries in which it operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the United States and other countries throughout Europe and Asia. Recessionary conditions are present in many of these countries, including the United Kingdom and the United States, and such conditions are expected to continue or worsen over the near to medium term. In addition, the global financial system is continuing to experience the difficulties which first manifested themselves in August 2007, and the financial markets have deteriorated significantly since the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers in September 2008. These conditions have led to severe and continuing dislocation of financial markets around the world and unprecedented levels of illiquidity, resulting in the development of significant problems at a number of the world’s largest corporate institutions operating across a wide range of industry sectors, many of whom are the RBS Group’s customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of its business. In response to this economic instability and illiquidity in the market, a number of governments, including the UK Government, the governments of the other EU member states and the US Government, have intervened in order to inject liquidity and capital into the financial system, and, in some cases, to prevent the failure of these institutions. Despite such measures, the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets have continued at unprecedented levels, and global recessionary conditions are expected to continue. These conditions have produced and will continue to produce downward pressure on stock prices and on availability and cost of credit for financial institutions, including the RBS Group, and will continue to impact on the credit quality of the RBS Group’s customers and counterparties. Such conditions, alone or in combination with regulatory changes or actions of other market participants, may cause the RBS Group to experience further reductions in business activity, increased funding costs and funding pressures, lower share prices, decreased asset values, additional write downs and impairment charges and lower profitability or to incur losses. In addition, the RBS Group will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if major corporate borrowers or counterparty financial institutions fail or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations. The RBS Group’s performance may also be affected by future recovery rates on assets and the historical assumptions underlying asset recovery rates, which may no longer be accurate given the unprecedented market disruption and general economic instability. The precise nature of all the risks and uncertainties the RBS Group faces as a result of current economic conditions cannot be predicted and many of these risks are outside the RBS Group’s control. 7 Any conversion of the B Shares would significantly increase HM Treasury’s ownership interest in RBS, have a corresponding dilutive effect on other RBS Shareholders and could result in the delisting of RBS’s securities. At the same time as RBS announced its proposed participation in the APS, RBS announced that, if it participated in the APS, it would issue £6.5 billion of B Shares to HM Treasury. RBS also announced that it would issue a further £13 billion of B Shares to HM Treasury on or after implementation of the APS, and HM Treasury would grant RBS the option to require HM Treasury to purchase a further £6 billion of B Shares from it. The B Shares, if issued, will rank pari passu with the Ordinary Shares on a winding-up. The B Shares would be convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into Ordinary Shares at an initial conversion price of £0.50 per Ordinary Share. HM Treasury would agree not to convert any B Shares it holds if, as a result of such conversion, it would hold 75 per cent. or more of the Ordinary Shares, unless the price of the Ordinary Shares is equal to or exceeds £0.65 for a specified period in which case conversion is mandatory in any event. In addition, HM Treasury will not be entitled to vote in respect of Ordinary Shares acquired by it as a result of the conversion of B Shares into Ordinary Shares to the extent, but only to the extent, that votes cast on such Ordinary Shares, together with any other votes which HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any other Ordinary Shares held by or on behalf of HM Treasury would exceed 75 per cent. of the total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution presented at a general meeting of RBS. If all £25.5 billion of B Shares are issued, such conversion of the B Shares would significantly increase HM Treasury’s ownership interest in RBS up to approximately 84.4 per cent. of the RBS’s issued share capital, and have a corresponding dilutive effect on other RBS Shareholders (as would the issue of the B Shares themselves in the event of a winding-up) although any such conversion would have no impact on the RBS Group’s Tier 1 capital position. Furthermore, a mandatory conversion of the B Shares by HM Treasury would put RBS in breach of the Listing Rules requirement that 25 per cent. of its issued share capital must be in public hands. Although RBS may apply to the UKLA for a waiver in such circumstances, there is no guarantee that such a waiver would be granted, the result of which could be the delisting of RBS from the Official List and potentially other exchanges where its securities are currently listed and traded. Lack of liquidity is a risk to the RBS Group’s business and its ability to access sources of liquidity has been, and will continue to be, constrained. Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due. This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise specific factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of funding (including, for example, short term and overnight funding), changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters. Credit markets worldwide have experienced and continue to experience a severe reduction in liquidity and term-funding in the aftermath of events in the US sub-prime residential mortgage market and the current severe market dislocation. Perception of counterparty risk between banks has also increased significantly following the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers. This increase in perceived counterparty risk has led to further reductions in inter-bank lending, and hence, in common with many other banks, the RBS Group’s access to traditional sources of liquidity has been, and may continue to be, restricted. The RBS Group’s liquidity management focuses on maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its operations, controlling the mismatch of maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and contingent liabilities. However, the RBS Group’s ability to access sources of liquidity (for example, through the issue or sale of financial and other instruments or through the use of term loans) during the recent period of liquidity stress has been constrained to the point where it, like other banks, has had to rely on shorter term and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes provided by central banks. In addition, there is also a risk that corporate and institutional counterparties with credit exposures may look to reduce all credit exposures to banks, given current risk aversion trends. It is possible that credit market dislocation becomes so severe that overnight funding from non-government sources ceases to be available. Furthermore, like many banks, the RBS Group relies on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of its funding requirements and such deposits are subject to fluctuation due to certain factors outside the RBS Group’s control, such as a loss of confidence, competitive pressures or the encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or central bank depositors which could result in a significant outflow of deposits within a short period of time. Any material decrease in the RBS Group’s deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other factors described above, have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s liquidity unless corresponding actions were taken to improve the liquidity profile of other deposits or to reduce assets. The governments of some of the countries in which the RBS Group operates have taken steps to guarantee the liabilities of the banks and branches operating in their respective jurisdiction. Whilst in some instances the operations of the RBS Group are covered by government guarantees alongside other local banks, in other countries this may not necessarily always be the case. This may place subsidiaries operating in those countries, such as Ulster Bank Ireland Ltd, which did not participate in such government guarantee schemes, at a competitive disadvantage to the other local banks and therefore may require the RBS Group to provide additional funding and liquidity support to these operations. There can be no assurance that these measures, alongside other available measures, will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity in the markets in which the RBS Group operates, or that these measures, combined with any increased cost of any funding currently available in the market, will not lead to a further increase in the RBS Group’s overall cost of funding, which could have an adverse impact on the RBS Group’s financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. Governmental support schemes are subject to cancellation, change or withdrawal (on a general or individual basis), which may have a negative impact on the availability of funding in the markets in which the RBS Group operates. Governmental support schemes are subject to cancellation, change or withdrawal (on a general or individual basis) subject to contract, based on changing economic and political conditions in the jurisdiction of the relevant scheme. Furthermore, certain schemes which have been recently announced have in fact not been fully implemented, or their terms have not yet been finalised. To the extent government support schemes are cancelled, changed or withdrawn in a manner which diminishes their effectiveness, or to the extent such schemes fail to generate additional liquidity or other support in the relevant markets in which such schemes operate, the RBS Group, in common with other banks, may continue to face limited access to, have insufficient access to, or incur higher costs associated with, funding alternatives, which could have a material adverse impact on the RBS Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and result in a loss of value in RBS shares. 8 The financial performance of the RBS Group has been and will be affected by borrower credit quality. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the RBS Group’s businesses. The outlook for the global economy over the near to medium term has continued to deteriorate, particularly in the UK, the United States and other European economies. For example, there is an expectation of further reductions in residential and commercial property prices, higher unemployment rates and reduced profitability of corporate borrowers. As a result, the RBS Group has seen and expects to continue to see adverse changes in the credit quality of its borrowers and counterparties, with increasing delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors. This trend has led and may lead to further impairment charges, higher costs, additional write downs and losses for the RBS Group or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the RBS Group’s counterparties has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the RBS Group. The RBS Group’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions has been and will continue to be adversely affected by the actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of its counterparties, including other financial institutions and corporate borrowers. The RBS Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even the perceived creditworthiness of or concerns about, one or more corporate borrowers, financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the RBS Group or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the RBS Group to credit risk in the event of default of the RBS Group’s counterparty or client. In addition, the RBS Group’s credit risk is exacerbated when the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to the RBS Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those currently experienced. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The RBS Group’s earnings and financial condition have been, and its future earnings and financial condition are likely to continue to be, affected by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions. Financial markets are currently subject to significant stress conditions, where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values have been accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified by recent events affecting asset backed collateralised debt obligations (CDOs), the US subprime residential mortgage market and the leveraged loan market. In dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management strategies have proven not to be as effective as they are in normal market conditions due in part to the decreasing credit quality of hedge counterparties, including monoline and other insurance companies and credit derivative product companies. Severe market events have resulted in the RBS Group recording large write-downs on its credit market exposures in 2007 and 2008. The RBS Group expects that the deterioration in economic and financial market conditions will lead to further impairment charges and write-downs during the current financial year. Moreover, recent market volatility and illiquidity has made it difficult to value certain of the RBS Group’s exposures. Valuations in future periods, reflecting, among other things, then-prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit ratings of certain of the RBS Group’s assets, may result in significant changes in the fair values of the RBS Group’s exposures, even in respect of exposures, such as credit market exposures, for which the RBS Group has previously recorded write-downs. In addition, the value ultimately realised by the RBS Group may be materially different from the current or estimated fair value. Any of these factors could require the RBS Group to recognise further significant write-downs or realise increased impairment charges, any of which may adversely affect its capital position, its financial condition and its results of operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the RBS Group has purchased from monoline and other insurers and other market counterparties (including credit derivative product companies) depends on the value of the underlying assets and the financial condition of the insurers and such counterparties. The RBS Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative contracts, mainly credit default swaps (CDSs), which are carried at fair value. The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the RBS Group’s exposure to the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument against which protection has been bought. Since 2007, monoline and other insurers and other market counterparties (including credit derivative product companies) have been adversely affected by their exposure to residential mortgage linked and corporate credit products. As a result, their actual and perceived credit worthiness deteriorated significantly in 2008 and may continue to be so impacted in 2009. If the financial condition of these counterparties or their actual and perceived credit worthiness deteriorates further, the RBS Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the CDSs bought from these counterparties in addition to those already recorded. Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, bond, equity and commodity prices, and other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect the RBS Group’s business. Some of the most significant market risks the RBS Group faces are interest rate, foreign exchange, bond, equity and commodity price risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity stress, such as those experienced in recent months. Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar and sterling- 9 euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the RBS Group’s non-UK subsidiaries (principally ABN AMRO, Citizens and RBS Greenwich Capital) and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets may affect bond, equity and commodity prices and, therefore, cause changes in the value of the RBS Group’s investment and trading portfolios. This has been the case during the period since August 2007, with market disruptions and volatility resulting in significant reductions in the value of such portfolios. While the RBS Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is difficult, particularly in the current environment, to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the RBS Group’s financial performance and business operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The RBS Group’s borrowing costs and its access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on its credit ratings. On 19 January 2009, S&P affirmed the long-term and short-term counterparty credit ratings for the Royal Bank at A+ and A-1 respectively. The outlook for all entities of the RBS Group was confirmed as stable, reflecting S&P’s view that the RBS Group is of systemic importance to the UK banking system and that S&P now explicitly factor four notches of uplift into their long-term counterparty credit rating on the RBS Group. At the same time S&P lowered its ratings on the RBS Group’s hybrid capital issues to BB from BBB, additionally the BB rating was placed under CreditWatch with negative implications. On the same date, Fitch affirmed the RBS Group and the Royal Bank’s Long-term and Short-term Issuer Default Ratings at AA- and F1+ respectively and downgraded the RBS Group and the Royal Bank’s individual ratings to E from B/C. The outlook for the Issuer Default Ratings remains stable reflecting Fitch’s expectation of continued strong government support for the RBS Group. The RBS Group’s support rating was upgraded from 1 to 5 and its support floor revised to AA- from No Floor. Fitch also downgraded the RBS Group and the Royal Bank’s Tier 1 preference shares to BB- from A+, and upper tier 2 hybrid capital instruments issued by RBS Group companies to BB from A+ and placed all of these securities on Rating Watch Negative. Moody’s on 20 January 2009 downgraded the senior unsecured rating of the Royal Bank to Aa3 from Aa1 with a negative outlook. The RBS Group’s senior debt rating was downgraded to A1 from Aa2 again with a negative outlook. The Bank Financial Strength Rating was lowered to C- from B and remains under review for further possible downgrade. The short term P-1 ratings of both the RBS Group and the Royal Bank were affirmed. The outlook for all RBS Group entities incorporates Moody’s view on the long-term credit profile of the RBS Group beyond the current government support phase as well as their view of the very high probability of on-going support from the Aaa-rated UK Government. Any future reductions in the long-term credit ratings of the RBS Group or one of its principal subsidiaries (including NatWest) could further increase its borrowing costs. Any further reductions may also limit the RBS Group’s access to the capital markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding arrangements. Credit ratings of the RBS Group and NatWest are also important to the RBS Group when competing in certain markets, such as over-the-counter derivatives. As a result, any further reductions in the RBS Group’s or NatWest’s credit ratings could adversely affect its access to liquidity and competitive position, increase its funding costs and have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s earnings and financial condition or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The RBS Group’s business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively. Effective management of the RBS Group’s capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy. The RBS Group is required by regulators in the United Kingdom, the United States, the Netherlands and in other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities, to maintain adequate capital. The maintenance of adequate capital is also necessary to enhance the RBS Group’s financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy. Accordingly, the purpose of the First Placing and Open Offer and the issue of the Preference Shares was to allow RBS to strengthen its capital position. As at 31 December 2008 the RBS Group’s Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 capital ratios were 10.0 per cent. and 6.8 per cent. respectively, using the Basel II methodology. Although the net proceeds of the First Placing and Open Offer and the Preference Share Issue strengthened the RBS Group’s capital base significantly, and the net proceeds of the Second Placing and Open Offer were used to redeem the existing £5 billion of Preference Shares and which thereby improved the quality of the RBS Group’s capital by increasing the RBS Group’s Core Tier 1 capital ratio, any change that limits the RBS Group’s ability effectively to manage its balance sheet and capital resources going forward (including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions or otherwise) or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate. Under IFRS, the RBS Group recognises at fair value: (i) financial instruments classified as ‘held-for-trading’ or ‘designated as at fair value through profit or loss’; (ii) financial assets classified as ‘available-for-sale’; and (iii) derivatives, each as further described in ‘Accounting Policies’ on page 84 of the financial statements. Generally, to establish the fair value of these instruments, the RBS Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, as has been the case during the current financial crisis. In such circumstances, the RBS Group’s internal valuation models require the RBS Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates the RBS Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies. Such assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity has challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and has made it difficult to value certain of the RBS Group’s financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in further significant changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a negative effect on the RBS Group’s results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. 10 The RBS Group’s future earnings and financial condition in part depend on the success of the RBS Group’s strategic refocus on core strengths and its disposal programme. In light of the recently changed global economic outlook, the RBS Group has embarked on a restructuring which focused on achieving appropriate risk adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, reducing reliance on wholesale funding and lowering exposure to capital intensive businesses. The RBS Group will also continue with its disposal programme and continue to review its portfolio to identify further disposals of certain non-core assets. Although the proceeds of the Second Placing and Open Offer improved the quality of the RBS Group's capital by replacing the existing £5 billion of Preference Shares with £5 billion of Core Tier 1 capital, the global credit markets remain challenging and the RBS Group’s execution of its current and future strategic plans may not be successful. In connection with the implementation of these plans, the RBS Group may incur restructuring charges, which may be material. Furthermore, if the RBS Group’s plans, including any planned disposals, are not successful or fail to achieve the results expected, the RBS Group’s business, capital position, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects may be negatively impacted or this could result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The RBS Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and consolidating. If the RBS Group is unable to perform effectively, its business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Recent consolidation among banking institutions in the United Kingdom, the United States and throughout Europe is changing the competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions. This consolidation, in combination with the introduction of new entrants into the US and UK markets from other European and Asian countries, could increase competitive pressures on the RBS Group. Moreover, if financial markets continue to be volatile, more banks may be forced to consolidate. In addition to the effects of consolidation, increased government ownership of, and involvement in, banks generally may have an impact on the competitive landscape in the major markets in which the RBS Group operates. Although, at present, it is difficult to predict what the effects of this increased government ownership and involvement will be or how it will differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, such involvement may cause the RBS Group to experience stronger competition for corporate, institutional and retail clients and greater pressure on profit margins. Since the markets in which the RBS Group operates are expected to remain highly competitive in all areas, these and other changes to the competitive landscape could adversely affect the RBS Group’s business, margins, profitability and financial condition or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. The RBS Group has agreed to certain undertakings in relation to the operation of its business in the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement, the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement and in connection with the proposed APS, which may serve to limit the RBS Group’s operations. Under the terms of the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement, the RBS Group provided certain undertakings aimed at ensuring that the subscription by HM Treasury for the relevant Ordinary Shares and the Preference Shares and the RBS Group’s potential participation in the guarantee scheme promoted by HM Treasury as part of its support for the UK banking industry are compatible with the common market under EU law. These undertakings include (i) supporting certain initiatives in relation to mortgage lending and lending to SMEs until 2011, (ii) regulating management remuneration and (iii) regulating the rate of growth of the RBS Group’s balance sheet. Under the terms of the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement, the RBS Group’s undertakings in relation to mortgage lending and lending to SMEs were extended to larger commercial and industrial companies in the United Kingdom. These undertakings may serve to limit the RBS Group’s operations. In addition, pursuant to a lending commitments letter, the RBS Group is subject to further undertakings, which supersede the lending commitments made to HM Treasury in October 2008 and January 2009 by agreeing to lend £16 billion above the amount the RBS Group had budgeted to lend to UK businesses and £9 billion above the amount the RBS Group had budgeted to lend to UK homeowners in the year commencing 1 March 2009, with a commitment to lend at similar levels in the year commencing 1 March 2010. The RBS Group could fail to attract or retain senior management or other key employees. The RBS Group’s ability to implement its strategy depends on the ability and experience of its senior management and other key employees. The loss of the services of certain key employees, particularly to competitors, could have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s business. The RBS Group’s future success will also depend on its ability to attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified personnel competitively with its peers. This cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory oversight of banks and heightened scrutiny of, and (in some cases) restrictions placed upon, management compensation arrangements, in particular those in receipt of Government funding (such as the RBS Group). The RBS Group recently announced changes to its compensation structure which included significant reductions in bonuses to be paid in respect of 2008, and limitations on pay rises in 2009. In addition to the effects of such measures on the RBS Group’s ability to retain senior management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled personnel is becoming more competitive, which means the cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase. The failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel could prevent the RBS Group from successfully implementing its strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s financial condition and results of operations, or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. 11 Each of the RBS Group’s businesses is subject to substantial regulation and oversight. Any significant regulatory developments could have an effect on how the RBS Group conducts its business and on its results of operations and financial condition. The RBS Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each location in which it operates. All of these are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions, including recent nationalisations in the United Kingdom, the United States and other European countries. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape (including requirements imposed by virtue of the RBS Group’s participation in any government or regulator-led initiatives), the RBS Group expects to face greater regulation in the United Kingdom, the United States, the Netherlands and other countries in which it operates, including throughout the rest of Europe. Compliance with such regulations may increase the RBS Group’s capital requirements and costs and have an adverse impact on its business, the products and services it offers and the value of its assets or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. Other areas where governmental policies and regulatory changes could have an adverse impact include, but are not limited to: · the monetary, interest rate, capital adequacy and other policies of central banks and regulatory authorities; · general changes in government or regulatory policy or changes in regulatory regimes that may significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in which the RBS Group operates or may increase the costs of doing business in those markets; · changes to financial reporting standards; · other general changes in the regulatory requirements, such as prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework and the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, restrictions on business growth or pricing and requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other than shareholder value creation; · changes in competition and pricing environments; · further developments in the financial reporting environment; · differentiation amongst financial institutions by governments with respect to the extension of guarantees to bank customer deposits and the terms attaching to such guarantees, including requirements for the entire RBS Group to accept exposure to the risk of any individual member of the RBS Group, or even third party participants in guarantee schemes, failing; · implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor compensation or reimbursement schemes; · transferability and convertibility of currency risk; · expropriation, nationalisation and confiscation of assets; · changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership; and · other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty which, in turn, may affect demand for the RBS Group’s products and services. The RBS Group’s results have been and could be further adversely affected in the event of goodwill impairment. The RBS Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Acquired goodwill is recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. As required by IFRS, the RBS Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently, at external reporting dates, when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount (the higher of value in use and fair value less cost to sell) of an individual cash generating unit with its carrying value. The value in use and fair value of the RBS Group’s cash generating units are affected by market conditions and the performance of the economies in which the RBS Group operates. Where the RBS Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the RBS Group’s income statement, although it has no effect on the RBS Group’s regulatory capital position. For the year ended 31 December 2008, the NatWest Group recorded a £716 million accounting write-down of goodwill and other intangibles relating to prior year acquisitions. The RBS Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations. The RBS Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and current employees. Pensions risk is the risk that the liabilities of the RBS Group’s various defined benefit pension schemes which are long term in nature will exceed the schemes’ assets, as a result of which the RBS Group is required or chooses to make additional contributions to the schemes. The schemes’ assets comprise investment portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the scheme members. Risk arises from the schemes because the value of these asset portfolios and returns from them may be less than expected and because there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes’ liabilities. In these circumstances, the RBS Group could be obliged, or may choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes, and during recent periods, the RBS Group has voluntarily made such contributions. Given the current economic and financial market difficulties and the prospects for them to continue over the near and medium term, the RBS Group may be required or elect to make further contributions to the pension schemes and such contributions could be significant and have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s capital position results of operations or financial condition or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. 12 The RBS Group is and may be subject to litigation and regulatory investigations that may impact its business. The RBS Group’s operations are diverse and complex and it operates in legal and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk. As a result, the RBS Group is, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations in the United Kingdom, the United States and other jurisdictions, including class-action litigation. Furthermore, the RBS Group, like many other financial institutions, has come under greater regulatory scrutiny over the last year and expects that environment to continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as it relates to compliance with new and existing corporate governance, employee compensation, conduct of business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes. Disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations are subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier stages of a case or investigation. Adverse regulatory action or adverse judgements in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the RBS Group’s operations or result in a material adverse effect on the RBS Group’s reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. For details about certain litigation and regulatory investigations in which the NatWest Group is involved, see Note 29 on the financial statements. Operational risks are inherent in the RBS Group’s operations. The RBS Group’s operations are dependent on the ability to process a very large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying with applicable laws and regulations where it does business. The RBS Group has complex and geographically diverse operations and operational risk and losses can result from internal or external fraud, errors by employees or third-parties, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules (including those arising out of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes), equipment failures, natural disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems and controls, including those of the RBS Group’s suppliers or counterparties. Although the RBS Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures, to identifying and rectifying weaknesses in existing procedures and to training staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the RBS Group. Any weakness in these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged breaches of applicable laws or regulations could have a materially negative impact on the RBS Group’s business, reputation, results of operations and share price. Notwithstanding anything contained in this risk factor, it should not be taken as implying that either RBS or the RBS Group will be unable to comply with its obligations as a company with securities admitted to the Official List or as a supervised firm regulated by the FSA. The RBS Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation and its interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate and other taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The RBS Group’s activities are subject to tax at various rates around the world computed in accordance with local legislation and practice. Action by governments to increase tax rates or to impose additional taxes would reduce RBS’s profitability. Revisions to tax legislation or to its interpretation might also affect the RBS Group’s results in the future. The acquisition of a majority shareholding in the RBS Group by HM Treasury in December 2008 could lead to certain adverse tax consequences for the RBS Group. The acquisition by HM Treasury of a majority shareholding in the RBS Group in consequence of the First Placing and Open Offer could, in certain circumstances, have adverse tax consequences which could affect the post-tax profitability of the RBS Group. However, if the RBS Group enters into the APS it has agreed, in principle, to give up the right to certain UK tax losses and allowances and this may limit the adverse tax consequences of the acquisition by HM Treasury of a majority shareholding in the RBS Group. The RBS Group’s operations have inherent reputational risk. Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the RBS Group’s business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the RBS Group conducts its business activities or from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry. Negative public opinion may adversely affect the RBS Group’s ability to keep and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors. The RBS Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk. In the United Kingdom and in other jurisdictions, the RBS Group is responsible for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their obligations to customers. In the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the “Scheme”) was established under the FSMA and is the UK’s statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms. The Scheme can pay compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it and, if the Banking Bill is enacted in its current form, may be required to make payments either in connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the bank insolvency procedures under that Bill. The Scheme is funded by levies on firms authorised by the FSA, including the RBS Group. In the event that the Scheme raises funds from the authorised firms, raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, the associated costs to the RBS Group may have a material impact on its results of operations and financial condition. During the financial year ended 31 December 2008, the RBS Group made a provision of £150 million related to a levy by the Scheme. In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the RBS Group operates have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or reimbursement schemes (such as in the United States with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), the RBS Group may make further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, which may negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares. 13 The RBS Group’s business and earnings may be affected by geopolitical conditions. The performance of the RBS Group is significantly influenced by the geopolitical and economic conditions prevailing at any given time in the countries in which it operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the United States and other countries in Europe and Asia. For example, the RBS Group has a presence in countries where businesses could be exposed to the risk of business interruption and economic slowdown following the outbreak of a pandemic, or the risk of sovereign default following the assumption by governments of the obligations of private sector institutions. Similarly the RBS Group faces the heightened risk of trade barriers, exchange controls and other measures taken by sovereign governments which may impact a borrower’s ability to repay. Terrorist acts and threats and the response to them of governments in any of these countries could also adversely affect levels of economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the RBS Group's business. The restructuring proposals for ABN AMRO are complex and may not realise the anticipated benefits for the RBS Group. The restructuring plan in place for the integration and separation of ABN AMRO into and among the businesses and operations of the consortium members is complex, involving substantial reorganisation of ABN AMRO’s operations and legal structure. In addition, the plan contemplates activities taking place simultaneously in a number of businesses and jurisdictions. Although integration efforts are well underway and are being advanced on a number of fronts, the implementation of the reorganisation and the realisation of the forecast benefits within the planned timescales, particularly given current market and economic conditions, remains challenging, although the RBS Group remains confident that such goals will be achieved. Execution of the restructuring requires management resources previously devoted to the RBS Group businesses and the retention of appropriately skilled ABN AMRO staff. The RBS Group may not realise the benefits of the acquisition or the restructuring when expected or to the extent projected. The occurrence of any of these events, including as a result of staff losses or performance issues, may have a negative impact on the RBS Group’s financial condition and results of operations. It is not expected that the Dutch State’s acquisition of Fortis Bank Nederland’s shares in RFS Holdings, which was effected in December 2008, will materially affect the integration benefits envisaged by the RBS Group. The recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the RBS Group depend on the RBS Group's ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits and there being no adverse changes to tax legislation. In accordance with IFRS, the RBS Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered. The losses are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and are subject to change in respect of the rate of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and allowable losses. Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets. RBS’s ability to pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of the Ordinary Shares will depend on the availability of distributable reserves and may be limited by the terms of the B Shares. RBS’s ability to pay dividends is limited under UK company law, which limits a company to only paying cash dividends to the extent that it has distributable reserves and cash available for this purpose. As a holding company, RBS’s ability to pay dividends in the future is affected by a number of factors, principally its ability to receive sufficient dividends from subsidiaries. The payment of dividends to RBS by its subsidiaries is, in turn, subject to restrictions, including certain regulatory requirements and the existence of sufficient distributable reserves and cash in RBS’s subsidiaries. The ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends and RBS’s ability to receive distributions from its investments in other entities are subject to applicable local laws and regulatory requirements and other restrictions, including, but not limited to, applicable tax laws and covenants in some of RBS’s debt facilities. These laws and restrictions could limit the payment of future dividends and distributions to RBS by its subsidiaries, which could restrict RBS’s ability to fund other operations or to pay, in due course, a dividend to holders of the existing shares or the new shares. In addition, if the B Shares are issued, no cash dividend may be paid on the Ordinary Shares unless the cash dividend payable in respect of the same period on the B Shares is paid in full, and no scrip dividend may be paid on the Ordinary Shares unless the cash or scrip dividend payable in respect of the same period on the B Shares is paid in full. 14 