ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report on Form 10-K, the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its other SEC filings, its press releases, and its other written and oral statements throughout the year may contain forward-looking statements which may be recognized by the use of terms such as “estimate,” “project,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “hope,” and similar expressions. All forward-looking statements are based on information available and the Company’s expectations at the time they are made, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s ability to continue to grow depends on its success in developing and marketing products that incorporate technological advances. The immunodiagnostic industry is characterized by continual technological innovation that requires the Company to dedicate significant resources to the development of new products that incorporate technological advances. The Company’s future growth depends on its ability to keep abreast of technological innovations and to successfully incorporate them into new products. The development and release of new products is subject to many risks and uncertainties, such as unforeseen costs, technical difficulties, and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to market the 8 Table of Contents products, particularly in the United States. In addition, the ability to introduce new products and to continue marketing existing products may be affected by patents and other intellectual property held by others. The Company is dependent on a sole supplier for a key component of the reagents used on the IMMULITE system. The Company purchases certain chemical compounds that are key components in the IMMULITE system from Lumigen, the sole supplier of these chemical compounds. The Company has the non-exclusive rights to use these chemical compounds for the duration of the underlying patents. The Company’s business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if Lumigen was unable to meet the Company’s supply requirements. In such an event, there is no assurance that the Company would be able to obtain alternative components that have the same performance characteristics or that the costs of such alternatives would not exceed the amounts charged by Lumigen. The Company’s products and operations are subject to regulation by various U.S. federal, state and foreign agencies and a violation of such regulations could adversely affect the Company. Most of the Company’s products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and various other federal, state and foreign governmental agencies. While most of the Company’s products are subject to the FDA’s pre-market notification procedure, approximately 10% of its products are subject to the more lengthy and in-depth FDA pre-marketing approval requirements. The Company’s manufacturing facilities in the United States and the United Kingdom are licensed by the FDA and must be operated in conformance with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company is also subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and controlled drugs and pharmaceuticals. These regulations increase the time, difficulty and costs associated with product development and production. The failure to comply with these regulations can result in delay in obtaining authorization to sell products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture or sell products, and other civil or criminal sanctions. For example, from February 2004 to September 2005, the Company was subject to the FDA’s Application Integrity Policy (“AIP”), during which time the FDA would not review any test kit applications submitted by the Company. The Company’s inability to introduce new kits during 2005 may have negatively impacted sales in 2005. See “Item 1. Business-Government Regulation” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Company’s ability to compete depends in part on its ability to protect its intellectual property. The Company owns or licenses various United States and non-U.S. patents and has patent applications pending around the world. In addition, it owns a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. Further, the Company licenses certain intellectual property rights from third parties. The Company’s ability to compete depends in part on its ability to maintain the proprietary nature of its owned and licensed intellectual property. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection offered by the various patents, the likelihood that patents will be issued on pending patent applications, or, with regard to the licensed intellectual property, that the licenses will not be terminated. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not develop around the patented aspects of any of its current or proposed products, independently develop technology or know-how that is the same as or competitive with the Company’s technology and know-how or otherwise obtain access to its intellectual property. If the Company is unable to maintain the proprietary nature of its intellectual property and its significant current or proposed products, its revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company’s profit margins and business approach may be adversely affected by potential healthcare reform. Healthcare reform and the growth of managed care organizations have been considerable forces in the diagnostics industry. These forces continue to place constraints on the levels of overall pricing and thus could have a material adverse effect on the profit margins of the Company’s products. Such continuing changes in the worldwide healthcare market could also force the Company to alter its approach to selling, marketing, distributing and servicing its customer base. Changes to government reimbursement policies could reduce the funding that healthcare service providers have available for diagnostic product expenditures, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s sales and/or profit margins. The Company’s foreign operations, which have accounted for approximately 70% of revenues, are subject to various risks. The Company sells its products throughout the world through consolidated and independent distributors and maintains a manufacturing facility in Wales. These foreign operations are subject to various risks, including exposure to currency fluctuations, political and economic instability, and trade restrictions. Because the Company’s consolidated foreign distributors’ sales are in their respective local currencies, the Company’s consolidated financial results are affected by foreign currency translation adjustments. 9 Table of Contents In addition, the Company’s foreign business practices are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which makes illegal any payments to foreign officials or employees of foreign governments that are intended to induce them to use their influence to assist the Company or to gain any improper advantage for the Company. In May 2005, the Company paid $4.8 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice to settle their investigations into improper payments by the Company’s Chinese subsidiary, and the Chinese subsidiary pled guilty to violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. As part of the settlement, the SEC issued a cease and desist order and the Company agreed to take certain actions, including engaging an independent monitor for its FCPA compliance program. A violation of the Company’s settlement agreements with these agencies or with the cease and desist order could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. Significant interruptions in production at the Company’s two principal manufacturing facilities would adversely affect its business and operating results. Approximately 70% of the Company’s test kit production is conducted at its Los Angeles, California manufacturing facility and final assembly of all of the IMMULITE instruments occurs at its New Jersey facility. The Company’s global supply of these products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. The operation of these facilities could be adversely affected by power failures, natural or other disasters such as earthquakes, floods or hurricanes, or terrorist threats. Although the Company has obtained insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any significant interruption in the Company’s manufacturing capabilities would materially and adversely affect its operating results. Changes in accounting standards and other regulatory requirements can have a material effect on the Company’s reported financial results. As a publicly traded company, the Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting standards promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Changes in these rules, regulations and accounting standards can have a significant effect on how the Company prepares its financial statements and other reports filed with various agencies and the costs incurred in complying with these requirements. For example, the Company’s audit fees in 2004 more than tripled compared to 2003 due to requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In accordance with SFAS No. 123R issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, beginning with the first quarter of 2006, the Company will be required to expense the fair value of its employee stock options, resulting in lower reported earnings and earnings per share compared to prior periods. The Company cannot predict the impact that new accounting standards yet to be issued or other requirements that may be adopted in the future may have on the Company’s financial results or stock price. The Company’s failure to compete with other manufacturers in the highly competitive immunodiagnostics industry could harm its ability to retain existing customers and obtain future business. The immunodiagnostic industry is highly competitive and the Company encounters competition from numerous domestic and international manufacturers. It competes on a worldwide basis with a number of large corporations that sell diversified lines of products and that have greater financial, human and other resources than it does. The Company’s relative size in the industry and the fact that it does do not offer a diversified product line at times puts it at a competitive disadvantage. Business combinations among its competitors may also increase competition and the resources available to its competitors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 10 Table of Contents 