ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Company’s securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties as described below together with all of the information included herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could suffer, possibly materially. In that event, the trading price of the Company’s common stock or other securities could decline. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ substantially from those discussed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally The Company’s financial performance generally is dependent upon the business environment in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market and the United States as a whole. In particular, the current environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, strong business earnings, and other factors. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. 15 Table of Contents The suburban metropolitan Chicago market and the United States as a whole has gone through a prolonged downward economic cycle from 2007 through 2009. Significant weakness in market conditions adversely impacted all aspects of the economy including the Company’s business. In particular, dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of construction loans, which resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced, and local governments and many businesses experienced serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, unemployment increased significantly during that period. The business environment was adverse for many households and businesses in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, United States, and worldwide. Overall, during the past two years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on the Company’s business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. However, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the economy began to show signs of recovery, as evidenced by an increase in consumer spending and stabilization of the labor market, the housing sector, and financial markets. However, unemployment levels remained elevated, housing prices remained depressed, and demand for housing was weak due to distressed sales and tightened lending standards. Consequently, notwithstanding preliminary signs of recovery, there can be no assurance that the economic conditions in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market and the United States will improve in the near term. Furthermore, a worsening of economic conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. Continued market stress could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the Company’s loans, and therefore, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings. Such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. 16 Table of Contents The Company Is Subject To Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or continuing weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. Continuing economic weakness on real estate and related markets could further increase the Company’s lending risk as it relates to its commercial real estate loan portfolio and the value of the underlying collateral. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2009, 83.2% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are typically larger loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loans” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans. The Company’s Reserve For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient The Company maintains a reserve for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The reserve, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the reserve reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the reserve for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make estimates of significant credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the reserve for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s reserve for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the reserve for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the reserve for loan losses. Any increases in the reserve for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Reserve for Loan Losses” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the reserve for loan losses. Real Estate Market Volatility and Future Changes in Disposition Strategies Could Result in Net Proceeds that Differ Significantly from Other Real Estate Owned (“OREO”) Fair Value Appraisals The Company’s OREO portfolio consists of properties that it obtained through foreclosure in satisfaction of loans. OREO properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties served as collateral or estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining fair value an 17 Table of Contents orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced during 2008 and 2009. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Company may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its OREO disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the fair value of the Company’s OREO properties. The Company’s Estimate of Fair Values for Its Investments May Not Be Realizable If It Were to Sell These Securities Today As of December 31, 2009, 99.8% of the Company’s available-for-sale securities were carried at fair value. Accounting standards require the Company to categorize these according to fair value valuation hierarchy. Ninety-nine percent of these were categorized in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy (meaning that their fair value was determined by quoted prices for similar assets or other observable inputs). The remaining were categorized as level 3 (meaning that their fair value was determined by inputs that are unobservable in the market and therefore require a greater degree of management judgment). The determination of fair value for securities categorized in level 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. The current market disruptions make valuation even more difficult and subjective. The Company has historically placed a high level of reliance on information obtained from third-party sources to measure fair values. For certain of its securities, the Company uses a structured credit valuation firm to perform cash flow projections using various historical and market inputs. For other securities, third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments, and estimates in determining securities values, and different third parties use different methodologies or provide different prices for similar securities. In addition, the nature of the business of the third party source that is valuing the securities at any given time could impact the valuation of the securities. Consequently, the ultimate sales price for any of these securities could vary significantly from the recorded fair value at December 31, 2009, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction. Turmoil in the Financial Markets Could Result in Lower Fair Values for the Company’s Investment Securities Major disruptions in the capital markets experienced in the past year have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities and resulted in volatility in the fair values of the Company’s investment securities. Significant prolonged reduced investor demand could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment. Such impairment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject To Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and could materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the 18 Table of Contents Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Investment in Bank Owned Life Insurance May Decline in Value The Company currently has bank owned life insurance contracts with a cash surrender value (“CSV”) of $198.0 million. A majority of these contracts are separate account contracts. Such contracts are supported by underlying investments whose fair values are subject to volatility in the market. The Company has limited its risk of loss in value of the securities by putting in place stable value contracts that provide protection from a decline in fair value down to 80% of the CSV of the insurance policies. To the extent fair values on individual contracts fall below 80% of book value, the CSV of specific contracts may be reduced or the underlying assets transferred to short-duration investments, resulting in lower earnings. Given the decline in the market during 2008, the Company transferred certain assets underlying specific separate contracts to money market accounts. However, the Company may, in order to increase future returns on investment, redeploy underlying assets into investments subject to higher volatility. Currently, the fair value for all contracts exceeds 80% of book value, but continued turmoil in the market could result in declines that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Be Adversely Affected By the Soundness Of Other Financial Institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon liquidation or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Operates In A Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets where the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, further illiquidity in the credit markets, and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance, and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: • Developing, maintaining, and building long-term customer relationships; 19 Table of Contents • Expanding the Company’s market position; • Offering products and services at prices and with the features that meet customers’ needs and demands; • Introducing new products and services; • Maintaining a satisfactory level of customer service; and • Anticipating and adjusting to changes in industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject the Company to Additional Risks From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products or services within existing lines of business. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company Is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, FDIC funds, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. In response to the recent financial crisis, the U.S. government is considering numerous legislative and administrative proposals sponsored by various members of Congress and the Presidential Administration relating to long-term regulatory reform of the financial markets. In some cases the proposals include a radical overhaul of the regulation of financial institutions or limitations on the products they offer. Many of these proposals would impose stricter capital and prudential standards, reporting, disclosure and business operation requirements on banks and financial institutions. Accordingly, it is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the near future. The regulations or regulatory policies that are eventually adopted and applicable to the Company may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of those policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to the Company’s reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. 20 Table of Contents See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business,” and Note 20 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Form 10-K. Overdraft Regulation Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company The Federal Reserve has amended Regulation E (Electronic Fund Transfers) effective July 1, 2010 to require consumers to opt in, or affirmatively consent, to the institution’s overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions, before overdraft fees may be assessed on the account. Consumers will also be provided a clear disclosure of the fees and terms associated with the institution’s overdraft service. Such change could adversely affect the level of the Company’s overdraft fees. Rapidly Implemented Legislative and Regulatory Actions Could Have an Unanticipated and Adverse Effect on the Company In response to the recent financial market crisis, the United States government, specifically the Treasury, Federal Reserve, and FDIC, working in cooperation with foreign governments and other central banks, has taken a variety of extraordinary measures designed to restore confidence in the financial markets and to strengthen financial institutions. The rulemaking relating to these measures was accomplished on a rapid emergency basis in order to address immediate concerns about the stability and continued existence of the global financial system. Recovery programs were rapidly proposed, adopted, and sometimes quickly abandoned in response to changing market conditions and other concerns. The speed of market developments required the government to abandon its traditional pattern and timeline of legislative and regulatory rulemaking, and issue rules on an interim basis without prior notice and comment. Rulemaking in this manner rather than through the traditional legislative practice does not allow for input by regulated financial institutions, such as the Company, and could lead to uncertainty in the financial markets, disruption to the Company’s business, increased costs, and material adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Short-Term and Long-Term Impact of the New Basel II Capital Standards and the Forthcoming New Capital Rules to be Proposed for Non-Basel II U.S. Banks is Uncertain Basel II refers to the results/pronouncements issued by an international committee formed to create an international standard that banking regulators can use when creating regulations about how much capital banks need to put aside to guard against financial and operational risks. The name comes from Basel, Switzerland, the city in which the main international organization, The Bank for International Settlements, is located. Basel II was issued in 2004 and is an update of an earlier accord, Basel I. The concept is to address minimum capital requirements, supervisory review, and market discipline. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short-term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative approach for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. The Level of the Commercial Real Estate Loan Portfolio May Subject the Company to Additional Regulatory Scrutiny The FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by 21 Table of Contents multifamily and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development, and other land loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The joint guidance requires heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment, and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. The Company’s Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, or other systems. The Company has policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its systems. However, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Dependent Upon Outside Third Parties for Processing and Handling of Company Records and Data The Company relies on software developed by third party vendors to process various Company transactions. In some cases, the Company has contracted with third parties to run its proprietary software on behalf of the Company. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, trust record keeping, loan and deposit processing, merchant processing, and securities portfolio management. While the Company performs a review of controls instituted by the vendor over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs its own testing of user controls, the Company must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, the Company maintains backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, the Company may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct its business or process its transactions, or incur damage to its reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving customers better, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and that create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Company may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly, which could reduce its ability to effectively compete. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject To Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its 22 Table of Contents fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal action are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Consumers and Businesses May Decide Not to Use Banks to Complete Their Financial Transactions Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This could result in the loss of fee income as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s loan underwriting and monitoring process, internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Financial Services Companies Depend Upon the Accuracy and Completeness of Information About Customers and Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company and Its Subsidiaries Are Subject To Examinations and Challenges by Taxing Authorities In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are routinely subjected to examinations and challenges from federal and state taxing authorities regarding tax positions taken by the Company and the determination of the amount of tax due. These examinations may relate to income, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property, sales and use, or other tax returns filed, or not filed, by the Company. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the amount of taxes due, and may result in the imposition of penalties and interest. If any such challenges are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company and Its Subsidiaries May Not Be Able To Realize the Benefit of Deferred Tax Assets The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The deferred tax assets can be recognized in future periods dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to realize the asset through 23 Table of Contents carryback or carryforward to taxable income in prior or future years, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the possible application of future tax planning strategies. If the Company is not able to recognize deferred tax assets in future periods, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company and Its Subsidiaries Are Subject To Changes in Federal and State Tax Laws and Changes in Interpretation of Existing Laws The Company’s financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company and Its Subsidiaries Are Subject To Changes in Accounting Principles, Policies, or Guidelines The Company’s financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies, and guidelines. Changes in these are continuously occurring, and given the current economic environment, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most activities the Company engages in can be intense, and the Company may not be able to hire people or retain them. Participation in the CPP could also affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain skilled people. Due to the Company’s participation in the CPP, the Company is subject to executive compensation limitations, which may not apply to other financial institutions. The unexpected loss of services of certain of the Company’s skilled personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company Is a Bank Holding Company and Its Sources of Funds Are Limited The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Company’s ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Company in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if the proposed dividend is in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, the Company’s right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, including depositors, which will take priority except to the extent the Company may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s subsidiaries had deposits and other liabilities of $6.8 billion. The Company Could Experience an Unexpected Inability to Obtain Needed Liquidity Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current 24 Table of Contents financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets, and its access to alternative sources of funds. The Company seeks to ensure its funding needs are met by maintaining a level of liquidity through asset and liability management. If the Company becomes unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact the Company’s Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, reduce the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Managing Reputational Risk Is Important To Attracting and Maintaining Customers, Investors, and Employees Threats to the Company’s reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. The Company has policies and procedures in place that seek to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct. Nonetheless, negative publicity may arise regarding the Company’s business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, and could result in the loss of customers, investors, and employees; costly litigation; a decline in revenues; and increased governmental regulation. Future Acquisitions May Disrupt the Company’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value In addition to generating internal growth, in the past the Company has strategically acquired banks or branches of other banks. The Company may consider future acquisitions to supplement internal growth opportunities. Acquiring other banks or branches involves potential risks, including: • Exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired banks; • Exposure to asset quality issues of acquired banks; • Disruption of the Company’s business; • Loss of key employees and customers of acquired banks; • Short-term decrease in profitability; • Diversion of management’s time and attention; • Issues arising during transition and integration; and • Dilution in the ownership percentage of holdings of the Company’s common stock. The Company from time to time may evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Competition for Acquisition Candidates Is Intense Competition for acquisitions is intense. Numerous potential acquirors compete with the Company for acquisition candidates. The Company may not be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable targets, which could slow the Company’s growth rate. The Company May Engage in FDIC-Assisted Transactions, Which Could Present Additional Risks To Its Business In the current economic environment, the Company may be presented with opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks such as sharing in exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are for failing banks and structured in a manner that would not allow the Company the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition (including preparing for integration of an acquired institution), the Company may face additional risks if it engages in FDIC-assisted transactions. The assets the Company would acquire would be more troubled than in a typical acquisition. The deposits the Company would assume would generally be higher priced than in a typical acquisition and therefore subject to higher attrition. Integration could be more difficult in this type of acquisition than in a typical acquisition since key staff would have departed. Any inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to achieve its business strategy and maintain its market value and profitability. Moreover, even if the Company is inclined to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction, the Company can only participate in the bid process if it receives approval of bank regulators. There can be no assurance that the Company will be allowed to participate in the bid process, or what the terms of such transaction might be or whether the Company would be successful in acquiring the bank or targeted assets. The Company may be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. Furthermore, to the extent the Company is allowed to, and chooses to, participate in FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company may face competition from other financial institutions with respect to proposed FDIC-assisted transactions. To the extent that our competitors are selected to participate in FDIC-assisted transactions, our ability to identify and attract acquisition candidates and/or make acquisitions on favorable terms may be adversely affected. Failure to Comply with the Terms of Loss Sharing Arrangements with the FDIC May Result in Significant Losses, and the Company May Become Dependant Upon Third Party Vendors in Connection with FDIC-Assisted Transactions On October 23, 2009, the Bank entered into a Purchase and Assumption Agreement and Loss Share Agreement with the FDIC, under which the Bank assumed all deposits and certain identified assets and liabilities of the former First DuPage Bank. Under the Loss Share Agreement, the FDIC will reimburse the Bank for a portion of losses arising from loan assets of the former First DuPage, specifically 80% of losses of up to $65.0 million with respect to the entire $146.3 million acquired loan portfolio, and 95% of losses in excess of $65.0 million. The Purchase and Assumption Agreement and the Loss Share agreement have specific and detailed compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. The Company has engaged a third party loan servicing vendor to administer the assets subject to this loss share arrangement, and may engage this or another vendor to provide similar services in the future if the Company engages in future FDIC-assisted transactions. As a result, the Company is, and may increasingly be dependant upon this vendor to provide key services to the Bank. While the Company carefully selected this or another vendor, the Company may not control its actions. Any failure by the vendor to comply with the terms of any loss share arrangement the Bank has with the FDIC, or to properly 26 Table of Contents service the loans and OREO covered by any loss share arrangement, may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for reimbursement to the Bank from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated and could adversely affect the Company’s business or financial condition. Furthermore, in the event the Bank engages in additional FDIC-assisted transactions with loss sharing arrangements, the Company’s dependence on this vender could increase. The services provided by this vendor are unique and not provided by many vendors either locally or nationwide. As a result, the Company’s ability to replace this vendor if it so chooses could entail significant delay, expense, and risk to the Company, its business operations, and financial condition. Decline In the Company’s Stock Price Could Require a Write-down of Some Portion or All of the Company’s Goodwill If the Company’s stock price declines and remains low for an extended period of time, the Company could be required to write off all or a portion of its goodwill, which represents the value in excess of the Company’s tangible book value. Such write off would reduce earnings in the period in which it is recorded. The Company’s stock price is subject to market conditions that can be impacted by forces outside of the control of management, such as a perceived weakness in financial institutions in general, and may not be a direct result of the Company’s performance. A write-down of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Future Growth or Operating Results May Require the Company to Raise Additional Capital But that Capital May Not Be Available or It May Be Dilutive The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Company’s future operating results erode capital or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Company’s ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company’s ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Any Reduction in the Company’s Credit Ratings Could Increase Its Financing Costs Various rating agencies publish credit ratings for the Company’s debt obligations, based on their evaluations of a number of factors, some of which relate to Company performance and some of which relate to general industry conditions. Management routinely communicates with each rating agency and anticipates the rating agencies will closely monitor the Company’s performance and update their ratings from time to time during the year. The Company cannot give any assurance that its current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings may adversely affect its borrowing costs and its ability to borrow or raise capital, and may adversely affect the Company’s reputation. The Company currently is rated “BBB-” by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., “Baa1” by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., and “BBB” by Fitch, Inc. 27 Table of Contents Risks Associated With the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s Stock Price Can Be Volatile Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • Recommendations by securities analysts; • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; • New technology used or services offered by competitors; • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint venture, or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • Changes in government regulations; and • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The Trading Volume In the Company’s Common Stock Is Less Than That Of Other Larger Financial Services Institutions Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market Exchange, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the Company’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales could cause the Company’s common stock price to fall. An Investment In the Company’s Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-Laws, and Amended and Restated Rights Agreement As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have An Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and the Company’s Amended and Restated Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by the Company’s stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. 28 Table of Contents The Company May Issue Additional Securities, Which Could Dilute the Ownership Percentage of Holders of the Company’s Common Stock The Company may issue additional securities to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options, and, if it does, the ownership percentage of holders of the Company’s common stock could be diluted. The Company’s Participation in the CPP May Adversely Affect the Value of Its Common Stock and the Rights of Its Common Stockholders The rights of the holders of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected by the Company’s participation in the CPP. For example: • Prior to the earlier of December 5, 2011 and the date on which all of the Preferred Shares have been redeemed by the Company or transferred by Treasury to third parties, the Company may not, without the consent of Treasury, subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase, or otherwise acquire shares of the Company’s common stock or preferred stock. • The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock unless it has fully paid all required dividends on the Preferred Shares. Although the Company fully expects to be able to pay all required dividends on the Preferred Shares, there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so. • As long as the Treasury owns the securities purchased from the Company under the CPP, the Company may not, without the prior consent of the Treasury, increase the quarterly dividends it pays on its common stock above $0.31 per share. • The Preferred Shares will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company. • The ownership interest of the existing holders of the Company’s common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant the Company issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Preferred Shares is exercised. In addition, terms of the Preferred Shares require that quarterly dividends be paid on the Preferred Shares at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by First Midwest. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash the Company otherwise has available to pay dividends on its common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. The Company Has Not Established a Minimum Dividend Payment Level, and It Cannot Assure You of Its Ability to Pay Dividends in the Future On March 16, 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors announced a reduction in the Company’s quarterly common stock dividend from $0.225 per share to $0.01 per share. The Company does not have any plans to increase its quarterly dividend in the near future, and any increase may require regulatory approval. In addition, the Company may not pay dividends on its common stock unless it has paid dividends on the CPP Preferred Stock. The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level, and the amount of its dividend may fluctuate. All dividends will be made at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend upon the Company’s earnings, financial condition, and such other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. The Company’s Board of Directors may, in its discretion, further reduce or eliminate dividends or change its dividend policy in the future. In addition, the Federal Reserve has issued Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Letter SR-09-4, which requires bank holding companies to inform and consult with Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring 29 Table of Contents and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. Under this regulation, if the Company experiences losses in a series of consecutive quarters, it may be required to inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring or paying any dividends. In this event, there can be no assurance that the Company’s regulators will approve the payment of such dividends. All of the Company’s Debt Obligations and Senior Equity Securities will have Priority over the Company’s Common Stock with Respect to Payment in the Event of Liquidation, Dissolution, or Winding-Up and with Respect to the Payment of Dividends In any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of First Midwest, the Company’s common stock would rank below all debt claims against First Midwest and claims of all of the Company’s outstanding shares of preferred stock (including the CPP Preferred Stock) and other senior equity securities. As a result, holders of the Company’s common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of First Midwest until after all of the Company’s obligations to the Company’s debt holders have been satisfied and holders of senior equity securities have received any payment or distribution due to them. Offerings of Debt, Which Would be Senior to the Company’s Common Stock upon Liquidation, and/or Preferred Equity Securities, Which may be Senior to the Company’s Common Stock for Purposes of Dividend Distributions or upon Liquidation, may Adversely Affect the Market Price of the Company’s Common Stock The Company may attempt to increase the Company’s capital or, if the capital ratio of the Bank falls below the required minimums, the Company or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes, and preferred stock. The Company may also decide to raise additional capital by issuing debt or preferred equity securities for other reasons. Upon liquidation, holders of the Company’s debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of the Company’s available assets prior to the holders of the Company’s common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Company’s existing stockholders or reduce the market price of the Company’s common stock, or both. Holders of the Company’s common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The Company’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the Company’s common stock with respect to dividends or upon the Company’s dissolution, winding-up, and liquidation and other terms. If the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the Company’s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the Company’s common stock, the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock or the market price of the Company’s common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 