ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Company’s securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties as described below together with all of the information included herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could suffer, possibly materially. In that event, the trading price of the Company’s common stock or other securities could decline. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ substantially from those discussed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The Company’s financial performance generally is dependent upon the business environment in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the state of Illinois, and the U.S. as a whole. In particular, the current environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans as well as the value of collateral securing those loans. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, strong business earnings, and other factors. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. The suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the state of Illinois, and the U.S. as a whole has gone through a prolonged downward economic cycle from 2007 through 2010. Significant weakness in market conditions adversely impacted all aspects of the economy including the Company’s business. In particular, dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of construction loans, which resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced, and local governments and many businesses experienced serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, unemployment increased significantly during that period. The business environment was adverse for many households and businesses in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the state of Illinois, the U.S., and worldwide. During the past three years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on the Company’s business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Although the economy has shown slight indications of slow improvement, such as an increase in consumer spending and stabilization in the labor and financial markets, we expect only moderate improvement in these conditions in the near future. Currently, unemployment levels remain elevated, housing prices remain depressed, and demand for housing is weak due to distressed sales and tightened lending standards. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Continued market stress could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the Company’s loans, and therefore, its financial condition and results of operations as well as other potential adverse effects including: • There could be an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. • There could be an increase in write-downs of asset values by financial institutions including the Company. 19 Table of Contents • The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers could be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite credits become less predictive of future performance. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. This process includes forecasts of economic conditions and the impact of these economic conditions on borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. The process could no longer be capable of accurate estimation and may, in turn, impact its reliability. • The Bank could be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future if losses further deplete the DIF. • The Company could face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company’s business may be adversely affected in the future by the implementation of ongoing regulations regarding banks and financial institutions under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Company and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and will be the subject of further significant legislation in the future. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law The Dodd-Frank Act, which significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations and, consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. See the section titled “Supervision and Regulation in Item 1” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of several significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to address specific issues that contributed to the financial crisis and is heavily remedial in nature. Several provisions in the Act are applicable to larger institutions (greater than $10 billion in assets). Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company. However, compliance with this new law and its implementing regulations likely will result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these regulations include: • The Dodd-Frank Act requires new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust-preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company’s currently outstanding trust-preferred securities and TARP preferred stock will be grandfathered and its currently outstanding TARP preferred securities will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. • The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which will be housed in the Federal Reserve. The CFPB will be independent from the Federal Reserve, and it will have a separate budget. The CFPB has rulemaking authority to promulgate regulations regarding 20 Table of Contents consumer financial products and services offered by all banks and thrifts, their affiliates, and many non-bank financial services firms. We cannot determine what the impact the CFPB’s rules and regulations might have on the Bank, its product offerings, its customers’ ability to purchase products to meet their specific needs, or the Bank’s general business practices, but they are likely to be significant given the CFPB’s broad powers. The CFPB will have examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. • The Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) with the primary obligation to identify, monitor, and assist in the management of systemic risk that may pose a threat to the country’s financial system. Included in its responsibilities is a requirement to review and, at its option, submit comments as appropriate to any standard-setting body, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), with respect to existing or proposed accounting principles, standards, or procedures. Though this responsibility may not directly impact the Company, the Council’s review and commentary on accounting matters may result in more consideration by standard-setters of the volatility created by some of its current and proposed standards. • The Dodd-Frank Act permanently implemented FDIC insurance coverage for all deposit accounts up to $250,000. Furthermore, the insurance premium assessment base is revised from all domestic deposits to the average of total assets less tangible equity. The minimum reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund is increased from 1.15% to 1.35%, with the increase to be covered by assessments on insured institutions with assets over $10 billion until the new reserve ratio is reached. We believe in the short-term, the change in the assessment base calculation may result in a reduced premium charge for the Company from its current charge, but may not result in a lower expense amount since the Company continues to grow its asset base and the FDIC is required to grow its reserves, which have been depleted during this recession. • The Dodd-Frank’s Act’s so-called “Durbin Amendment” requires the Federal Reserve Board to adopt regulations limiting interchange fees that can be charged in an electronic debit card transaction to the “reasonable and proportionate” costs related to the incremental cost of the transaction. Banks under $10 billion in assets are exempt, which would include the Company. The Federal Reserve Board has until July 2011 to complete its regulations, so the timing and ultimate extent of impact to the Company is unknown. • The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes the regulatory structure of the mortgage lending business, but, in effect, has codified the prudent and customer-focused activities the Company has always pursued. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act provides that a creditor must make a reasonable and good faith determination of a consumer’s ability to repay before making a residential mortgage loan. The determination must be based on verified and documented information and must take into account all applicable taxes, insurance, and assessments. This provision could add substantial burdens by requiring the establishment of an escrow account in connection with many 1-4 family mortgages for the payment of taxes and hazard insurance and, if applicable, flood insurance, mortgage insurance, ground rents, and any other required periodic payments or premiums with respect to the property or the loan terms. • The Dodd-Frank Act also modifies the calculation for a loan to be subject to “high-cost-loan” status under the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act by requiring the annual percentage rate to be compared to the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction and not the rate on U.S. Treasury securities having a comparable maturity. The points and fees trigger is lowered, and a prepayment fee trigger is added. • The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to require banks to compile and provide reports relating to its consumer lending, marketing, and other consumer business activities and to make that information available to the public if it is “in the public interest.” 21 Table of Contents • The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a modified version of the “Volcker Rule” and generally prohibits banks from engaging in proprietary trading or holding or obtaining an interest in a hedge fund or private equity fund, to the extent that it would exceed 3% of its Tier 1 capital. A bank’s interest in any single hedge fund or private equity fund may not exceed 3% of the assets of that fund. Currently it is unclear if some separate-account bank-owned life insurance (“BOLI”) policies may be included in the definitions of “hedge fund” and “private equity fund,” given their frequent exemption from registration under section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company like many other financial institutions uses separate-account BOLI permanent life insurance policies to finance the Company’s employee benefit liabilities. By subjecting separate account BOLI to the Volcker Rule, we could face a significant financial burden as a result of being required to sell the Company’s interests in its separate-account BOLI policies. • The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes banks to pay interest on business checking accounts, which is likely to significantly increase the Company’s interest expense. • The Dodd-Frank Act adopts various mortgage lending and predatory lending provisions, which will likely have a significant impact on the Company’s administrative expense associated with these lines of business. • The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators jointly to prescribe regulations mandating that financial institutions with more than $1 billion in assets to disclose to their regulators their incentive compensation plans to permit the regulators to determine whether the plans provide executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders with excessive compensation, fees or benefits; or could lead to material financial loss to the institution. The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings. Such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. The Company is subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities and underwriting and documentation controls cannot mitigate all credit risk, especially those outside the Company’s control. These risks include the 22 Table of Contents impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the U.S. Increases in interest rates and/or continuing weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. In particular, continuing economic weakness on real estate and related markets could further increase the Company’s lending risk as it relates to its commercial real estate loan portfolio and the value of the underlying collateral. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2010, 82.6% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are typically larger loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loan Portfolio and Credit Quality” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans. Continued deterioration in the real estate market could result in loans that we have restructured to become delinquent and classified as non-accrual loans. At December 31, 2010, impaired loans included $22.4 million in restructured loans still accruing interest. Restructured loans are loans for which the original contractual terms have been modified, including forgiveness of principal or interest, due to deterioration in the borrower’s financial condition. Loan modifications are generally performed at the request of the individual borrower and may include reduction in interest rates, changes in payments, and maturity date extensions. A further decline in the economic conditions in the Company’s general market areas or other factors could adversely impact borrowers with restructured loans and cause borrowers to become delinquent or otherwise default or call into question their ability to repay full interest and principal in accordance with the restructured terms. Failure to comply with the restructured terms would result in the restructured loan being reclassified as non-accrual, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s lending activities are subject to strict regulations. The Company is subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s allowance for credit losses may be insufficient. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses (“allowance”), which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; credit loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make estimates of significant credit risks and future trends, all of which 23 Table of Contents may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for credit losses. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Allowance for Credit Losses” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses. Real estate market volatility and future changes in disposition strategies could result in net proceeds that differ significantly from fair value appraisals of loan collateral and other real estate owned (“OREO”) and could negatively impact the Company’s operating performance. Many of the Company’s non-performing real estate loans are collateral-dependent, meaning the repayment of the loan is largely dependent upon the successful operation of the property securing the loan. For collateral-dependent loans, we estimate the value of the loan based on appraised value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell. The Company’s OREO portfolio consists of properties that it obtained through foreclosure in satisfaction of loans. OREO properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties served as collateral or estimated value, less estimated selling costs. In determining the value of OREO properties and loan collateral, an orderly disposition of the property is generally assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. The disposition strategy the Company has in place for a loan will determine the appraised value it uses (e.g., “as-is”, “orderly liquidation”, “forced liquidation”). Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced during 2009 and 2010. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Company may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the value of the properties. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company’s estimate of fair values for its investments may not be realizable if it were to sell these securities today. The Company’s available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. Accounting standards require the Company to categorize these according to a fair value hierarchy. Over 98% of the Company’s available-for-sale securities were categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy (meaning that their fair values were determined by quoted prices for similar assets or other observable inputs). The remaining were categorized as level 3 (meaning that their fair values were determined by inputs that are unobservable in the market and therefore require a greater degree of management judgment). The determination of fair value for securities categorized in level 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. The current market disruptions make valuation even more difficult and subjective. Due to illiquidity in the secondary market for the Company’s level 3 securities, fair value of these securities is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses with the assistance of a structured credit valuation firm. Third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments, and estimates in determining securities values, and different third 24 Table of Contents parties use different methodologies or provide different prices for similar securities. In addition, the nature of the business of the third party source that is valuing the securities at any given time could impact the valuation of the securities. Consequently, the ultimate sales price for any of these securities could vary significantly from the recorded fair value at December 31, 2010, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction. Turmoil in the financial markets could result in lower fair values for the company’s investment securities. Major disruptions in the capital markets experienced in the past three years have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities and resulted in volatility in the fair values of the Company’s investment securities. Significant prolonged reduced investor demand could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Municipal securities can also be impacted by the business environment of their geographic location. Although this type of security has historically experienced extremely low default rates, municipal securities are subject to systemic risk since cash flows are generally dependent upon (i) the ability of the issuing authority to levy and collect taxes or (ii) the ability of the issuer to charge for and collect payment for essential services rendered. If the issuer defaults on its payments, it may result in the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment or total loss, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and could materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s investment in bank owned life insurance may decline in value. The Company has bank owned life insurance contracts with a cash surrender value (“CSV”) of $197.6 million as of December 31, 2010. A majority of these contracts are separate account contracts. These contracts are supported by underlying investments whose fair values are subject to volatility in the market. The Company has limited its risk of loss in value of the securities by putting in place stable value contracts that provide protection from a decline in fair value down to 80% of the CSV of the insurance policies. To the extent fair values on individual contracts fall below 80% of book value, the CSV of specific contracts may be reduced or the underlying assets transferred to short-duration investments, resulting in lower earnings. Given the decline in the market during 2008, the Company transferred certain assets underlying specific separate contracts to money market accounts. However, the Company may, in order to increase future returns on investment, redeploy underlying assets into investments subject to higher volatility. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value for all contracts exceeds 80% of book value, but turmoil in the market could result in declines that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions 25 Table of Contents with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon liquidation or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets where the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, further illiquidity in the credit markets, and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance, and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: • Developing, maintaining, and building long-term customer relationships; • Expanding the Company’s market position; • Offering products and services at prices and with the features that meet customers’ needs and demands; • Introducing new products and services; • Maintaining a satisfactory level of customer service; and • Anticipating and adjusting to changes in industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products or services within existing lines of business. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, FDIC funds, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of those policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to the Company’s reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business,” and Note 19 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Form 10-K. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase the Company’s interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on business demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could begin offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. The Company does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. If the Company begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, the Company’s interest expense would increase and its net interest margin would decrease. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Overdraft regulation could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Federal Reserve amended Regulation E (Electronic Fund Transfers) effective July 1, 2010 to require consumers to opt in, or affirmatively consent, to the institution’s overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions, before overdraft fees may be assessed on the account. Consumers were provided a clear disclosure of the fees and terms associated with the institution’s overdraft service. Such change could adversely affect the level of the Company’s overdraft fees and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Rapidly implemented legislative and regulatory actions could have an unanticipated and adverse effect on the Company. In response to the recent financial market crisis, the U.S. government, specifically the Treasury, Federal Reserve, and FDIC, working in cooperation with foreign governments and other central banks, has taken a variety of extraordinary measures designed to restore confidence in the financial markets and to strengthen financial institutions. The rulemaking relating to these measures was accomplished on a rapid emergency basis in order to address immediate concerns about the stability and continued existence of the global financial system. Recovery programs were rapidly proposed, adopted, and sometimes quickly abandoned in response to changing market conditions and other concerns. The speed of market developments required the government to abandon its traditional pattern and timeline of legislative and regulatory rulemaking, and issue rules on an interim basis 27 Table of Contents without prior notice and comment. Rulemaking in this manner rather than through the traditional legislative practice does not allow for input by regulated financial institutions, such as the Company, and could lead to uncertainty in the financial markets, disruption to the Company’s business, increased costs, and material adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The form of final rules implementing Basel II capital standards for smaller financial institutions are uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on such financial institutions and the financial industry. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new capital accord (“Basel II”) to replace Basel I. Basel II provides two approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk: (i) an internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances; and (ii) a standardized approach that bases risk weightings on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in existing risk-based capital guidelines. Basel II also sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures. A final rule for implementing the advanced approaches of Basel II in the U.S., which applies only to certain large or internationally active banking organizations, or “core banks” – defined as those with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more – became effective as of April 1, 2008. Other U.S. banking organizations can elect to adopt the requirements of this rule (if they meet applicable qualification requirements), but they are not required to apply them. The rule also allows a banking organization’s primary federal regulator to determine that the application of the rule would not be appropriate in light of the bank’s asset size, level of complexity, risk profile, or scope of operations. The Company is not required to comply with the advanced approaches of Basel II. In July 2008, the agencies issued a proposed rule that would give banking organizations that do not use the advanced approaches the option to implement a new risk-based capital framework, which would adopt the standardized approach of Basel II for credit risk, the basic indicator approach of Basel II for operational risk, and related disclosure requirements. While this proposed rule generally parallels the relevant approaches under Basel II, it diverges where U.S. markets have unique characteristics and risk profiles. Comments on the proposed rule were due to the agencies by October 2008, but a definitive final rule has not been issued. Consequently, it is unclear when and if final rules for the implementation of Basel II will be passed for smaller institutions and in what form. The impact they may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards, if adopted, are also unknown. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel III final framework on capital and liquidity ratio requirements is uncertain. The Basel III final framework introduces a new capital measure and specifies adjustments to the instruments that comprise Tier 1 capital. In addition, the Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. For a more detailed description of this proposal, refer to the section titled “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business” of this Form 10-K. The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that they expect to propose regulations implementing Basel III in mid-2011 with final adoption of implementing regulations in mid-2012. These new standards are subject to further rulemaking and their terms may well change before implementation. The resulting impact of Basel III on the Company’s capital and liquidity ratios and compliance costs is unknown, and could negatively affect the costs and availability of capital alternatives. The level of the commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real 28 Table of Contents estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development, and other land loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The joint guidance requires heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment, and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, or other systems. The Company has policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its systems. However, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is dependent upon outside third parties for processing and handling of Company records and data. The Company relies on software developed by third party vendors to process various Company transactions. In some cases, the Company has contracted with third parties to run its proprietary software on behalf of the Company. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, trust record keeping, loan and deposit processing, merchant processing, and securities portfolio management. While the Company performs a review of controls instituted by the vendor over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs its own testing of user controls, the Company must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, the Company maintains backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, the Company may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct its business or process its transactions, or incur damage to its reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. The Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions. This information could include financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Improper and fraudulent mortgage servicing and foreclosure documentation could result in liability for losses incurred by government-sponsored enterprises. Recent allegations of improper and fraudulent mortgage servicing and foreclosure documentation have been discovered at some of the nation’s largest lenders and have resulted in legal investigations into the foreclosure 29 Table of Contents practices of several financial institutions and their service providers and the suspension of foreclosures of single-family homes. In addition, Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) have indicated that their mortgage servicers will be held liable for losses incurred by the government-sponsored enterprises as a result of flawed foreclosure processes. Further, the Securities and Exchange Commission has issued a request for information about accounting and disclosure issues related to potential risks and costs associated with mortgage and foreclosure related activities. The Company has a centralized foreclosure process within a single department of the Bank, including foreclosures relating to all residential, home equity, commercial, and serviced loans. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank serviced $97.3 million in loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac as part of various securitization transactions. In addition, the Company engages a loan servicer to support the administration and the resolution of covered assets, including single-family covered assets acquired by the Bank in FDIC-assisted transactions. Failure to comply with the applicable mortgage servicing and foreclosure requirements could have an adverse impact on the Company’s reputation and results of operations. The Company continually encounters technological change. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving customers better, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and that create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Company may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly, which could reduce its ability to effectively compete. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal action are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Consumers and businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This could result in the loss of fee income as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s loan underwriting and monitoring process, internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only 30 Table of Contents reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to examinations and challenges by taxing authorities. In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are routinely subjected to examinations and challenges from federal and state taxing authorities regarding tax positions taken by the Company and the determination of the amount of tax due. These examinations may relate to income, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property, sales and use, or other tax returns filed, or not filed, by the Company. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the amount of taxes due, and may result in the imposition of penalties and interest. If any such challenges are not resolved in the Company’s favor, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries may not be able to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The deferred tax assets can be recognized in future periods dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to realize the asset through carryback or carryforward to taxable income in prior or future years, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the possible application of future tax planning strategies. A valuation allowance is established for any deferred tax asset for which recovery or settlement is not more likely than not. Each quarter, the Company assesses its deferred tax asset position, including the recoverability of this asset or the need for a valuation allowance. This assessment takes into consideration positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that a portion of the asset will not be realized. If the Company is not able to recognize deferred tax assets in future periods, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in interpretation of existing laws. The Company’s financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in accounting principles, policies, or guidelines. The Company’s financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies, and guidelines. Changes in these are continuously occurring, and given the current economic environment, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most activities the Company engages in can be intense, and the Company may not be able to hire people or retain them. 31 Table of Contents Participation in the CPP could also affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain skilled people. Due to the Company’s participation in the CPP, the Company is subject to executive compensation limitations, which may not apply to other financial institutions. The unexpected loss of services of certain of the Company’s skilled personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company is a bank holding company and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Company’s ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Company in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if the proposed dividend is in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, the Company’s right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, including depositors, which will take priority except to the extent the Company may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s subsidiaries had deposits and other liabilities of $7.0 billion. The Company could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity. Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets, and its access to alternative sources of funds. The Company seeks to ensure its funding needs are met by maintaining a level of liquidity through asset and liability management. If the Company becomes unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, reduce the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors, and employees. Threats to the Company’s reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. The Company has policies and procedures in place that seek to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct. Nonetheless, negative publicity may arise regarding the Company’s business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, and could result in the loss of customers, investors, and employees; costly litigation; a decline in revenues; and increased governmental regulation. 32 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may disrupt the company’s business and dilute stockholder value. In addition to generating internal growth, in the past the Company has strategically acquired banks or branches of other banks. The Company may consider future acquisitions to supplement internal growth opportunities. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of sale, or expanded services. Acquiring other banks or branches involves potential risks that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s condition or results of operations, including: • Exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired banks; • Exposure to asset quality issues of acquired banks; • Disruption of the Company’s business; • Loss of key employees and customers of acquired banks; • Short-term decrease in profitability; • Diversion of management’s time and attention; • Issues arising during transition and integration; • Dilution in the ownership percentage of holdings of the Company’s common stock; • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; • Payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute the Company’s tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term; • Volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts; • Inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; and • Changes in banking or tax laws or regulations. The Company from time to time may evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Competition for acquisition candidates is intense. Competition for acquisitions is intense. Numerous potential acquirers compete with the Company for acquisition candidates. The Company may not be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable targets, which could slow the Company’s growth rate and have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete in its markets. The Company has engaged in FDIC-assisted transactions and may engage in future FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to its business. In the current economic environment, the Company may be presented with opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks such as sharing in exposure to credit losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are for failing banks and structured in a manner that would not allow the Company the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition (including preparing for integration of an acquired institution), the Company may face additional risks if it engages in FDIC-assisted 33 Table of Contents transactions. The assets the Company would acquire would be more troubled than in a typical acquisition. The deposits the Company would assume would generally be higher priced than in a typical acquisition and, therefore, subject to higher attrition. Integration could be more difficult in this type of acquisition than in a typical acquisition since key staff would have departed. Any inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to achieve its business strategy and maintain its market value and profitability. Moreover, even if the Company is inclined to participate in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company can only participate in the bid process if it receives approval of bank regulators. There can be no assurance that the Company will be allowed to participate in the bid process, or what the terms of such transaction might be or whether the Company would be successful in acquiring the bank or targeted assets. The Company may be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per common share and share ownership. Furthermore, to the extent the Company is allowed to, and chooses to, participate in FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company may face competition from other financial institutions with respect to proposed FDIC-assisted transactions. To the extent that our competitors are selected to participate in FDIC-assisted transactions, our ability to identify and attract acquisition candidates and/or make acquisitions on favorable terms may be adversely affected. Failure to comply with the terms of loss share agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses, and the Company may become dependent upon third party vendors in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Since October 2009, the Company has acquired the majority of the assets of three financial institutions in FDIC-assisted transactions. Most loans and OREO acquired in the acquisitions are covered by Purchase and Assumption Agreements and Loss Share Agreements with the FDIC (the “FDIC Agreements”). Under the FDIC Agreements, the FDIC will reimburse the Bank for a portion of losses arising from certain assets of the acquired institutions. The FDIC Agreements have specific and detailed compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. The Company has engaged a third party loan servicing vendor to administer a portion of the assets subject to the FDIC Agreements, and may engage this or another vendor to provide similar services in the future if the Company engages in future FDIC-assisted transactions. As a result, the Company is, and may increasingly be dependent upon this vendor to provide key services to the Bank. While the Company carefully selected this vendor, the Company may not control the vendor’s actions. Any failure by the vendor to comply with the terms of any loss share arrangement the Bank has with the FDIC, or to properly service the loans and OREO covered by any loss share arrangement, may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for reimbursement to the Bank from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated and could adversely affect the Company’s business or financial condition. Furthermore, in the event the Bank engages in additional FDIC-assisted transactions with loss share arrangements, the Company’s dependence on this vendor could increase. The services provided by this vendor are unique and not provided by many vendors either locally or nationwide. As a result, the Company’s ability to replace this vendor if it so chooses could entail significant delay, expense, and risk to the Company, its business operations, and financial condition. The Company may not realize all of the expected benefits of our FDIC-assisted transactions. Since October 2009, the Company has acquired the majority of the assets of three financial institutions in FDIC-assisted transactions. Most loans and OREO acquired in the acquisitions are covered by the FDIC Agreements. Although management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the acquired loans, 34 Table of Contents including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans associated with these transactions, our estimates of the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate. Valuing these assets using inaccurate assumptions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. In FDIC-assisted transactions that include loss-share agreements, we record an FDIC indemnification asset that reflects our estimate of the timing and amount of future losses that are anticipated to occur. In determining the size of the FDIC indemnification asset, we analyze the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. Changes in our estimate of the timing of those losses, specifically if those losses are to occur beyond the applicable loss-share periods, may result in impairments of the FDIC indemnification asset, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If our assumptions related to the timing or amount of expected losses are incorrect, there could be a negative impact on our operating results. Increases in the amount of future losses in response to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio may result in increased charge-offs. The value of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $291.4 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. If the Company’s stock price declines and remains low for an extended period of time, the Company could be required to write off all or a portion of its goodwill, which represents the value in excess of the Company’s tangible book value. The Company’s stock price is subject to market conditions that can be impacted by forces outside of the control of management, such as a perceived weakness in financial institutions in general, and may not be a direct result of the Company’s performance. In addition, a significant decline in the Company’s expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets. A write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would reduce earnings in the period in which it is recorded and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Regulatory requirements, future growth, or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the regulatory requirements change, the Company’s future operating results erode capital or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Company’s ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company’s ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Any reduction in the Company’s credit ratings could increase its financing costs. Various rating agencies publish credit ratings for the Company’s debt obligations, based on their evaluations of a number of factors, some of which relate to Company performance and some of which relate to general industry conditions. Management routinely communicates with each rating agency and anticipates the rating agencies will closely monitor the Company’s performance and update their ratings from time to time during the year. 35 Table of Contents The Company cannot give any assurance that its current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings may adversely affect its borrowing costs and its ability to borrow or raise capital, and may adversely affect the Company’s reputation. The Company’s current credit ratings are as follows: Rating Agency Rating Standard & Poor’s Rating Group, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. BBB - Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. Baa 1 Fitch, Inc. BBB - Risks Associated With the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • Recommendations by securities analysts; • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; • New technology used or services offered by competitors; • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint venture, or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • Changes in government regulations; and • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock is less than that of other larger financial services institutions. Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market Exchange, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the Company’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales could cause the Company’s common stock price to fall. An investment in the Company’s common stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common 36 Table of Contents stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company’s restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and amended and restated rights agreement as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and the Company’s Amended and Restated Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by the Company’s stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may issue additional securities, which could dilute the ownership percentage of holders of the Company’s common stock. The Company may issue additional securities to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options, and, if it does, the ownership percentage of holders of the Company’s common stock could be diluted. The Company’s participation in the CPP may adversely affect the value of its common stock and the rights of its common stockholders. The rights of the holders of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected by the Company’s participation in the CPP. For example: • Prior to the earlier of December 5, 2011 and the date on which all of the Preferred Shares have been redeemed by the Company or transferred by Treasury to third parties, the Company may not, without the consent of Treasury, subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase, or otherwise acquire shares of the Company’s common stock or preferred stock. • The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock unless it has fully paid all required dividends on the Preferred Shares. Although the Company fully expects to be able to pay all required dividends on the Preferred Shares, there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so. • As long as the Treasury owns the securities purchased from the Company under the CPP, the Company may not, without the prior consent of the Treasury, increase the quarterly dividends it pays on its common stock above $0.31 per share. • The Preferred Shares will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company. • The ownership interest of the existing holders of the Company’s common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant the Company issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Preferred Shares is exercised. In addition, terms of the Preferred Shares require that quarterly dividends be paid on the Preferred Shares at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by First Midwest. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash the Company otherwise has available to pay dividends on its common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. 37 Table of Contents The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level, and it cannot ensure its ability to pay dividends in the future. On March 16, 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors (“the Board”) announced a reduction in the Company’s quarterly common stock dividend from $0.225 per share to $0.01 per share. The Company does not have any plans to increase its quarterly dividend in the near future, and any increase may require regulatory approval. In addition, the Company may not pay dividends on its common stock unless it has paid dividends on the CPP Preferred Stock. The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level, and the amount of its dividend may fluctuate. All dividends will be made at the discretion of the Board and will depend upon the Company’s earnings, financial condition, and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant from time to time. The Board may, in its discretion, further reduce or eliminate dividends or change its dividend policy in the future. In addition, the Federal Reserve has issued Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Letter SR-09-4, which requires bank holding companies to inform and consult with Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. Under this regulation, if the Company experiences losses in a series of consecutive quarters, it may be required to inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring or paying any dividends. In this event, there can be no assurance that the Company’s regulators will approve the payment of such dividends. All of the Company’s debt obligations and senior equity securities will have priority over the Company’s common stock with respect to payment in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up and with respect to the payment of dividends. In any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of First Midwest, the Company’s common stock would rank below all debt claims against First Midwest and claims of all of the Company’s outstanding shares of preferred stock (including the CPP Preferred Stock) and other senior equity securities. As a result, holders of the Company’s common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of First Midwest until after all of the Company’s obligations to the Company’s debt holders have been satisfied and holders of senior equity securities have received any payment or distribution due to them. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to the Company’s common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to the Company’s common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may attempt to increase the Company’s capital or raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including trust-preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes, and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of the Company’s debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of the Company’s available assets prior to the holders of the Company’s common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Company’s existing stockholders or reduce the market price of the Company’s common stock, or both. Holders of the Company’s common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The Board is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the Company’s stockholders. The Board also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the Company’s common stock with respect to dividends or upon the Company’s dissolution, winding-up, and liquidation and other terms. If the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the Company’s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the Company’s common stock, the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock or the market price of the Company’s common stock could be adversely affected. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company does not have any unresolved comments pending with the SEC staff relating to comments received more than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year. 