ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in First Midwest Common Stock is subject to risks inherent in the Company's business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Company's securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties as described below, together with all of the information included herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's results of operations and financial condition could suffer, possibly materially. In that event, the trading price of the Company's Common Stock or other securities could decline. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ substantially from those discussed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to the Company's Business Interest Rate and Credit Risks The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company's earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income equals the difference between interest income and fees earned on interest-earning assets (such as loans and securities) and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowed funds). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest the Company earns on loans and securities and the amount of interest it incurs on deposits and borrowings. Such changes could also affect (i) the Company's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company's securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company's net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. 19 Table of Contents Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company's results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned "Net Interest Income" in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company's management of interest rate risk. The Company is subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company's lending activities. Underwriting and documentation controls cannot mitigate all credit risk, especially those outside the Company's control. These risks include the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates as well as those across the U.S. Increases in interest rates and/or continuing weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. In particular, continuing economic weakness in real estate and related markets could further increase the Company's lending risk as it relates to its commercial real estate loan portfolio and the value of the underlying collateral. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2011, 82.2% of the Company's loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans. The deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned "Loan Portfolio and Credit Quality" in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans. Real estate market volatility and future changes in disposition strategies could result in net proceeds that differ significantly from fair value appraisals of loan collateral and OREO and could negatively impact the Company's operating performance. Many of the Company's non-performing real estate loans are collateral-dependent, meaning the repayment of the loan is largely dependent upon the successful operation of the property securing the loan. For collateral-dependent loans, the Company estimates the value of the loan based on appraised value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell. The Company's OREO portfolio consists of properties acquired through foreclosure in partial or total satisfaction of certain loans as a result of borrower defaults. OREO is recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the property served as collateral or estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs. In determining the value of OREO properties and loan collateral, an orderly disposition of the property is generally assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. The disposition strategy the Company has in place for a loan will determine the appraised value it uses (e.g., "as-is", "orderly liquidation", or "forced liquidation"). Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Company may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the fair value of the properties. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The Company's lending activities are subject to strict regulations. The Company is subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. The Company's allowance for credit losses may be insufficient. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses ("allowance") at a level believed adequate to absorb estimated losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; credit loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective since it requires significant estimates and management judgment of credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of the Company's control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company's allowance and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned "Allowance for Credit Losses" in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company's process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. The Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions. This information could include financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Funding Risks The Company is a bank holding company and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Company's ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Company in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if the proposed dividend is in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, the Company's right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank's creditors, including depositors, which will take priority except to the extent the Company may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2011, the Company's subsidiaries had deposits and other liabilities of $6.8 billion. The Company could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity. Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current 21 Table of Contents financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets, and its access to alternative sources of funds. The Company seeks to ensure its funding needs are met by maintaining a level of liquidity through asset and liability management. If the Company becomes unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Loss of customer deposits could increase the Company's funding costs. The Company relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding. The Company competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If the Company's competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, the Company's funding costs may increase, either because the Company raises its rates to avoid losing deposits or because the Company loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs could reduce the Company's net interest margin and net interest income and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Any reduction in the Company's credit ratings could increase its financing costs. Various rating agencies publish credit ratings for the Company's debt obligations, based on their evaluations of a number of factors, some of which relate to Company performance and some of which relate to general industry conditions. Management routinely communicates with each rating agency and anticipates the rating agencies will closely monitor the Company's performance and update their ratings from time to time during the year. The Company cannot give any assurance that its current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Downgrades in the Company's credit ratings may adversely affect its borrowing costs and its ability to borrow or raise capital, and may adversely affect the Company's reputation. If the Company's debt ratings are downgraded below investment grade, the interest rate applicable to the Company's senior notes will be increased ratably depending upon each agency's rating, however, the aggregate amount of any increase shall not exceed 2.00 percentage points. The Company's current credit ratings are as follows: Rating Agency Rating Standard & Poor's Rating Group, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. BBB- Moody's Investor Services, Inc. Baa1 Fitch, Inc. BBB- Regulatory requirements, future growth, or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Company may be required to raise capital if regulatory requirements change, the Company's future operating results erode capital, or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition. The Company's ability to raise capital will depend upon conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company's financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company's ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Operational Risks The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in accounting principles, policies, or guidelines. The Company's financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies, and guidelines. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company's assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of the Company's accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the Company's financial statements are incorrect, it may experience material losses. See the section captioned "Critical Accounting Policies" in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company's critical accounting policies. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of the Company's external financial statements. These changes are beyond the Company's control, can be difficult to predict, and could materially impact how the Company reports its results of operations and financial condition. Changes in these standards are continuously occurring, and given the current economic environment, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's loan underwriting and monitoring process, internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Company's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which the Company engages can be intense, and the Company may not be able to hire people or retain them. The unexpected loss of services of certain of the Company's skilled personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company's market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers. The Company's business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of its key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of key employees with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. While the Company believes its relationships with its key personnel are strong, it cannot guarantee that all of its key personnel will remain with the organization. Loss of such key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of the Company's competitors, could result in the loss of some of its customers, which could have a negative impact on the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company's information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on internal and outsourced digital technologies, communications, and information systems to conduct its business. As the Company's reliance on technology systems has increased, so have the potential risks of a technology-related operation interruption (such as disruptions in the Company's customer 23 Table of Contents relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, or other systems) or the occurrence of a cyber incident (such as unauthorized access to the Company's systems). Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events including (i) gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruptions; (ii) causing denial-of-service attacks on websites; or (iii) intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information. The occurrence of operational interruption, cyber incident, or a deficiency in the cyber security of the Company's technology systems (internal or outsourced) could negatively impact the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company has policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its systems and maintains cyber security insurance. Significant interruptions to the Company's business could result in expensive remediation efforts and distraction of management. The Company has experienced certain immaterial cyber attacks or breaches (such as phishing and ATM skimming) and continues to invest in controls to prevent and mitigate further incidents. Although the Company has not experienced any material losses relating to a technology-related operational interruption or cyber attack, there can be no assurance that such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur in the future or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company's technology systems (internal or outsourced) could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of proprietary information, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or stock price. As cyber threats continue to evolve, the Company may also be required to spend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The Company is dependent upon outside third parties for processing and handling of Company records and data. The Company relies on software developed by third party vendors to process various Company transactions. In some cases, the Company has contracted with third parties to run its proprietary software on behalf of the Company. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, wealth management record keeping, loan and deposit processing, merchant processing, and securities portfolio management. While the Company performs a review of controls instituted by the vendor over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs its own testing of user controls, the Company must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, the Company maintains backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, the Company may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct its business or process its transactions, or incur damage to its reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Improper and fraudulent mortgage servicing and foreclosure documentation could result in liability for losses. The financial industry has identified circumstances of improper and fraudulent mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices and documentation, such as "robo signing," among some of the nation's largest lenders. This has resulted in lengthy legal investigations and lawsuits brought by the various state attorneys general relating to the foreclosure practices of several financial institutions and their service providers and the suspension of foreclosures of single-family homes nationwide, including the Bank's service areas. Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae") and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac") also have stated that their mortgage servicers will be held liable for losses incurred by the government-sponsored enterprises as a result of flawed foreclosure processes. Further, the SEC has issued a request for information about accounting and disclosure issues related to potential risks and costs associated with mortgage and foreclosure related activities. In February 2012, these lenders entered into a $25 billion joint state-federal agreement under which the lenders promise to send direct payments to people who were victims of foreclosure servicing abuse and adhere to certain servicing processes and procedures going forward. Homeowners that borrowed through Fannie Mae and Freddie 24 Table of Contents Mac, however, are not covered under the settlement. The Company was not a party to this litigation and is not a party to the joint settlement agreement. The Company has a centralized foreclosure process within a single department of the Bank, including foreclosures relating to all residential, home equity, commercial, and serviced loans. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank serviced $78.5 million in loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac as part of various securitization transactions. In addition, the Company engages a loan servicer to support the administration and the resolution of certain covered assets, including single-family covered assets acquired by the Bank in FDIC-assisted transactions. Failure to comply with the applicable mortgage servicing and foreclosure requirements could have an adverse impact on the Company's reputation and results of operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products or services within existing lines of business. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company continually encounters technological change. The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better meeting customer needs, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company's future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and that create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations. Many of the Company's competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Company may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly as its competitors, which could reduce its ability to effectively compete. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company's estimate of fair values for its investments may not be realizable if it were to sell these securities today. The Company's available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. Accounting standards require the Company to categorize these securities according to a fair value hierarchy. Less than one percent of the Company's available-for-sale securities were categorized in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy (meaning that the fair values were based on quoted market prices). Over 98% of the Company's available-for-sale securities were categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy (meaning that their fair values were determined by quoted prices for similar instruments or other observable inputs). The remaining securities were categorized as level 3 (meaning that their fair values were determined by inputs that are unobservable in the market and therefore require a greater degree of management judgment). The determination of fair value for securities categorized in level 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. The market disruptions in recent years made the valuation process even more difficult and subjective. Due to the illiquidity in the secondary market for the Company's level 3 securities, the Company estimates the value of these securities using discounted cash flow analyses with the assistance of a structured credit valuation firm. 25 Table of Contents Third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments, and estimates in determining securities values, and different third parties use different methodologies or provide different prices for similar securities. In addition, the nature of the business of the third party source that is valuing the securities at any given time could impact the valuation of the securities. Consequently, the ultimate sales price for any of these securities could vary significantly from the recorded fair value at December 31, 2011, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction. Any resulting write-downs of the fair value of the Company's available-for-sale securities would reduce earnings in the period in which it is recorded and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's investment in bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI") may decline in value. The Company has bank-owned life insurance contracts with a cash surrender value ("CSV") of $206.2 million as of December 31, 2011. A majority of these contracts are separate account contracts. These contracts are supported by underlying investments whose fair values are subject to volatility in the market. The Company has limited its risk of loss in value of the securities through the use of stable value contracts that provide protection from a decline in fair value down to 80% of the CSV of the insurance policies. To the extent fair values on individual contracts fall below 80% of book value, the CSV of specific contracts may be reduced or the underlying assets transferred to short-duration investments, resulting in lower earnings. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value for all contracts exceeded 80% of book value, but turmoil in the market could result in declines that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The value of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $283.7 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. If the Company's stock price declines and remains low for an extended period of time, the Company could be required to write off all or a portion of its goodwill, which represents the value in excess of the Company's tangible book value. The Company's stock price is subject to market conditions that can be impacted by forces outside of the control of management, such as a perceived weakness in financial institutions in general, and may not be a direct result of the Company's performance. In addition, a significant decline in the Company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates may necessitate taking future charges related to the impairment of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets. A write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would reduce earnings in the period in which it is recorded and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. External Risks The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets in which the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, credit unions, personal loan and finance companies, retail and discount stockbrokers, investment advisors, mutual funds, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes; further illiquidity in the credit markets; and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance, and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company's competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. In addition, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can offer. 26 Table of Contents The Company's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: •Developing, maintaining, and building long-term customer relationships; •Expanding the Company's market position; •Offering products and services at prices and with the features that meet customers' needs and demands; •Introducing new products and services; •Maintaining a satisfactory level of customer service; and • Anticipating and adjusting to changes in industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company's competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company's growth and profitability. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The Company's financial performance generally is dependent upon the business environment in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the state of Illinois, and the U.S. as a whole. In particular, the current environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans as well as the value of collateral securing those loans. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, strong business earnings, and other factors. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. In recent years, the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the state of Illinois, and the U.S. as a whole experienced a downward economic cycle. Significant weakness in market conditions adversely impacted all aspects of the economy including the Company's business. In particular, dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of construction loans, which resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced, and local governments and many businesses experienced serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, unemployment increased significantly during that period. The business environment was adverse for many households and businesses in the suburban metropolitan Chicago market, the state of Illinois, the U.S., and worldwide. While economic conditions began to improve in 2011, the recent depressed business environment had an adverse effect on the Company's business. There can be no assurance that the current improvement will continue, and future economic deterioration would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of recent difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. Market stress could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the Company's loans, and therefore, its financial condition and results of operations as well as other potential adverse impacts including: •There could be an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally. •There could be an increase in write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, such as the Company. •The Company's ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers could be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite credits become less predictive of future performance. •The process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in the Company's loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. This process includes forecasts of economic conditions and the impact of these economic conditions on borrowers' ability to repay their loans. The process could no longer be capable of accurate estimation and may, in turn, impact its reliability. •The Bank could be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future if losses further deplete the DIF. •The Company could face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance 27 Table of Contents that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Concerns about the European Union's sovereign debt crisis have also caused uncertainty for financial markets globally. Although the Company does not have direct exposure to European sovereign debt, these circumstances could indirectly affect the Company through general disruption in the global markets and the related effects on national and local economies, perceived weakness or market concerns about bank stocks generally, the Bank's hedging activities, customers with European businesses or assets denominated in the Euro, or companies in the Company's market with European businesses or affiliates. Turmoil in the financial markets could result in lower fair values for the company's investment securities. Major disruptions in the capital markets experienced in recent years have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities, excluding U.S. Treasury securities, and resulted in volatility in the fair values of the Company's investment securities. Significant prolonged reduced investor demand could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI"), which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Municipal securities can also be impacted by the business environment of their geographic location. Although this type of security has historically experienced extremely low default rates, municipal securities are subject to systemic risk since cash flows are generally dependent upon (i) the ability of the issuing authority to levy and collect taxes or (ii) the ability of the issuer to charge for and collect payment for essential services rendered. If the issuer defaults on its payments, it may result in the recognition of OTTI or total loss, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors, and employees. Threats to the Company's reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of the Company's customers. The Company has policies and procedures in place that seek to protect its reputation and promote ethical conduct. Nonetheless, negative publicity may arise regarding the Company's business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, and could result in the loss of customers, investors, and employees; costly litigation; a decline in revenues; and increased governmental oversight. Negative publicity could have a material adverse impact on the Company's reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon liquidation or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and could materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Company's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company's exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an 28 Table of Contents environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact the Company's business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, reduce the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Recent and/or future U.S. credit downgrades or changes in outlook by the major credit rating agencies may have an adverse effect on financial markets, including financial institutions and the financial industry. Despite the recent actions taken by the U.S. government to raise the U.S. debt limit and address budget deficit concerns, Standard & Poor's Rating Services ("S&P") downgraded the U.S.'s credit rating from AAA to AA+ in 2011. It is difficult to predict the effect of this action, or of any future downgrades or changes in outlook by S&P or either of the other two major credit rating agencies. However, these events could impact the trading market for U.S. government securities, including agency securities, and the securities markets more broadly, and, consequently, could impact the value and liquidity of financial assets, including assets in the Company's investment and bank-owned life insurance portfolios. These actions could also create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may negatively affect the global banking system and limit the availability of funding, including borrowings under repurchase arrangements, at reasonable terms. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Company's business may be adversely affected by the impact of uncertainty about the financial stability of troubled European Union member economies. Certain European Union member countries have fiscal obligations greater than their fiscal revenue, which has caused investor concern over such countries' ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth. Federal regulators are closely monitoring U.S. money market funds' exposure to commercial paper issued by European banks. Approximately one-half of all prime money market funds are invested in European bank commercial paper and those European banks are heavily invested in government bonds issued by the troubled economies of Greece, Portugal, and Spain. A default by any of those countries could have a broad negative effect on U.S. and world economies. In addition, the European debt crisis has caused credit spreads to widen in the fixed income debt markets and liquidity to be less abundant. A weaker European economy may transcend Europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of European financial institutions and the stability of European member economies, and likewise impact U.S.-based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial markets, and the economic recovery underway in the U.S. The Company cannot predict the current or future impact this uncertainty may have on its financial condition or results of operations. Legal/Compliance Risks The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, FDIC funds, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. 29 Table of Contents Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of those policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to the Company's reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1, "Business," and Note 18 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Form 10-K. Rapidly implemented legislative and regulatory actions could have an unanticipated and adverse effect on the Company. In response to the recent financial market crisis, the U.S. government, specifically the Treasury, Federal Reserve, and FDIC, working in cooperation with foreign governments and other central banks, has taken a variety of extraordinary measures designed to restore confidence in the financial markets and to strengthen financial institutions. The rulemaking relating to these measures was accomplished on an emergency basis in order to address immediate concerns about the stability and continued existence of the global financial system. Recovery programs were rapidly proposed, adopted, and sometimes quickly abandoned in response to changing market conditions and other concerns. The speed of market developments required the government to abandon its traditional pattern and timeline of legislative and regulatory rulemaking, and issue rules on an interim basis without prior notice and comment. Rulemaking in this manner, rather than through the traditional legislative practice, does not allow for input by regulated financial institutions, such as the Company, and could lead to uncertainty in the financial markets, disruption to the Company's business, increased costs, and material adverse effects on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's business may be adversely affected in the future by the implementation of ongoing regulations regarding banks and financial institutions under the Dodd-Frank Act. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations and, consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. See the section titled "Supervision and Regulation in Item 1" of this Form 10-K for a discussion of several significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to address specific issues that contributed to the financial crisis and is heavily remedial in nature. Several provisions in the Act are applicable to larger institutions (greater than $10 billion in assets). Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking that will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company. However, compliance with this new law and its regulations likely will result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's business may be adversely affected in the future by the implementation of rules establishing standards for debit card interchange fees. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve approved final rules establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. A debit card interchange fee is a fee paid by a merchant's bank to the customer's bank for the use of the debit card. Under the final rule, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is 21 cents plus an amount equal to five basis points of the transaction value. In addition, under an interim final rule issued concurrently with the final rule, an additional one cent per transaction "fraud prevention 30 Table of Contents adjustment" to the interchange fee is available to those issuers that comply with certain standards outlined by the Federal Reserve. The effective date for the cap on interchange fees was October 1, 2011. Currently, the Company is exempt from the interchange fee cap under the "small issuer" exemption, which applies to any debit card issuer with total worldwide assets of less than $10 billion as of the end of the previous calendar year. In the event the Company's assets reach $10 billion or more, it will become subject to the interchange fee limitations beginning July 1 of the following year, and the fees the Company may receive for an electronic debit transaction will be capped at the statutory limit. Although the rule applies only to larger institutions and does not currently apply to the Company, future industry responses and developments relating to this rule that are currently unknown may affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations in ways and to a degree that it cannot currently predict, including any impact on its future revenue. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel III final framework on capital and liquidity ratio requirements is uncertain. The Basel III final framework introduces a new capital measure and specifies adjustments to the instruments that comprise Tier 1 capital. In addition, the Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. For a more detailed description of this proposal, refer to the section titled "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1, "Business" of this Form 10-K. The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that they expect to implement regulations in mid-2012. These new standards are subject to further rulemaking and their terms may well change before implementation. The resulting impact of Basel III on the Company's capital and liquidity ratios and compliance costs is unknown, and could negatively affect the costs and availability of capital alternatives. In addition, requirements to maintain higher levels of capital or liquid assets could adversely impact the Company's net income and return on equity. The level of the commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development, and other land loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The joint guidance requires heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment, and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. The Company is currently in compliance with these regulations. If regulators determine the Company is in violation of these restrictions or has not adequately implemented risk management practices, they could impose additional regulatory restrictions against the Company, which could have a material negative impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to examinations and challenges by taxing authorities. In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are routinely subjected to examinations and challenges from federal and state taxing authorities regarding tax positions taken by the Company and the determination of the amount of tax due. These examinations may relate to income, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property, sales and use, or other tax returns filed, or not filed, by the Company. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the amount of taxes due, and may result in the imposition of penalties and interest. If any such challenges are not resolved in the Company's favor, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in interpretation of existing laws. The Company's financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting income tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Company and its subsidiaries may not be able to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The deferred tax assets can be recognized in future periods dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to realize the asset through carryback or carryforward to taxable income in prior or future years, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the possible application of future tax planning strategies. A valuation allowance is established for any deferred tax asset for which recovery or settlement is not more likely than not. Each quarter, the Company assesses its deferred tax asset position, including the recoverability of this asset or the need for a valuation allowance. This assessment takes into consideration positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that a portion of the asset will not be realized. If the Company is not able to recognize deferred tax assets in future periods, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal action are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions. In August 2011, the Bank was named in a purported class action lawsuit filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois on behalf of certain of the Bank's customers who incurred overdraft fees. The lawsuit is based on the Bank's practices pursuant to debit card transactions, and alleges, among other things, that these practices have resulted in customers being unfairly assessed overdraft fees. The lawsuit seeks an unspecified amount of damages and other relief, including restitution. The Company believes that the complaint contains significant inaccuracies and factual misstatements and that the Bank has meritorious defenses. As a result, the Bank intends to vigorously defend itself against the allegations in 32 Table of Contents the lawsuit. The Bank filed a motion to dismiss this claim in November 2011, and the plaintiff filed an amended complaint in February 2012. Currently, there are certain other legal proceedings pending against the Company and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of any legal proceeding is inherently uncertain, based on information currently available, the Company's management believes that any liabilities arising from pending legal matters would be immaterial. However, if actual results differ from management's expectations, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Risks Related to FDIC-Assisted Transactions and Other Acquisition Activity Future acquisitions may disrupt the Company's business and dilute stockholder value. In the past, the Company has strategically acquired banks or branches of other banks. The Company may consider future acquisitions to supplement internal growth opportunities. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or expanded services. Acquiring other banks or branches involves potential risks that could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations, including: •Exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired banks; •Exposure to asset quality issues of acquired banks; •Disruption of the Company's business; •Loss of key employees and customers of acquired banks; •Short-term decrease in profitability; •Diversion of management's time and attention; •Issues arising during transition and integration; •Dilution in the ownership percentage of holdings of the Company's Common Stock; •Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; •Payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute the Company's tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long-term; •Volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts; •Inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; and •Changes in banking or tax laws or regulations. From time to time, the Company may evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and therefore, some dilution of the Company's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Competition for acquisition candidates is intense. Competition for acquisitions is intense. Numerous potential acquirers compete with the Company for acquisition candidates. The Company may not be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable targets, which could slow the Company's growth rate and have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete in its markets. The Company has engaged in FDIC-assisted transactions and may engage in future FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to its business. In the current economic environment, the Company may be presented with opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring 33 Table of Contents existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing in exposure to credit losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions involve failing banks and are structured in a manner that do not allow the Company the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition (including preparing for integration of an acquired institution), the Company may face additional risks if it engages in FDIC-assisted transactions. The assets the Company would acquire would be more troubled than in a typical acquisition. The deposits the Company would assume would generally be higher priced than in a typical acquisition and, therefore, subject to higher attrition. Integration could be more difficult in this type of acquisition than in a typical acquisition since key staff would have departed. Any inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to achieve its business strategy and maintain its market value and profitability. Moreover, even if the Company is inclined to participate in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company can only participate in the bid process if it receives approval of bank regulators. There can be no assurance that the Company will be allowed to participate in the bid process, or what the terms of such transaction might be or whether the Company would be successful in acquiring the bank or targeted assets. The Company may be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per common share and share ownership. Furthermore, assuming the Company is allowed to and chooses to participate in FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company may face competition from other financial institutions. To the extent that our competitors are selected to participate in FDIC-assisted transactions, our ability to identify and attract acquisition candidates and/or make acquisitions on favorable terms may be adversely affected. Failure to comply with the terms of loss share agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses, and the Company may become dependent upon third party vendors in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. In 2009 and 2010, the Company acquired the majority of the assets of three financial institutions in FDIC-assisted transactions. Most loans and OREO acquired in the acquisitions are covered by the FDIC Agreements. Under the FDIC Agreements, the FDIC will reimburse the Bank for a portion of losses arising from certain assets of the acquired institutions. The FDIC Agreements have specific and detailed compliance, servicing, notification, and reporting requirements. The Company has engaged a third party loan servicing vendor to administer a portion of the assets subject to the FDIC Agreements, and may engage this or another vendor to provide similar services in the future if the Company engages in future FDIC-assisted transactions. As a result, the Company is, and may increasingly become, dependent upon this vendor to provide key services to the Bank. While the Company carefully selected this vendor, the Company may not control the vendor's actions. Any failure by the vendor to comply with the terms of any loss share arrangement the Bank has with the FDIC, or to properly service the loans and OREO covered by any loss share arrangement, may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for reimbursement to the Bank from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated and could adversely affect the Company's business or financial condition. Furthermore, in the event the Bank engages in additional FDIC-assisted transactions with loss share arrangements, the Company's dependence on this vendor could increase. The services provided by this vendor are unique and not provided by many vendors either locally or nationwide. As a result, the Company's ability to replace this vendor could entail significant delay, expense, and risk to the Company, its business operations, and financial condition. The Company may not realize all of the expected benefits of its FDIC-assisted transactions. The Company performs a valuation of loans and OREO acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans associated with these transactions, its estimates of the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate. Valuing these assets using inaccurate assumptions could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. 34 Table of Contents In FDIC-assisted transactions that include loss-share agreements, the Company records an FDIC indemnification asset that reflects its estimate of the timing and amount of future losses that are anticipated to occur. In determining the size of the FDIC indemnification asset, the Company analyzes the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. Changes in the Company's estimate of the timing of those losses, specifically if those losses are to occur beyond the applicable loss-share periods, may result in impairments of the FDIC indemnification asset, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. If the assumptions related to the timing or amount of expected losses are incorrect, there could be a negative impact on the Company's operating results. Increases in the amount of future losses in response to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio may result in increased charge-offs, which would also negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with the Company's Common Stock An investment in the Company's Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company's Common Stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company's Common Stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any public company. As a result, if you acquire the Company's Common Stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company's stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your Common Stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company's Common Stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including: •Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; •Recommendations by securities analysts; •Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; •News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; •Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; •New technology used or services offered by competitors; •Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint venture, or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; •Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; •Changes in government regulations; and •Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company's stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in the Company's Common Stock is less than that of other larger financial services institutions. Although the Company's Common Stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market Exchange, the trading volume in its Common Stock may be less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company's Common Stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. During any period of lower trading volume of the Company's Common Stock, significant sales of shares of the Company's Common Stock, or the expectation of these sales could cause the Company's Common Stock price to fall. 35 Table of Contents The Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-laws, and Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and the Company's Amended and Restated Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by the Company's stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock. The Company may issue additional securities, which could dilute the ownership percentage of holders of the Company's Common Stock. The Company may issue additional securities to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options, and, if it does, the ownership percentage of holders of the Company's Common Stock could be diluted potentially materially. The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level, and it cannot ensure its ability to pay dividends in the future. On March 16, 2009, the Board of Directors of First Midwest Bancorp, Inc. ("the Board") announced a reduction in the Company's quarterly Common Stock dividend from $0.225 per share to $0.01 per share. While the Company considers future capital strategies, including an increase in quarterly dividends, any increase will be subject to regulatory review. The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level, and the amount of its dividend may fluctuate. All dividends will be made at the discretion of the Board and will depend upon the Company's earnings, financial condition, and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant from time to time. The Board may, at its discretion, further reduce or eliminate dividends or change its dividend policy in the future. In addition, the Federal Reserve has issued Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Letter SR-09-4, which requires bank holding companies to inform and consult with Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. Under this regulation, if the Company experiences losses in a series of consecutive quarters, it may be required to inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring or paying any dividends. In this event, there can be no assurance that the Company's regulators will approve the payment of such dividends. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to the Company's Common Stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to the Company's Common Stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock. The Company may attempt to increase the Company's capital or raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including trust-preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes, and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of the Company's debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of the Company's available assets prior to the holders of the Company's Common Stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Company's existing stockholders or reduce the market price of the Company's Common Stock, or both. Holders of the Company's Common Stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The Board is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the Company's stockholders. The Board also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over the Company's Common Stock with respect to dividends or upon the Company's dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, and other terms. If the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the Company's Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the Company's Common Stock, the rights of holders of the Company's Common Stock or the market price of the Company's Common Stock could be adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company does not have any unresolved comments pending with the SEC staff. 