ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. There was significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital markets during 2008 and 2009. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing a number of institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. These conditions were largely the result of the erosion of the United States and international credit markets, including a significant and rapid deterioration in the mortgage lending and related real estate markets and valuation levels. Unemployment nationwide and in California has increased significantly through this economic downturn and is anticipated to increase or remain elevated for the foreseeable future. Continued declines in real estate values, high unemployment and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct banking operations principally in Northern California. As a result, our business results are dependent in large part upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in Northern California. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally, will improve in the near term, in which case we could continue to experience losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. In addition, the State of California is currently experiencing significant budgetary and fiscal difficulties, which include terminating and furloughing state employees. The businesses operating in California and Sacramento in particular depend on these state employees for business, and reduced spending activity by these state employees could have a material impact on the success or failure of these businesses, some of which are current or potential future customers of the Bank. A further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations: • Loan delinquencies may further increase causing additional increases in our provision and allowance for loan losses; • Financial sector regulators may adopt more restrictive practices or interpretations of existing regulations, or adopt new regulations; • Collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate related, may continue to decline in value, which in turn could reduce a client’s borrowing power, and reduce the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment; • Consumer confidence levels may decline and cause adverse changes in payment patterns, resulting in increased delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities and decreased demand for our products and services; and • Performance of the underlying loans in the private label mortgage backed securities we hold may continue to deteriorate as the recession continues, potentially causing other-than-temporary impairment markdowns to our investment portfolio. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, our total nonperforming assets amounted to $15.6 million, including $2.9 million in other real estate owned, or 2.27% of our total assets, down from $23.1 million, or 2.98% of total assets a year earlier. We experienced $6.7 million in net charge-offs in 2009 compared to $6.3 million in 2008. Our provision for loan and lease losses was $9.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 compared to $6.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may expect to continue to incur losses relating to an increase in nonperforming assets. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile. 15 Table of Contents While we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in nonperforming assets. We have a concentration risk in real estate related loans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 77.13% of our loan portfolio was secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. Of that amount, 9.90% of our total loan portfolio consisted of construction loans, 43.23% related to commercial real estate, 16.42% related to residential mortgage loans (including our ITIN loans) and 7.58% involved real estate related loans not classified in the preceding definitions. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, we have experienced increasing levels of net charge-offs. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by commercial real estate loans which generally carry larger loan balances and historically have involved a greater degree of financial and credit risks than residential first mortgage loans. These loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower, and therefore repayment of these loans is often dependent on the cash flow of the borrower which may be unpredictable. Continued increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Monitoring and servicing our Individual Tax Identification Number (“ITIN”) residential mortgage loans could prove more costly and time consuming than previously modeled. In April 2009, we completed a loan “swap” transaction, whereby we exchanged, without recourse, $14.0 million in certain nonperforming assets measured at fair value and cash of approximately $67.0 million for a pool of performing ITIN loans with an estimated fair value of $80.7 million. These loans are residential mortgage loans made to United States residents without a social security number and are geographically dispersed throughout the United States. This is our first ITIN loan transaction, and as such, is serviced through a third party. Worsening economic conditions in the United States may cause us to suffer higher default rates on our ITIN loans and reduce the value of the assets that we hold as collateral. In addition, if we are forced to foreclose and service these ITIN properties ourselves, we may realize additional monitoring, servicing and appraisal costs due to the geographic dispersement of the portfolio which would adversely affect our noninterest expense. Future loan losses may exceed the allowance for loan losses. We have established a reserve for possible losses expected in connection with loans in the credit portfolio. This allowance reflects estimates of the collectability of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. The determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is subjective; although the method for determining the amount of the allowance uses criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance, particularly in the current economic climate. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If the loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, we will need to make additional provisions to the allowance, which is accounted for as charges to income, which would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks’ loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Defaults may negatively impact us. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. 16 Table of Contents We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, which management believes are appropriate to minimize risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the loan portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations, which are out of our control, could harm profitability. Our income is highly dependent on “interest rate differentials” and the resulting net interest margins (i.e., the difference between the interest rates earned on the Bank’s interest-earning assets such as loans and securities, and the interest rates paid on the Bank’s interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors, which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Because of our preference for using variable rate pricing on the majority of our loan portfolio and non-interest bearing demand deposit accounts we are asset sensitive. As a result, we are generally adversely affected by declining interest rates. In addition, changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments and the generation of deposits. These changes also affect the rates received on loans and securities and paid on deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our shareholders’ equity and net income. At December 31, 2009, $80.1 million of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. At such date, the aggregate net unrealized gain on our available-for-sale securities, net of tax, was $658,000. We increase or decrease shareholders’ equity by the amount of change from the unrealized gain or loss (the difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported shareholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold and there are no credit impairments, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. In the event there are credit loss related impairments, the credit loss component is recognized in earnings. Our available for sale equity holdings consist of shares of the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (“FHLB”). As of December 31, 2009, we held stock in the FHLB totaling $6.1 million. The stock is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. As of December 31, 2009, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings; however, future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such stock holdings. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, FHLB advances, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include negative operating results, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets in recent years. The condition of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, public perceptions and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. 17 Table of Contents In the event there are credit loss related impairments, the credit loss component is recognized in earnings. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. Financial institutions have been the subject of substantial legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance with applicable laws and regulations have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for us, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on us or our borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury was granted the authority to take a range of actions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the United States financial markets and has proposed several programs, including the purchase by the Treasury of certain troubled assets from financial institutions and the direct purchase by the Treasury of equity of financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, current initiatives of President Obama’s Administration and the possible enactment of recently proposed bankruptcy legislation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of our common stock. We expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. The effects of such recently enacted, and proposed, legislation and regulatory programs on us cannot reliably be determined at this time. Because of our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program we are subject to several restrictions including, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. On November 14, 2008, in exchange for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million, we issued and sold to the Treasury pursuant to the Trouble Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program the following: (i) 17,000 shares of our newly designated Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, no par value per share and liquidation preference $1,000 per share (“Series A Preferred Stock”) and (ii) a warrant to purchase up to 405,405 shares of our common stock, no par value per share, at an exercise price of $6.29 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments. The warrant may be exercised for up to ten years after issuance. In connection with the issuance and sale of our securities, we entered into a Letter Agreement including the Securities Purchase Agreement — Standard Terms, dated November 14, 2008, with the Treasury (“Agreement”). The Agreement contains limitations on the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.08 per share, and on our ability to repurchase our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Our Series A Preferred Stock diminishes the net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share. The dividends accrued on the Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. In 2009 our net income of $6.0 million was reduced to $5.1 million after deducting approximately $942,000 in dividends to the Treasury plus accretion on the Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock is cumulative, which means that any dividends not declared or paid will accumulate and will be payable when the payment of dividends is resumed. The dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock will increase from 5% to 9% per annum five years after its original issuance if not earlier redeemed. If we are unable to redeem the Preferred Stock prior to the date of this increase, the cost of capital to us will increase substantially. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the Series A Preferred Stock annual dividend rate could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and could also adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. Shares of Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Finally, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock allow the Treasury to impose additional restrictions, including those on dividends and unilateral amendments required to comply with changes in applicable federal law. Our holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may have interests different from our common shareholders. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for a total of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), the Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our Board of Directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends has been paid. Otherwise, except as required by law, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our Articles of Incorporation, the vote or consent of holders of at least 662/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for: • Any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; • Any amendments to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or • Consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, including the Treasury, may have different interests from the holders of our common stock, and could vote to block the foregoing transactions, even when considered desirable by, or in the best interests of, the holders of our common stock. We rely heavily on our management team and the loss of key officers may adversely affect operations. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by the ability to retain existing senior management and, with expansion, to attract and retain qualified additional senior and middle management. We recently had a number of changes in our senior management team, including the promotions of our new Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and the appointment of a new Chief Risk Officer. The departure of any of our senior management could have an adverse effect on us. Our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program could also have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. Legislation and rules applicable to the TARP Capital Purchase Program participants include extensive new restrictions on our ability to pay retention awards, bonuses and other incentive compensation to our Chief Executive Officer during the period in which the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding. Other restrictions are not limited to our Chief Executive Officer and cover other employees whose contributions to revenue and performance can be significant. The limitations may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain these key employees in addition to our senior executive officers, especially if we are competing for talent against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. 19 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve, and perhaps the FDIC, is contemplating proposed rules governing the compensation practices of financial institutions and these rules, if adopted, may adversely affect our management retention and limit our ability to promote our objectives through our compensation and incentive programs and, as a result, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The full scope and impact of these limitations is uncertain and difficult to predict. The Secretary of the Treasury has adopted standards that implement certain compensation limitations, but these standards have not yet been broadly interpreted and remain, in many respects, ambiguous. The new and potential future legal requirements and implementing standards under the Capital Purchase Program may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry as a whole, and particularly on Capital Purchase Program participants, including us. It will likely require significant time, effort and resources on our part to interpret and apply them. If any of our regulators believe that we are not in compliance with new and future legal requirements and implementing standards, it could subject us to regulatory actions or otherwise adversely affect our management retention and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition. Even if we redeem our Series A Preferred Stock and repurchase the warrant issued to the Treasury, we will continue to be subject to evolving legal and regulatory requirements that may, among other things, require increasing amounts of our time, effort and resources to ensure compliance. Internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. We are subject to many operating risks, including, without limitation, data processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud. There can be no assurance that such an event will not occur, and if such an event is not prevented or detected by our other internal controls and does occur, and it is uninsured or is in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our reputation in the business community and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be interrupted if third party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. We depend, and will continue to depend to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, we utilize software and hardware systems for processing, essential web hosting, debit and credit card processing, merchant processing, Internet banking systems and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other qualified service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. The Bank provides its customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. The Bank’s network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the Bank’s activities or the activities of its customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us and the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and our ability to generate deposits. 20 Table of Contents Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. We continuously consider merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our stock’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. In addition, while loss sharing arrangements currently associated with FDIC-assisted transactions provide some level of risk reduction; these arrangements do not completely eliminate risk. To the extent we would participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction there can be no assurances that any positive expected results of such a transaction would fully materialize. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. We do not currently have any specific plans, arrangements or understandings regarding such expansion. We cannot say with certainty that we will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate future acquisitions or that we will not incur disruptions or unexpected expenses in integrating such acquisitions. In attempting to make such acquisitions, we anticipate competing with other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial and operational resources than us. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • Potential disruption to our business; • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Given the current disruption in the financial markets and potential new regulatory initiatives, including the Obama Administration’s recent financial regulatory reform proposal, new regulations and laws that may affect us are increasingly likely. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. These proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, may be adopted in the future, which could (i) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (ii) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (iii) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (iv) otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects for business. Moreover, banking regulators have significant discretion and authority to address what regulators perceive to be unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority by banking regulators over us may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. 21 Table of Contents Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. As the large number of recent bank failures continues to deplete the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule in February 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. The FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which special assessment amount was capped at 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009. In addition, the FDIC recently approved a rule requiring financial institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010 through and including 2012 in order to re-capitalize the Deposit Insurance Fund. Accordingly, the Bank prepaid deposit insurance premiums in the amount of $3.3 million on December 31, 2009. The rule also provides for increasing the FDIC assessment rates by three basis points effective January 1, 2011. There can be no assurance that the FDIC will not increase premiums further or levy additional special assessments, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Shares eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect. Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in connection with our various stock option and equity compensation plans, in possible acquisitions, and any other offering of our common stock for cash, and the issuance of 405,405 shares underlying the warrant issued to the Treasury pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program, could have a dilutive effect on the market for our common stock and could adversely affect its market price. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize 50,000,000 shares of which 8,711,495 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2009. In addition there are 282,080 shares subject to common stock options outstanding with a weighted average exercise price of $7.06 per share. Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. A natural disaster or recurring energy shortage, especially in California, could harm our business. Historically, California has been vulnerable to natural disasters. Therefore, we are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires, floods and mudslides. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our websites, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. California has also experienced energy shortages, which, if they recur, could impair the value of the real estate in those areas affected. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections and maintain business interruption insurance, these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters or energy shortages in California could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive. Stock price volatility may make it difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • Recommendations by securities analysts; • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; 22 Table of Contents • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry, including the failures of other financial institutions in the current economic downturn; • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • Public sentiments toward the financial services and banking industry generally; • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • Changes in government regulations; and • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results as evidenced by the current volatility and disruption of capital and credit markets. Our profitability measures could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively deploy the capital raised in our latest offering. On February 11, 2010, we filed a Form S-1 Registration Statement (the “Registration Statement”) with the SEC to offer $30.0 million of shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering (“Offering”). We intend to grant the underwriters in the Offering an option to purchase up to an additional $4.5 million of common stock to cover over-allotment, if any. In the Registration Statement, we set out our intent to use the net proceeds of the Offering for general corporate purposes, including contributing additional capital to the Bank, supporting our ongoing and future anticipated growth, which may include opportunistic acquisitions of all or parts of other financial institutions, including FDIC-assisted transactions, and positioning us for eventual redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury. Although we are periodically engaged in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, we are not currently party to any purchase or merger agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate future acquisitions on terms acceptable to us. Investing the proceeds of the Offering in investment grade securities until we are able to deploy the proceeds would provide lower margins than we generally earn on loans, potentially adversely impacting shareholder returns, including earnings per share, net interest margin, return on assets and return on equity. Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock, which could lead to significant price volatility. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the trading symbol “BOCH,” but there have historically been low trading volumes in our common stock. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. In order to approve a merger or similar business combination with the owner of 20% or more of our common stock (an “Interested Shareholder”), our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that would require a supermajority vote of 662/3% of the outstanding shares of the common stock (excluding the shares held by the Interested Shareholder or its affiliates). These provisions further require that the per share consideration to be paid in such a transaction would have to equal or exceed the greater of (a) the highest per share price paid by the Interested Shareholder (i) within two years of the transaction proposal announcement date, or (ii) the date the Interested Shareholder acquired a 20% -plus ownership interest (if the acquisition occurred less than two years before the transaction announcement) and (b) the fair market value of the Common Stock on (i) the transaction proposal announcement date, or (ii) the date the Interested Shareholder acquired a 20% -plus ownership interest (if the acquisition occurred less than two years before the transaction announcement). The operation of these provisions could result in the Company becoming a less attractive target for a would-be acquirer. As a consequence, it is possible that shareholder would lose an opportunity to be paid a premium for their shares in an acquisition transaction. 23 Table of Contents There may be future sales or other dilutions of our equity which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive our common stock. In addition, we are not prohibited from issuing additional securities which are senior to our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend in part on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings other than the Offering. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of any future stock issuances reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. The exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option to be granted in connection with the Offering, the exercise of any options granted to our directors and employees, the exercise of the outstanding warrants for our common stock as referenced above, the issuance of shares of common stock in acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock. In addition, the existence of options and warrants to acquire shares of our common stock may materially adversely affect the terms upon which we may be able to obtain additional capital in the future through the sale of equity securities. Any future issuances of shares of our common stock will be dilutive to existing shareholders. The holders of our preferred stock and trust preferred securities have rights that are senior to those of our holders of common stock and that may impact our ability to pay dividends on our common stock to our common shareholders and reduce net income available to our common shareholders. At December 31, 2009, our subsidiary trusts had outstanding $15.0 million of trust preferred securities. These securities are effectively senior to shares of common stock due to the priority of the underlying junior subordinated debt. As a result, we must make payments on our trust preferred securities before any dividends can be paid on our common stock; moreover, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution, or liquidation, the obligations outstanding with respect to our trust preferred securities must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to our shareholders. While we have the right to defer dividends on the trust preferred securities for a period of up to five years, if any such election is made, no dividends may be paid to our common or preferred shareholders during that time. We are required to pay cumulative dividends on the $17.0 million in Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury in the TARP Capital Purchase Program at an annual rate of 5% for the first five years and 9% thereafter, unless we redeem the shares earlier. We may not declare or pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase shares of our common stock without first having paid all accrued cumulative preferred dividends that are due. Until January 2012, we also may not increase our per share common stock dividend rate or repurchase shares of our common shares without the Treasury’s consent, unless the Treasury has transferred to third parties all the Series A Preferred Stock originally issued to it. Our future ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock is subject to restrictions. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank and our majority-owned mortgage company, we have no material source of income other than dividends received from the Bank and the mortgage company. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders will depend on the Bank’s and mortgage company’s ability to pay dividends to us. Moreover, banks and financial holding companies are both subject to certain federal and state regulatory restrictions on cash dividends. We are also restricted from paying dividends if we have deferred payments of the interest on, or an event of default has occurred with respect to, our trust preferred securities or Series A Preferred Stock. Additionally, terms and conditions of our Series A Preferred Stock place certain restrictions and limitations on our common stock dividends and repurchases of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Potential Volatility of Deposits The Bank’s depositors could choose to withdraw their deposits from the Bank and then put it into alternative investments, causing an increase in our funding costs and reducing net interest income. Checking, savings and money market account balances can decrease when customers perceive that alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move funds out of bank deposits into other investments, the Bank will lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing funding costs. At December 31, 2009, time certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000 represented approximately 39% of the dollar value of the total deposits of the Company. As such, these deposits are considered volatile and could be subject to withdrawal. Withdrawal of a material amount of such deposits could adversely affect the liquidity of our profitability, business prospects, results of operations and cash flows. The Company monitors activity of volatile liability deposits on a quarterly basis. Negative Publicity could Damage our Reputation Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the financial services business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance or acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Mortgage banking interest rate and market risk Changes in interest rates greatly affect the mortgage banking business. Our mortgage subsidiary originates, funds and services mortgage loans, which subjects the Company to various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. Based on market conditions and other factors, the Company reduces unwanted credit and liquidity risks by selling some or all of the long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans and adjustable rate mortgages originated. Notwithstanding the continued downturn in the housing sector, and the continued lack of liquidity in the nonconforming secondary markets, our subsidiary mortgage banking revenue continued to be strong. Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may potentially impact total origination fees. Interest rates impact the amount and timing of origination because consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees. Given the time it takes for consumer behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the time required for processing a new application, providing the commitment, and selling the loan, interest rate changes will impact origination fees with a lag. The amount and timing of the impact on origination fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the change in interest rates. A decline in interest rates increases the propensity for refinancing. As part of subsidiary mortgage banking activities, we enter into commitments to fund residential mortgage loans at specified times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest rate lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a specified interest rate and within a specified period of time, up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. Outstanding loan commitments expose the Company to the risk that the price of the mortgage loans underlying the commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage interest rates from inception of the rate lock to the funding of the loan. Mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter The Company earns revenue from fees for originating mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue from loan originations. It is also possible that, because of the recession and deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall, with a corresponding impact on origination fees. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None to report. 