ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered significant disruption during the recent recession, causing a number of institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. These conditions were largely the result of the erosion of the United States and international credit markets, including a significant and rapid deterioration in the mortgage lending and related real estate markets and valuation levels. There is continued unemployment nationwide and in California which may remain elevated for the foreseeable future. A sluggish recover in real estate values, continued high unemployment and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct banking operations principally in Northern California. As a result, our business results are dependent in large part upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in Northern California. There can be no assurance that the recent economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally, will recover at a rapid rate or stabilize in the near term, in which case we could continue to experience losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. In addition, the State of California continues to experience significant budgetary and fiscal difficulties, which include terminating and furloughing state employees. The businesses operating in California and Sacramento in particular depend on these state employees for business, and reduced spending activity by these state employees could have a material impact on the success or failure of these businesses, some of which are current or potential future customers of the Bank. A further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations: • Loan delinquencies may further increase causing additional increases in our provision and ALLL; • Financial sector regulators may adopt more restrictive practices or interpretations of existing regulations, or adopt new regulations; • Collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate related, may continue to decline in value, which in turn could reduce a client’s borrowing power, and reduce the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment; • Consumer confidence levels may continue to decline and cause adverse changes in payment patterns, resulting in increased delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities and decreased demand for our products and services; and • Performance of the underlying loans in the private label mortgage backed securities we hold may deteriorate due to the recent economic downturn, potentially causing other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) markdowns to our investment portfolio. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, our total nonperforming assets, including $3.1 million in other real estate owned (OREO), amounted to $41.6 million, or 4.25% of total assets. Nonperforming assets increased from $25.2 million, or 2.68% of total assets at the same period a year ago. We experienced $8.9 million in net charge offs in 2012 compared to $11.2 million in 2011. Our ALLL was $11.1 million at December 31, 2012 compared to $10.6 million at December 31, 2011. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways, including but not limited to, increased loan provision expense, and forgone loan interest income. As economic and market conditions become stabilized, we generally expect a relatively lower level of losses relating to our nonperforming assets. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or OREO, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases our risk profile and consequently may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate. While we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in nonperforming assets. 14 Table of Contents We have a concentration risk in real estate related loans. Substantially all of the Bank’s lending is tied to real estate. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 65% of our loan portfolio was secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. Of that amount, 3% of the portfolio consisted of construction loans, 43% in commercial real estate, 12% related to residential mortgage loans (including our Individual Tax Identification Number (ITIN) portfolio) and 7% consisted of 1-4 family home equity lines of credit. As a result of continued levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and slowing recovery in real estate values, we continue to experience elevated levels of net charge offs since 2008. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by commercial real estate loans which generally carry larger loan balances and historically have involved a greater degree of financial and credit risks than residential first mortgage loans. These loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower, and therefore repayment of these loans is often dependent on the cash flow of the borrower which may be unpredictable. Any decline in the economy in general, material increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, tightening credit or refinancing markets, or a decline in real estate values in the Company’s primary market areas in particular, as we witnessed with the deterioration in the residential development market since 2007, could have an adverse impact on the repayment of these loans. Any increases in net charge offs and in the ALLL, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Monitoring and servicing our ITIN residential mortgage loans could prove more costly and time consuming than previously modeled. In April 2009, we completed a loan “swap” transaction, whereby we exchanged, without recourse, certain nonperforming assets and cash in exchange for a pool of performing ITIN loans with an outstanding balance of approximately $80.4 million. These loans are residential mortgage loans made to United States residents without a social security number and are geographically dispersed throughout the United States. The ITIN portfolio is serviced through a third party. The slow economic recovery in the United States may cause us to suffer higher default rates on our ITIN loans, resulting in impairment of the assets that we hold as collateral. In addition, if we are forced to foreclose and service these ITIN properties ourselves, we may realize additional monitoring, servicing and appraisal costs due to the geographic disbursement of the portfolio which would adversely affect our noninterest expense. As of December 31, 2012, the outstanding balance of the ITIN loan pool was $60.1 million. The Mortgage Company’s ability to repay its note to the Bank is dependent on its ability to sustain its business. On August 31, 2012, with an effective date of June 30, 2012, the Holding Company sold its 51% ownership interest (capital stock) in the Mortgage Company. Under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, the purchaser acquired Bank of Commerce Holdings’ 51% interest at a price of $5.2 million. In exchange for Bank of Commerce Holdings’ 51% share of the Mortgage Company’s equity, Bank of Commerce Holdings received consideration of $321 thousand in cash ($521 thousand, net of $200 thousand earn out payment), and a promissory note in the amount of $4.7 million. Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Bank will remain 51% liable to any losses or damages arising from any loan buyback agreements in connection with the business of the Company entered into after the date of the closing of the original Stock Purchase Agreement and prior to June 30, 2012. The existing shareholder will be responsible for 49% of any losses or damages arising from such loan buyback agreements. The purchaser’s ability to repay the promissory note is tied directly to its ability sustain its business, substantially all of which is tied to the Bank. A change in the risk waiting by the regulators on the loans purchased by the Bank from the Mortgage Company would negatively impact our ability to continue to do business with the Mortgage Company. Any decrease in business for the Mortgage Company could result in an inability of the Mortgage Company to repay the promissory note which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, should the Mortgage Company become unable to execute on their take-out commitments, the holding period for the Bank could be longer than the usual seven to thirty day period. Accordingly, the Bank could be subject to increased credit risk, interest rate risk, and liquidity risk. In addition, the slower turn times in selling the mortgage loans could potentially affect the mortgage company’s cash flows and negatively impact the Mortgage Company’s ability to repay the promissory note. Changes in regulatory capital requirements could require the Bank to raise additional capital and/or have a negative impact on our earnings. Regulators may change capital requirements that could require the Bank to raise additional capital or reduce asset balances to maintain minimum and well-capitalized levels of regulatory capital. Assets generated by our mortgage warehouse division are shown as “loans held for sale” and are currently assigned a risk weight applicable under current regulation to mortgage loans (generally 50% or 20% for loans guaranteed by the FHA or VA). Certain bank regulators could take the position that such assets should be assigned to the 100% risk weight category associated with loans to mortgage companies that are secured by a pledge of mortgage loans as collateral, which would have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s operations. An increase in risk weights applied could require the Bank to obtain additional capital to support future growth or reduce our loans held for sale to the detriment of our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Future loan losses may exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. We have established a reserve for possible losses expected in connection with loans in the credit portfolio. This allowance reflects estimates of the collectability of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. The determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is subjective; although the method for determining the amount of the allowance uses criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance, particularly in the current economic climate. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If the loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, we will need to make additional provisions to the allowance, which is accounted for as charges to income, which would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks’ loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk Changes in interest rates greatly affect the mortgage banking business. The Bank is indirectly affected by these changes through the early purchase loan program conducted with its discontinued mortgage banking subsidiary. Mortgage loans held-for-sale generated through the Bank’s mortgage loan early purchase program with the former mortgage subsidiary subjects the Company to various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. Based on market conditions and other factors, the Company reduces unwanted credit and liquidity risks by selling all of the long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans and adjustable rate mortgages purchased through this program. Interest rates impact the amount and timing of origination because consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees. Given the time it takes for consumer behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the time required for processing a new application, providing the commitment, and selling the loan, interest rate changes will impact origination fees with a lag. The amount and timing of the impact on origination fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the change in interest rates. A decline in interest rates increases the propensity for refinancing. Defaults may negatively impact us. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the ALLL, which management believes are appropriate to minimize risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the loan portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations, which are out of our control, could harm profitability. Our income is highly dependent on “interest rate differentials” and the resulting net interest margins (i.e., the difference between the interest rates earned on the Bank’s interest earning assets such as loans and securities, and the interest rates paid on the Bank’s interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors, which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Because of our predisposition to variable rate pricing and noninterest bearing demand deposit accounts, we are normally considered asset sensitive, however presently we are liability sensitive in an interest rates up environment, and asset sensitive in an interest rate down environment. As a result, in a static environment we would generally be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments and the generation of deposits. These changes also affect the rates received on loans and securities and paid on deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our shareholders’ equity and net income. At December 31, 2012, $197.4 million of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. At such date, the aggregate net unrealized gain on our available-for-sale securities was $2.9 million ($1.7 million net of tax). 16 Table of Contents We increase or decrease shareholders’ equity by the amount of change from the unrealized gain or loss (the difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) (loss). Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported shareholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold and there are no credit impairments, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. In the event there are credit loss related impairments, the credit loss component is recognized in earnings. We have equity holdings consisting of shares of FHLB stock, and are recorded in other assets. As of December 31, 2012, we held stock in the FHLB totaling $5.9 million. The stock is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. As of December 31, 2012, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings; however, potential negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such stock holdings. Any such impairment charge would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, FHLB advances, the sale or pledging as collateral of securities, loans, and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include negative operating results, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets in recent years. An inability to borrow funds to meet our liquidity needs could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The condition of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, public perceptions and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. In the event there are credit loss related impairments, the credit loss component is recognized in earnings. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act and other recent legislative and regulatory initiatives contain numerous provisions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company’s business. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. In addition, this increased regulation of the financial services industry restricts the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Congress or state legislatures could also adopt laws reducing the amount that borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts, require lenders to extend or restructure certain loans or limit foreclosure and collection remedies. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny will significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, may require us to increase our regulatory capital and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. In response, we may be required to or choose to raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Our Series B Preferred Stock diminishes the net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share. On September 28, 2011, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to which the Company issued and sold to the Treasury 20,000 shares of its Senior Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, for aggregate proceeds net of issuance costs of $19.9 million. The issuance was pursuant to the Treasury’s SBLF program, a $30 billion fund established under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, which encourages lending to small businesses by providing capital to qualified community banks with assets of less than $10 billion. The Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to receive non-cumulative dividends payable quarterly on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1. The dividend rate, which is calculated on the aggregate Liquidation Amount, was initially set at 5% per annum based upon the initial level of Qualified Small Business Lending (QSBL) by the Bank. The dividend rate for future dividend periods will be set based upon the percentage change in qualified lending between each dividend period and the baseline QSBL level established at the commencement of the Agreement. Such dividend rate may vary from 1% per annum to 5% per annum for the second through tenth dividend periods, and from 1% per annum to 7% per annum for the eleventh through the first half of the nineteenth dividend periods. If the Series B Preferred Stock remains outstanding for more than four-and-one-half years, the dividend rate will be fixed at 9%. Prior to that time, in general, the dividend rate decreases as the level of the Bank’s QSBL increases. If we are unable to increase our qualified lending above the baseline QSBL the cost of capital to us will increase substantially. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the Series B Preferred Stock annual dividend rate could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and could also adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. We rely heavily on our management team and the loss of key officers may adversely affect operations. The Company is dependent on the successful recruitment and retention of highly qualified personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategies is closely tied to the strengths of our chief executive officer and other key officers. Our key officers have extensive experience in the banking industry which is not easily replaced. Business banking, one of the Company’s principal lines of business, is dependent on relationship banking, in which Company personnel develop professional relationships with small business owners and officers of larger business customers who are responsible for the financial management of the companies they represent. If these employees were to leave the Company and become employed by a competing bank, the Company could potentially lose business customers. In addition, the Company relies on its customer service staff to effectively serve the needs of its customers. The loss of key employees to competitors or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. We are subject to many operating risks, including, without limitation, data processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud. There can be no assurance that such an event will not occur, and if such an event is not prevented or detected by our other internal controls and does occur, and it is uninsured or is in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our reputation in the business community and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations could be interrupted if third party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. We depend, and will continue to depend to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third party service providers. Specifically, we utilize software and hardware systems for processing, essential web hosting, debit and credit card processing, merchant processing, Internet banking systems and other processing services from third party service providers. If these third party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other qualified service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. The Bank provides its customers the ability to bank online. We rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. The Bank’s network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, cyber-attacks, electronic fraudulent activity, attempted theft of financial assets, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. We cannot guarantee that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. While we have certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses or to modify and enhance the Bank’s protective measures. To the extent that the Bank’s activities or the activities of its customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us and the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent cyber-attacks, security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and our ability to generate deposits. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. In that regard, sweeping financial regulatory reform legislation was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the legislation (i) created a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, (ii) created a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies, (iii) will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking agencies, (iv) places new limits on electronic debit card interchange fees, and (v) requires the SEC and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The third installment of the Basel Accords (the “Basel III”) for U.S. financial institutions is expected to be phased in between 2013 and 2019. Basel III sets forth more robust global regulatory standards on capital adequacy, qualifying capital instruments, leverage ratios, market liquidity risk, and stress testing, which may be stricter than standards currently in place. The implementation of these new standards could have an adverse impact on our financial position and future earnings due to, among other things, the increased minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirements that will be implemented. These proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, may be adopted in the future, which could (1) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (2) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (4) otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects for business. Moreover, banking regulators have significant discretion and authority to address what regulators perceive to be unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority by banking regulators over us may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. The FDIC has implemented a plan to increase insurance premiums and imposed special assessments to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund, and any additional future premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect volatility in the amount of deposit assessments and corresponding FDIC premiums in the future. As the large number of bank failures depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund during the prior three years, the FDIC continues to revise risk-based deposit insurance assessments as necessary. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments and assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. As a result, the deposit insurance assessments to be paid by the Company could increase as a result. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board of Directors issued final rules, effective April 1, 2011, implementing changes to the assessment rules resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. The adopted regulations: (1) modify the definition of an institution’s deposit insurance assessment base; (2) alter certain adjustments to the assessment rates; (3) revise the assessment rate schedules in light of the new assessment base and altered adjustments; and (4) provide for the automatic adjustment of the assessment rates in the future when the reserve ratio reaches certain milestones. Despite the FDIC’s actions to restore the deposit insurance fund, the fund will suffer additional losses in the future due to failures of insured institutions. There may be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. The expiration of unlimited FDIC insurance on certain noninterest-bearing transaction accounts may increase our interest expense and reduce our liquidity. On December 31, 2012, unlimited FDIC insurance on certain noninterest-bearing transaction accounts under the Transaction Account Guarantee (“TAG”) program expired. Prior to its expiration, all funds under TAG in a noninterest-bearing transaction account were 19 Table of Contents insured in full by the FDIC from December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012. This temporary unlimited coverage was in addition to, and separate from, the coverage of at least $250,000 available to depositors under the FDIC’s general deposit insurance rules. The reduction in FDIC insurance on these noninterest-bearing transaction accounts to the standard $250,000 maximum may cause depositors to move funds previously held in such noninterest-bearing accounts to interest-bearing accounts, which could increase our costs of funds and negatively impact our results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest funds in investments perceived as being more secure. This could reduce the Company’s liquidity, or require us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. A natural disaster or recurring energy shortage, especially in California, could harm our business. Historically, California has been vulnerable to natural disasters. Therefore, we are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires, floods and mudslides. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our websites, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. California has also historically experienced energy shortages, which, if they recur, could impair the value of the real estate in those areas affected. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections and maintain business interruption insurance, these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters or energy shortages in California could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive. Stock price volatility may make it difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • Recommendations by securities analysts; • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry, including the failures of other financial institutions in the current economic downturn; • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • Public sentiments toward the financial services and banking industry generally; • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • Changes in government regulations; and • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results as evidenced by the recent volatility and disruption of capital and credit markets. In addition, our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the trading symbol “BOCH,” but there have historically been low trading volumes in our common stock. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue. 20 Table of Contents Our profitability measures could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively deploy the capital raised in our latest offering. On February 11, 2010, we filed a Form S-1 Registration Statement (the “Registration Statement”) with the SEC to offer $30.0 million of shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering (“Offering”). Additionally, we granted the underwriters in the Offering an option to purchase up to an additional $4.5 million of common stock to cover over-allotment, if any. On March 23, 2010, we filed a Form S-1/A Registration Statement (the “registration statement”) with the SEC to offer 7,200,000 shares of our common stock in the Offering. In the Registration Statement, we set out our intent to use the net proceeds of the Offering for general corporate purposes, including contributing additional capital to the Bank, supporting our ongoing and future anticipated growth, which may include opportunistic acquisitions of all or parts of other financial institutions, including FDIC-assisted transactions, and positioning us for eventual redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury. Although we are periodically engaged in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, we are not currently party to any purchase or merger agreement. On April 14, 2010 the Company announced that the underwriters of the Offering of common shares fully exercised their over-allotment option, which resulted in the issuance of an additional 1,080,000 shares of common stock, and approximately $4.4 million in additional net proceeds. The option was granted in connection with the Company’s public offering of 7,200,000 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $4.25 per share. With the additional proceeds from the exercise of the over-allotment option, the Company realized total net proceeds from the offering of approximately $33.0 million, after deducting the underwriting discount and offering expenses. The exercise of the over-allotment option brings the total number of shares of common stock sold by the Company in the offering to 8,280,000. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. In order to approve a merger or similar business combination with the owner of 20% or more of our common stock (an “Interested Shareholder”), our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that would require a supermajority vote of 66.7% of the outstanding shares of the common stock (excluding the shares held by the Interested Shareholder or its affiliates). These provisions further require that the per share consideration to be paid in such a transaction would have to equal or exceed the greater of (1) the highest per share price paid by the Interested Shareholder (a) within two years of the transaction proposal announcement date, or (b) the date the Interested Shareholder acquired a 20% -plus ownership interest (if the acquisition occurred less than two years before the transaction announcement) and (2) the fair market value of the Common Stock on (a) the transaction proposal announcement date, or (b) the date the Interested Shareholder acquired a 20% -plus ownership interest (if the acquisition occurred less than two years before the transaction announcement). The operation of these provisions could result in the Company becoming a less attractive target for a would-be acquirer. As a consequence, it is possible that shareholder would lose an opportunity to be paid a premium for their shares in an acquisition transaction. There may be future sales or other dilutions of our equity which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive our common stock. In addition, we are not prohibited from issuing additional securities which are senior to our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend in part on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings. Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in connection with our various stock option and equity compensation plans, in possible acquisitions, and any other offering of our common stock for cash, could have a dilutive effect on the market for our common stock and could adversely affect its market price. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize 50,000,000 shares of which 15,972,005 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2012. There are 342,437 shares subject to common stock options outstanding with a weighted average exercise price of $6.09 per share. Any future issuances of shares of our common stock will be dilutive to existing shareholders. The holders of our preferred stock and trust preferred securities have rights that are senior to those of our holders of common stock and that may impact our ability to pay dividends on our common stock to our common shareholders and reduce net income available to our common shareholders. At December 31, 2012, our subsidiary trusts had outstanding $15.5 million of trust preferred securities. These securities are effectively senior to shares of common stock due to the priority of the underlying junior subordinated debt. As a result, we must make payments on our trust preferred securities before any dividends can be paid on our common stock; moreover, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution, or liquidation, the obligations outstanding with respect to our trust preferred securities must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to our shareholders. While we have the right to defer dividends on the trust preferred securities for a period of up to five years, if any such election is made, no dividends may be paid to our common or preferred shareholders during that time. 21 Table of Contents On September 28, 2011, the Company issued and sold 20,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock to the Treasury pursuant to the Treasury’s SBLF program. Accordingly, we are required to pay non-cumulative dividends on the $20.0 million in Series B Preferred Stock. Such dividend rates may vary from 1% per annum to 5% per annum for the second through the tenth dividend periods, and from 1% per annum to 7% per annum for the eleventh through the first half of the nineteenth dividend periods. If the Series B Preferred Stock remains outstanding for more than four-and-one-half years, the dividend rate will be fixed at 9%. Such dividends are not cumulative, but the Company may only declare and pay dividends on its common stock (or any other equity securities junior to the Series B Preferred Stock) if it has declared and paid dividends for the current dividend period on the Series B Preferred Stock, and will be subject to other restrictions on its ability to repurchase or redeem other securities. In addition, if (1) the Company has not timely declared and paid dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock for six dividend periods or more, whether or not consecutive, and (2) shares of Series B Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference of at least $20 million are still outstanding, the Treasury (or any successor holder of Series B Preferred Stock) may designate two additional directors to be elected to the Company’s Board of Directors. Our future ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock is subject to restrictions. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we have no material source of income other than dividends received from the Bank. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders will depend on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us. Moreover, banks and financial holding companies are both subject to certain federal and state regulatory restrictions on cash dividends. We are also restricted from paying dividends if we have deferred payments of the interest on, or an event of default has occurred with respect to, our trust preferred securities or Series B Preferred Stock. Additionally, terms and conditions of our Series B Preferred Stock place certain restrictions and limitations on our common stock dividends and repurchases of our common stock. Potential Volatility of Deposits The Bank’s depositors could choose to withdraw their deposits from the Bank and then put it into alternative investments, causing an increase in our funding costs and reducing net interest income. Checking, savings and money market account balances can decrease when customers perceive that alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move funds out of bank deposits into other investments, the Bank will lose a relatively low cost source of funds, thereby increasing our funding costs. At December 31, 2012, time certificates of deposit in excess of $250,000 represented approximately 9% of the dollar value of the total deposits of the Company. As such, these deposits are considered volatile and could be subject to withdrawal. Withdrawal of a material amount of such deposits could adversely affect the liquidity of our profitability, business prospects, results of operations and cash flows. The Company regularly monitors activity of volatile liability deposits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None to report. 