Item 1A. Risk Factors The business of the Corporation and the Bank involve significant risks as described below. Additional risks may arise in the future or risks that are currently not considered significant may also impact the operations of the Corporation and the Bank. The Corporation may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by reports filed with the SEC in the future. Management’s ability to analyze and manage these and other risks could affect the future financial results of the Corporation. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation could suffer and the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline. Interest rate movements impact the earnings of the Corporation. The Corporation is exposed to interest rate risk, through the operations of its banking subsidiary, since substantially all of the Bank’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. Interest rate risk arises from market driven fluctuations in interest rates that affect cash flows, income, expense and value of financial instruments. -12- The Bank’s earnings, like that of most financial institutions, largely depends on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. In an increasing interest rate environment, the cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the interest earned on the loans and securities because the primary source of funds are deposits with generally shorter maturities than the maturities on loans and investment securities. This causes the net interest rate spread to compress and negatively impacts the Bank’s profitability. Changes in interest rates may also adversely affect the Corporation’s loan and deposit growth and the quality of its loan portfolio. The Corporation actively manages its interest rate sensitivity positions. The objectives of interest rate risk management are to control exposure of net interest income to risks associated with interest rate movements and to achieve consistent growth in net interest income. Continued aggressive pricing by competitors for loans and deposits may adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation is exposed to risks in connection with loans the Bank makes and if the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, the Corporation’s earnings could decrease. A significant source of risk for the Corporation arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Corporation has underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that are believed to be adequate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying loan portfolios. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb estimated probable credit losses. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is based on periodic evaluations of the loan portfolio and other relevant factors. However, this evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires significant estimates by management. Consideration is given to a variety of factors in establishing these estimates including historical losses, current and anticipated economic conditions, diversification of the loan portfolio, delinquency statistics, results of internal loan reviews, borrowers’ perceived financial and management strengths, the adequacy of underlying collateral, the dependence on collateral, or the strength of the present value of future cash flows and other relevant factors. These factors may be susceptible to significant change. To the extent actual outcomes differ from management estimates, additional provisions for loan losses may be required which may adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations in the future. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Corporation to recognize additions to the allowance based on their judgment of information available to them at the time of their examination. If economic conditions weaken in the geographic region served by the Corporation, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations. The Corporation is a bank holding company and its operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of the Corporation’s assets are held by its direct and indirect subsidiaries. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Its principal banking subsidiary, Harleysville National Bank, is its primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from its banking subsidiaries are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of banking subsidiaries to pay dividends is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that the Corporation’s subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that the Corporation will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Additionally, beginning in the third quarter of 2009, the Corporation stopped paying dividends on its common stock in order to conserve capital. The Corporation’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. -13- The Corporation may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from mergers. The success of mergers will depend, in part, on the Corporation’s ability to realize the estimated cost savings or revenue enhancements from combining the businesses of the merged companies. If the Corporation’s estimates are incorrect or the Corporation is unable to combine acquired companies successfully, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be disruptions that cause the Bank to lose customers or cause customers to withdraw their deposits from the Bank, or other unintended consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s results of operations or financial condition. Future acquisitions by the Corporation could dilute shareholder ownership of the Corporation and may cause the Corporation to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. The Corporation has acquired other companies with its common stock in the past and may acquire or make investments in banks and other complementary businesses in the future. The Corporation may issue shares of its common stock in connection with these potential acquisitions and other investments, which would dilute shareholder ownership interest in the Corporation in the event that shareholders receive consideration in the form of the Corporation’s common stock. While there is no assurance that these transactions will occur, or that they will occur on terms favorable to the Corporation, future business acquisitions could be material to the Corporation, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses into the Corporation could have a material effect on the value of Corporation’s common stock. In addition, any such acquisition could require the Corporation to expend substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt, which could cause the Corporation to become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. An economic downturn in eastern Pennsylvania or a general decline in economic conditions could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. The Bank’s operations are concentrated in eastern Pennsylvania and to a lesser degree central and southern New Jersey and Delaware. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Corporation’s financial results may correlate to the economic conditions in this area. Deterioration in economic conditions in this market area, particularly in the industries on which this geographic areas depend, or a general decline in economic conditions may adversely affect the quality of the loan portfolio (including the level of non-performing assets, charge offs and provision expense) and the demand for products and services, and accordingly, the Corporation’s results of operations. The Corporation's market area has been subject to a prolonged economic downturn, which has led to a decline in the quality of the loan portfolio. Economic conditions could continue to adversely effect the Corporation's financial results. Inflation has some impact on the Corporation’s and the Bank’s operating costs. The soundness of other financial institutions may adversely affect the Corporation. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Corporation cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Corporation. Such losses could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility may have materially adverse effects on the Corporation’s liquidity, financial condition and/or profitability. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, security prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market -14- disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not experience adverse effects, which may be material, on its liquidity, financial condition and/or profitability. Strong competition within the Corporation’s market area may limit its growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Bank competes actively with other eastern Pennsylvania financial institutions as well as with financial and non-financial institutions, many larger than the Bank, headquartered elsewhere. Commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and money market funds actively compete for deposits and loans. Such institutions, as well as consumer finance, insurance companies and brokerage firms, may be considered competitors with respect to one or more services they render. The Bank is generally competitive with all competing institutions in its service areas with respect to interest rates paid on time and savings deposits, service charges on deposit accounts, interest rates charged on loans and fees for trust and investment advisory services. Many of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer certain services that the Bank does not or cannot provide. The Corporation’s profitability depends upon the Bank’s ability to successfully compete in its market area. The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Corporation and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by certain state and federal agencies including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as regulator of the holding company and the Office of the Comptroller of Currency. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on the Bank’s and the Corporation’s operations. There are also several federal and state statutes which regulate the obligation and liabilities of financial institutions pertaining to environmental issues. In addition to the potential for attachment of liability resulting from its own actions, a bank may be held liable under certain circumstances for the actions of its borrowers, or third parties, when such actions result in environmental problems on properties that collateralize loans held by the bank. Further, the liability has the potential to far exceed the original amount of a loan issued by the bank. If the Corporation concludes that the decline in value of any of its investment securities is other than temporary, the Corporation will be required to write down the credit-related portion of the impairment of that security through a charge to earnings. Harleysville National Corporation reviews its investment securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of the Corporation’s investment securities has declined below its carrying value, the Corporation is required to assess whether the decline is other than temporary. If the Corporation concludes that the decline is other than temporary, it will be required to write down the credit-related portion of the impairment of that security through a charge to earnings. Due to the complexity of the calculations and assumptions used in determining whether an asset, such as a pooled trust preferred security, is impaired, the impairment disclosed may not accurately reflect the actual impairment in the future. Harleysville National Corporation borrows from the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve, and there can be no assurance these programs will continue in their current manner. Harleysville National Corporation at times utilizes the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Pittsburgh for overnight borrowings and term advances; Harleysville National Corporation also has the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve through the discount window and from correspondent banks under our federal funds lines of -15- credit. The amount loaned to Harleysville National Corporation is generally dependent on the value of the collateral pledged. These lenders could reduce the percentages loaned against various collateral categories, could eliminate certain types of collateral and could otherwise modify or even terminate their loan programs. Any change or termination would have an adverse affect on Harleysville National Corporation’s liquidity and profitability. Risks related to the Merger with First Niagara Financial Group, Inc. (“First Niagara”) The Merger Agreement May Be Terminated in Accordance With Its Terms and The Merger May Not Be Completed. The agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement” by and between Harleysville National Corporation and First Niagara is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to close. Those conditions include: regulatory approval, the continued accuracy of certain representations and warranties by both parties and the performance by both parties of certain covenants and agreements. Certain circumstances exist where Harleysville National Corporation may choose to terminate the merger agreement, including the acceptance of a superior proposal or the decline in First Niagara’s share price to below $9.28 as of the first date when all regulatory approvals for the merger have been received combined with such decline being at least 20% greater than a corresponding price decline of the Nasdaq Bank Index, with no adjustment made to the exchange ratio by First Niagara. Under such circumstances, First Niagara may, but is not required to, increase the exchange ratio in order to avoid termination of the merger agreement. First Niagara has not determined whether it would increase the exchange ratio in order to avoid termination of the merger agreement by Harleysville National Corporation. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing the merger will be fulfilled or that the merger will be completed. Termination of the Merger Agreement Could Negatively Impact Harleysville National Corporation. First Niagara may terminate the Merger Agreement for the reasons set forth in the Merger Agreement. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, there may be various consequences including: • Harleysville National Corporation’s businesses may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger; and • the market price of Harleysville National Corporation common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and Harleysville National Corporation’s board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, Harleysville National Corporation shareholders cannot be certain that Harleysville National Corporation will be able to find a party willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than the price First Niagara has agreed to pay in the merger. Regulatory Approvals for the Merger May Not be Received, May Take Longer Than Expected or May Impose Conditions That are Not Presently Anticipated or Cannot be Met. Before the transactions contemplated in the Merger Agreement may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”), and the Federal Reserve Bank. These governmental entities, including the OCC, may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or the bank merger or require changes to the terms of the Merger Agreement. Although Harleysville National Corporation does not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the transactions contemplated in the Merger Agreement or imposing additional costs on or limiting First Niagara’s revenues, any of which might have a material adverse -16- effect on First Niagara following the merger. There can be no assurance as to whether the regulatory approvals will be received, the timing of those approvals, or whether any conditions will be imposed. If the Merger Agreement is Terminated, Certain Pre-Merger Transactions Between First Niagara and Harleysville National Corporation Designed to Alleviate Regulatory Pressure on Harleysville National Bank May Not Have Their Intended Results. On May 28, 2009, the OCC imposed an individual minimum capital requirement on Harleysville National Bank, requiring it to increase its regulatory capital ratios. To enable Harleysville National Bank to achieve and maintain capital ratios consistent with those of a “well-capitalized” institution not subject to individual minimum capital ratios pending completion of the merger, and to address the OCC’s supervisory concerns, in the fourth quarter of 2009, First Niagara loaned $50 million to Harleysville National Corporation, the proceeds of which were contributed to Harleysville National Bank as Tier One capital. The loan is secured by a pledge of all of the stock of Harleysville National Bank. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, Harleysville National Corporation will have between 30 and 90 days to repay the loan to First Niagara (subject to immediate acceleration if Harleysville National Bank is “significantly undercapitalized” under regulatory standards). If Harleysville National Corporation cannot repay the loan by its due date, First Niagara could foreclose on the stock of Harleysville National Bank under the pledge security agreement. There can be no assurance that Harleysville National Corporation will be able to raise funds sufficient to repay the loan from First Niagara if the merger agreement is terminated. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Overview.” If the Merger is Not Consummated by May 31, 2010, Additional Restrictions May be Imposed Upon Harleysville National Bank and Trust Company by its Regulators. On May 5, 2009, Harleysville National Bank and Trust Company (the “Bank”) was advised by the OCC that the deadline by which the Bank must meet certain individual minimum capital ratios had been extended from March 31, 2010 to May 31, 2010. If the Merger is not consummated by May 31, 2010 and the Bank cannot meet the individual minimum capital ratios by that date, the OCC could impose additional regulatory restrictions on the Bank, which could materially adversely impact the Bank and, as a result, the operating results and financial condition of the Corporation. Harleysville National Corporation’s Asset Quality May Deteriorate Prior to Completion of the Merger. Harleysville National Corporation’s nonperforming assets were $133.6 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $78.5 million at December 31, 2008. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets were 2.58% at December 31 compared to 1.43% at December 31, 2008. Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $15.1 million compared to $2.6 million in the same period of 2008. The allowance for credit losses increased to $66.6 million at December 31, 2009, compared to $50.0 million at December 31, 2008. Should these adverse trends continue, they may have an adverse effect on Harleysville National Corporation’s financial and capital positions, and may differ from First Niagara’s estimates thereof. First Niagara Could Record Future Impairment Losses on Harleysville National Corporation’s Holdings of Investment Securities Available For Sale. First Niagara May Not Receive Full Future Interest Payments on These Securities. Harleysville National Corporation’s investment portfolio of securities available for sale includes trust preferred securities, private label collateralized mortgage obligations, collateralized debt obligations and equity securities. Harleysville National Corporation recognized other than temporary impairment charges totaling -17- approximately $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as a result of impairment charges mainly on collateralized debt obligations as well as collateralized mortgage obligations and certain equity securities. If the merger with Harleysville National Corporation is completed, First Niagara will take ownership of these securities. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause First Niagara to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an additional impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to First Niagara. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render First Niagara unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of these investment securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. First Niagara May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Merger. The success of the merger will depend on, among other things, First Niagara’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of First Niagara Bank and Harleysville National Bank in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of Harleysville National Bank nor result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If First Niagara is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. First Niagara and Harleysville National Corporation have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. Certain employees of Harleysville National Corporation will not be employed by First Niagara after the merger. In addition, employees of Harleysville National Corporation that First Niagara wishes to retain may elect to terminate their employment as a result of the merger which could delay or disrupt the integration process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of Harleysville National Corporation’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of First Niagara to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Harleysville National Corporation Shareholders Cannot Be Certain of the Market Value of The Merger Consideration They Will Receive Because the Market Price of First Niagara Common Stock Will Fluctuate. Upon completion of the merger, each share of Harleysville National Corporation common stock will be converted into merger consideration consisting of 0.474 shares of First Niagara common stock. The market value of the merger consideration may vary from the closing price of First Niagara common stock on the date it announced the merger, on the date of the special meeting of the Harleysville National Corporation shareholders and on the date it completes the merger and thereafter. Any change in the market price of First Niagara common stock prior to completion of the merger will affect the market value of the merger consideration that Harleysville National Corporation shareholders will receive upon completion of the merger. Accordingly, Harleysville National Corporation shareholders will not know or be able to calculate with certainty the market value of the merger consideration they would receive upon completion of the merger. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in its respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond First Niagara’s control. Harleysville National Corporation Shareholders Will Have a Reduced Ownership and Voting Interest After the Merger and Will Exercise Less Influence Over Management. Harleysville National Corporation’s shareholders currently have the right to vote in the election of the Harleysville National Corporation board of directors and on other matters affecting Harleysville National Corporation. When the merger occurs, each Harleysville National Corporation shareholder that receives shares of -18- First Niagara common stock will become a shareholder of First Niagara with a percentage ownership of the combined organization that is much smaller than the shareholder’s percentage ownership of Harleysville National Corporation. Because of this, Harleysville National Corporation’s shareholders will have less influence on the management and policies of First Niagara than they now have on the management and policies of Harleysville National Corporation. The Merger Agreement Limits Harleysville National Corporation’s Ability to Pursue Alternatives to the Merger and Raise Capital. The Merger Agreement contains “no shop” provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, limit Harleysville National Corporation’s ability to discuss, facilitate or commit to competing third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of Harleysville National Corporation. In addition, Harleysville National Corporation has agreed to pay First Niagara a termination fee in the amount of $10.0 million in the event that Harleysville National Corporation terminates the merger agreement for certain reasons. These provisions might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Harleysville National Corporation from considering or proposing that acquisition even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share market price than that proposed in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquiror’s proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Harleysville National Corporation than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. Harleysville National Corporation can consider and participate in discussions and negotiations with respect to an alternative proposal so long as the Harleysville National Corporation board of directors determines in good faith (after consultation with legal counsel) that failure to do so would be reasonably likely to result in a violation of its fiduciary duties to Harleysville National Corporation shareholders under applicable law. Moreover, the Merger Agreement restricts the Corporation’s ability to solicit additional capital, which may be needed to meet certain regulatory requirements or to fund day-to-day operations. The Merger is Subject to the Receipt of Consents and Approvals From Government Entities that May Impose Conditions that Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Combined Company Following the Merger. Before the merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from the Office of Thrift Supervision and other governmental entities. These government entities, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. Although First Niagara and Harleysville National Corporation do not currently expect that any such material conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of First Niagara following the merger, any of which might have a material adverse effect on First Niagara following the merger. The Merger is Subject to Closing Conditions, that, if Not Satisfied or Waived, Will Result in the Merger Not Being Completed, Which May Result in Material Adverse Consequences to Harleysville National Corporation’s Business and Operations. The merger is subject to closing conditions that, if not satisfied, will prevent the merger from being completed. In addition to the required approvals and consents from governmental, the merger is subject to other conditions beyond First Niagara’s and Harleysville National Corporation’s control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. First Niagara and Harleysville National Corporation cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. The Shares of First Niagara Common Stock to be Received by Harleysville National Corporation Shareholders as a Result of the Merger Will Have Different Rights From the Shares of Harleysville National Corporation Common Stock. Upon completion of the merger, Harleysville National Corporation shareholders will become First Niagara shareholders and their rights as shareholders will be governed by the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of -19- First Niagara. The rights associated with Harleysville National Corporation common stock are different from the rights associated with First Niagara common stock. Several Lawsuits Have Been Filed Against Harleysville National Corporation and the Members of the Harleysville National Corporation Board of Directors, As Well As First Niagara, Challenging the Merger, and an Adverse Judgment in Such Lawsuits May Prevent the Merger From Becoming Effective or From Becoming Effective Within the Expected Timeframe. Harleysville National Corporation and the members of the Harleysville National Corporation board of directors are named as defendants in purported class action lawsuits brought by Harleysville National Corporation shareholders challenging the proposed merger, seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from consummating the merger on the agreed-upon terms. First Niagara is also named as a defendant in some, but not all, of these lawsuits. Additionally, the directors of Harleysville National Corporation have been named as defendants in four shareholder derivative lawsuits that also seek, among other things, to enjoin the consummation of the merger. One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no order, decree or injunction issued by a court or agency of competent jurisdiction that enjoins or prohibits the consummation of the merger shall be in effect. As such, if the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the defendants from consummating the merger on the agreed upon terms, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective, or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -20- Item 