ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties — many of which are beyond our control — that may cause our actual operating results or financial performance to be materially different from our expectations. If one or more of the events discussed in the following risks were to occur, actual outcomes could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements we make in this report or our other filings with the SEC, and our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected; furthermore, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. We cannot predict with certainty the ultimate net effect that the Affordable Care Act may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Affordable Care Act is changing how health care services in the United States are covered, delivered and reimbursed. The expansion of health insurance coverage under the law may result in a material increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage. However, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act on our future revenues and operations at this time due to uncertainty regarding a number of material factors, including: 23 Table of Contents · how many states will ultimately implement the Medicaid expansion provisions and under what terms (a number of states in which we operate, including Florida and Texas, have chosen not to expand their Medicaid programs at this time); · how many currently uninsured individuals will obtain coverage (either private health insurance or Medicaid) as a result of the Affordable Care Act; · what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the Medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; · the extent to which states will enroll new Medicaid participants in managed care programs; · the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; · the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; · the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals, including those covered through the newly created exchanges and those who might be covered under the Medicaid program under contracts with the state; · the rate paid by state governments under the Medicaid program for newly covered individuals; · the percentage of individuals in the exchanges who select the high-deductible plans, considering that health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; · the extent to which the provisions of the Affordable Care Act will put pressure on the profitability of health insurers, which in turn might cause them to seek to reduce payments to hospitals with respect to both newly insured individuals and their existing business; and · the possibility that the Affordable Care Act or components of it will be delayed, revised or eliminated as a result of court challenges or actions by Congress. Furthermore, the Affordable Care Act provides for significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH payments, and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. A substantial portion of both our patient volumes and, as result, our revenues is derived from government health care programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid. Any reductions to our reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs by the Affordable Care Act could adversely affect our business and results of operations to the extent such reductions are not offset by increased revenues from providing care to previously uninsured individuals. It is difficult to predict the effect on our revenues resulting from reductions to Medicare and Medicaid spending because of uncertainty regarding a number of material factors, including the following: · the amount of overall revenues we will generate from the Medicare and Medicaid programs when the reductions are implemented; · whether future reductions required by the Affordable Care Act will be changed by statute prior to becoming effective; · the size of the law’s annual productivity adjustment to the market basket; · the amount of the Medicare DSH reductions that will be made commencing in FFY 2014; · the allocation to our hospitals of the Medicaid DSH reductions commencing in FFY 2016; · what the losses in revenues, if any, will be from the law’s quality initiatives; · how successful accountable care networks in which we participate will be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement; · the scope and nature of potential changes to Medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; and 24 Table of Contents · reductions to Medicare payments CMS may impose for “excessive readmissions.” In addition, the federally run exchanges, and several of the state-run exchanges, have faced operational hurdles and challenges in the initial period of their operation, which could reduce the number of individuals that obtain coverage through the exchanges in the short term. Further, we may continue to experience a high level of bad debt expense and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented aliens who will not be permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government health care program. In general, there is significant uncertainty with respect to the positive and negative effects the Affordable Care Act may have on reimbursement, utilization and the future design of provider networks and insurance plans (including pricing, provider participation, coverage, co-pays and deductibles), and the multiple models that attempt to predict those effects may differ materially from our expectations. Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict the ultimate net effect on us of the expected decreases in uninsured individuals using our facilities, the reductions in Medicare spending and Medicare and Medicaid DSH funding, and numerous other provisions in the Affordable Care Act that may affect us. Moreover, we are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local health care regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations. Further changes in the regulatory framework affecting health care providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to enter into and maintain managed care contractual arrangements on acceptable terms, if we experience material reductions in the contracted rates we receive from managed care payers or if we have difficulty collecting from managed care payers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We currently have thousands of managed care contracts with various HMOs and PPOs. The amount of our managed care net patient revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013 was $6.3 billion, which represented approximately 58% of our total net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts. Approximately 59% of our managed care net patient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 was derived from our top ten managed care payers. In the year ended December 31, 2013, our commercial managed care net inpatient revenue per admission from our acute care hospitals was approximately 76% higher than our aggregate yield on a per admission basis from government payers, including managed Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans. In addition, at December 31, 2013, approximately 58% of our net accounts receivable related to continuing operations were due from managed care payers. Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with HMOs, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. In addition, private payers are increasingly attempting to control health care costs through direct contracting with hospitals to provide services on a discounted basis, increased utilization reviews and greater enrollment in managed care programs, such as HMOs and PPOs. The trend toward consolidation among private managed care payers tends to increase their bargaining power over prices and fee structures. It is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on private payers imposed by the health care reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases. However, as various provisions of the Affordable Care Act are implemented, including the establishment of the exchanges, non-government payers may increasingly demand reduced fees. In most cases, we negotiate our managed care contracts annually as they come up for renewal at various times during the year. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to renew existing managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Other health care companies, including some with greater financial resources, greater geographic coverage or a wider range of services, may compete with us for these opportunities. For example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. Any material reductions in the contracted rates we receive for our services, coupled with any difficulties in collecting receivables from managed care payers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any material adverse effects resulting from future reductions in payments from private payers could be exacerbated if we are not able to manage our operating costs effectively. Further changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs or other government health care programs could have an adverse effect on our business. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 22% of our net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts for our general hospitals were related to the Medicare program, and approximately 9% of our net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts for our general hospitals were related to various state Medicaid programs, in each case excluding Medicare and Medicaid managed care programs. In addition to the changes affected by the Affordable Care Act, the Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to: other statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations 25 Table of Contents and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements, among other things; requirements for utilization review; and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to our patients and the timing of payments to our facilities, which could in turn adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any material adverse effects resulting from future reductions in payments from government programs could be exacerbated if we are not able to manage our operating costs effectively. Several states in which we operate continue to face budgetary challenges due to the economic downturn and other factors that have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in reduced Medicaid funding levels to hospitals and other providers. Because most states must operate with balanced budgets, and the Medicaid program is generally a significant portion of a state’s budget, states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting future legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. In addition, some states are implementing delays in issuing Medicaid payments to providers. As an alternative means of funding provider payments, most of the states in which we operate have adopted broad-based provider taxes to fund the non-federal share of Medicaid programs. Continuing pressure on state budgets and other factors could result in future reductions to Medicaid payments, payment delays or additional taxes on hospitals. In general, we are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited, or if we or one or more of our subsidiaries’ hospitals are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government health care program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. We believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other health care facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal health care programs. Medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. In addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have “excess readmissions” for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. Furthermore, Medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions, also known as HACs, unless the conditions were present at admission. Beginning in FFY 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for HACs in the previous year will receive reduced Medicare reimbursements. The Affordable Care Act also prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. There is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of health care services, as well. Many large commercial payers require hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. Our business continues to be adversely affected by a high volume of uninsured and underinsured patients, as well as declines in commercial managed care patients. Like other organizations in the health care industry, we continue to provide services to a high volume of uninsured patients and more patients than in prior years with increased burdens of co-pays and deductibles due to changes in their health care plans. As a result, we continue to experience a high level of uncollectible accounts, and, unless our business mix shifts toward a greater number of insured patients as a result of the Affordable Care Act or otherwise, the trend of higher co-pays and deductibles reverses, or the economy improves and unemployment rates decline, we anticipate this high level of uncollectible accounts to continue or increase. In addition, even after implementation of the Affordable Care Act, we may continue to experience significant levels of bad debt expense and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government health care program. Over the past several years, we have experienced declines in our commercial managed care volumes, which in the aggregate generate substantially higher yields than Medicare and Medicaid volumes. The declines in our commercial managed 26 Table of Contents care volumes are due, in part, to the related effects of higher unemployment and reductions in commercial managed care enrollment. In addition, we believe that the growth in high-deductible health plans has adversely impacted commercial managed care volumes. Our hospitals, outpatient centers and other health care businesses operate in competitive environments, and competition is one reason increases in patient volumes have been constrained. The health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals and outpatient centers in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those we offer, and, in some cases, competing facilities (1) are more established or newer than ours, (2) may offer a broader array of services to patients and physicians than ours, and (3) may have larger or more specialized medical staffs to admit and refer patients, among other things. Furthermore, health care consumers are now able to access hospital performance data on quality measures and patient satisfaction, as well as standard charges for services, to compare competing providers; if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys, or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, we may attract fewer patients. Additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. Continued consolidation in the health care industry will be a leading factor contributing to greater competition in our current markets and markets we may enter in the future. We also face increased competition from specialty hospitals (some of which are physician-owned) and unaffiliated freestanding outpatient centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. Furthermore, some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by government agencies or not-for-profit organizations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. As is the case with our hospitals, some of our health plan competitors are owned by governmental agencies or non-profit corporations that have greater financial resources than we do. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than we are, we may experience an overall decline in patient volumes We could be subject to substantial uninsured liabilities or increased insurance costs as a result of significant legal actions. We are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. Some of these actions may involve large demands, as well as substantial defense costs. Even in states that have imposed caps on damages, litigants are seeking recoveries under new theories of liability that might not be subject to such caps. Our professional and general liability insurance does not cover all claims against us, and it may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain at adequate levels, as the health care industry has seen significant increases in the cost of such insurance due to increased litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of current or future legal actions against us or the effect that judgments or settlements in such matters may have on us or on our insurance costs. Additionally, all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. If the aggregate limit of any of our professional and general liability policies is exhausted, in whole or in part, it could deplete or reduce the limits available to pay any other material claims applicable to that policy period. Any losses not covered by or in excess of the amounts maintained under insurance policies will be funded from our working capital. Furthermore, one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill its or their obligations to defend, pay or reimburse us when those obligations become due. In that case or if payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to recruit and retain an appropriate number of quality physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, our business may suffer. The success of our business depends in significant part on the number, quality and specialties of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. Although we operate physician practices and, where permitted by law, employ physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. Such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals or admit their patients to competing hospitals at any time. In some of our markets, physician recruitment and retention are affected by a shortage of physicians in certain specialties and the difficulties that physicians can experience in obtaining affordable malpractice insurance or finding insurers willing to provide such insurance. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of quality physicians by providing adequate support personnel, technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the 27 Table of Contents needs of those physicians and their patients, physicians may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. Our labor costs could be adversely affected by competition for staffing, the shortage of experienced nurses and labor union activity. Our hospital operations depend on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our employed physicians. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining physicians and qualified management responsible for the daily operations of our hospitals. In addition, like others in the health care industry, we continue to experience a shortage of seasoned nurses in certain key specialties and geographic areas. As a result, from time to time, we may be required to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain experienced nurses, make greater investments in education and training for newly licensed nurses, or hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. Furthermore, state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios in California affect not only our labor costs, but, if we are unable to hire the necessary number of experienced nurses to meet the required ratios, they may also cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. In general, our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, experienced nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. At December 31, 2013, approximately 21% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. These employees — primarily registered nurses and service and maintenance workers — were located at 39 of our hospitals, the majority of which are in California, Florida and Michigan. We currently have two expired contracts and are negotiating renewals under extension agreements. We are also negotiating an initial contract at one of our hospitals where employees recently chose union representation. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of the negotiations, but increases in salaries, wages and benefits could result from these agreements. Furthermore, there is a possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, which could increase our labor costs and have an adverse effect on our patient volumes and net operating revenues. Future organizing activities by labor unions could increase our level of union representation in 2014; to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. Conifer’s future success also depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel. Competition for the caliber and number of employees we require at Conifer is intense. We may face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training Conifer’s employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our Conifer employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring, integrating and training their replacements, and the quality of Conifer’s services and its ability to serve its customers could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on that segment of our business. Our business and financial results could be harmed by violations of existing regulations or compliance with new or changed regulations. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, privacy of patient information, ownership of facilities, physician relationships, addition of facilities and services, and reimbursement rates for services. The laws, rules and regulations governing the health care industry are extremely complex and, in certain areas, the industry has little or no regulatory or judicial interpretation for guidance. If a determination is made that we were in violation of such laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to penalties or liabilities or required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, Conifer’s failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to it could result in reduced demand for its services, invalidate all or portions of some of Conifer’s services agreements with its customers, or give customers the right to terminate Conifer’s services agreements with them, among other things, any of which could have an adverse effect on Conifer’s business. Even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of law could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock and our business reputation could suffer. Furthermore, health care, as one of the largest industries in the United States, continues to attract much legislative interest and public attention. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations. Further changes in the regulatory framework negatively affecting health care providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are also required to comply with various federal and state labor laws, rules and regulations governing a variety of workplace wage and hour issues. From time to time, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory proceedings and private litigation concerning our application of such laws, rules and regulations. 28 Table of Contents Conifer operates in a highly competitive industry, and its current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than Conifer does, which could have a material adverse effect on Conifer’s business, revenue, growth rate and market share. We intend to continue expanding Conifer’s revenue cycle management, patient communications and engagement services, and management services businesses by marketing these services to non-Tenet hospitals and other healthcare-related entities. However, the market for Conifer’s solutions is highly competitive, and we expect competition may intensify in the future. Conifer faces competition from existing participants and new entrants to the revenue cycle management market (including software vendors and other technology-supported revenue cycle management outsourcing companies, traditional consultants and information technology outsourcing firms), as well as from the internal staffs of hospitals and other health care providers who, as described above, handle these processes internally. To be successful, Conifer must respond more quickly and effectively than its competitors to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, regulations and customer requirements. Moreover, existing or new competitors may introduce technologies or services that render Conifer’s technologies or services obsolete or less marketable. Even if Conifer’s technologies and services are more effective than the offerings of its competitors, current or potential customers might prefer competitive technologies or services to Conifer’s technologies and services. Furthermore, increased competition may result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact Conifer’s margins, growth rate or market share. The failure to comply with debt collection and consumer credit reporting regulations could subject Conifer’s SOS subsidiary to fines and other liabilities, which could harm Conifer’s reputation and business, and could make it more difficult for Conifer to retain existing customers or attract new customers. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act regulates persons who regularly collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, consumer debts owed or asserted to be owed to another person. Certain of the accounts receivable handled by SOS, Conifer’s debt collection agency subsidiary, are subject to the FDCPA. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. Moreover, regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions. SOS could be subject to fines or other penalties if it is determined to have violated the FDCPA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act or analogous state laws, which could make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers and could otherwise harm Conifer’s business. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, catastrophic events and other disruptions affecting our information technology and related systems. As a provider of health care services, we rely on our information technology in the day-to-day operation of our business to process, transmit and store sensitive or confidential data, including electronic health records, other protected health information, and financial, payment and other personal data of patients, as well as to store our proprietary and confidential business performance data. We utilize a diversified data and voice network, along with technology systems for billing, supply chain, clinical information systems and labor management. Although we have redundancies and other measures designed to protect the security and availability of the data we process, transmit and store, our information technology and infrastructure is vulnerable to computer viruses, attacks by hackers, or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance. Furthermore, our networks and technology systems are subject to disruption due to events such as a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event. Any such breach or system interruption could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse or loss of confidential, sensitive or proprietary information, could negatively impact our ability to conduct normal business operations (including the collection of revenues), and could result in potential liability and damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Economic downturns and other economic factors have affected, and may continue to impact, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to be impacted by a number of industry-wide challenges, including constrained growth in patient volumes and high levels of bad debt expense. We believe factors associated with the recent economic downturn — including higher levels of unemployment, reductions in commercial managed care enrollment, and patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergency health care procedures — have affected our volumes and our ability to collect outstanding receivables. The U.S. economy remains volatile. Instability in consumer spending and high unemployment rates continue to pressure many industries. 29 Table of Contents If industry trends or general economic conditions worsen, we may not be able to sustain future profitability, and our liquidity and ability to repay our outstanding debt may be harmed. Furthermore, the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of many business operations worldwide has been limited in recent years. Our ability to access the capital markets on acceptable terms may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have a negative impact on our growth plans, our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions, and our ability to refinance existing debt. The economic downturn or other economic conditions could also adversely affect the counterparties to our agreements, including the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Trends affecting our actual or anticipated results may require us to record charges that would adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of factors that have negatively affected our industry generally and our business specifically, we have been required to record various charges in our results of operations. Our impairment tests presume stable, improving or, in some cases, declining operating results in our hospitals, which are based on programs and initiatives being implemented that are designed to achieve the hospitals’ most recent projections. If these projections are not met, or negative trends occur that impact our future outlook, future impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill may occur, and we may incur additional restructuring charges. Future restructuring of our operating structure that changes our goodwill reporting units could also result in future impairments of our goodwill. Any such charges could adversely affect our results of operations. The amount and terms of our current and any future debt could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $10.8 billion of total long-term debt, as well as approximately $189 million in standby letters of credit outstanding under our senior secured revolving credit facility, which is collateralized by patient accounts receivable of all of our wholly owned acute care and specialty hospitals. From time to time, we expect to engage in additional capital market, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at that time. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: · Our credit agreement and indentures contain, and any future debt obligations may contain, covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and sell assets. Our credit agreement also requires us to maintain a financial ratio relating to our ability to satisfy certain fixed expenses, including interest payments. The indentures contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur liens, consummate asset sales, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, or consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our or their assets. If we do not comply with these obligations, it may cause an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay the indebtedness immediately. Under these conditions, we are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make accelerated payments. · We may be more vulnerable in the event of a deterioration in our business, in the health care industry or in the economy generally, or if federal or state governments set further limitations on reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs. · We are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which reduces the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and acquisitions. · Our substantial indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, acquisitions or other needs. We have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our credit agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes and senior secured notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. 30 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully integrate Vanguard’s business with our business to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or do so within the intended timeframe. The success of our acquisition of Vanguard will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate Vanguard’s business and operations with our business and fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our business with Vanguard’s business. On October 1, 2013 (the effective date of the acquisition), we acquired 28 hospitals (plus one more under construction), 39 outpatient centers and five health plans with approximately 140,000 members. As such, we are devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Vanguard with ours. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: · The costs of integration and compliance and the possibility that the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition will not be realized; · Delays in the integration of strategies, operations and services; · Diversion of the attention of our management as a result of the acquisition; · Differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies that may delay successful integration; · Retaining key executives and other employees; · Challenges associated with creating and enforcing uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · Complexities associated with managing Vanguard as a subsidiary of Tenet, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of Vanguard into those of Tenet in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on patients, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; · Potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including one-time cash costs to integrate Vanguard beyond current estimates; and · The disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses. If we are unable to successfully overcome the potential difficulties associated with the integration process and achieve our objectives following the acquisition, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Any failure to timely realize these anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The utilization of our tax losses could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. At December 31, 2013, we had federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $1.7 billion pretax available to offset future taxable income. These NOL carryforwards will expire in the years 2024 to 2033. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of a company’s taxable income if it experiences an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change occurs when a company’s “five-percent shareholders” (as defined in Section 382 of the Code) collectively increase their ownership in the company by more than 50 percentage points (by value) over a rolling three-year period. (This is different from a change in beneficial ownership under applicable securities laws.) These ownership changes include purchases of common stock under share repurchase programs, a company’s offering of its stock, the purchase or sale of company stock by five-percent shareholders, or the issuance or exercise of rights to acquire company stock. While we expect to be able to realize our total NOL carryforwards prior to their expiration, if an ownership change occurs, our ability to use the NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income will be subject to an annual limitation and will depend on the amount of taxable income we generate in future periods. There is no assurance that we will be able to fully utilize the NOL carryforwards. Furthermore, we could be required to record a valuation allowance related to the amount of the NOL carryforwards that may not be realized, which could impact our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 