ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties — many of which are beyond our control — that may cause our actual operating results or financial performance to be materially different from our expectations. If one or more of the events discussed in the following risks were to occur, actual outcomes could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements we make in this report or our other filings with the SEC, and our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected; furthermore, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. If we are unable to enter into and maintain managed care contractual arrangements on acceptable terms, if we experience material reductions in the contracted rates we receive from managed care payers or if we have difficulty collecting from managed care payers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We currently have thousands of managed care contracts with various health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. The amount of our managed care net patient revenues during the year ended December 31, 2012 was $5.4 billion, which represented approximately 57% of our total net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts. Approximately 63% of our managed care net patient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 was derived from our top ten managed care payers. In the year ended December 31, 2012, our commercial managed care net inpatient revenue per admission from our acute care hospitals was approximately 79% higher than our aggregate yield on a per admission basis from government payers, including managed Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans. In addition, at December 31, 2012, approximately 52% of our net accounts receivable were due from managed care payers. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into acceptable managed care contractual arrangements or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. For example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. Furthermore, managed care payers are continuing to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among these payers tends to increase their bargaining power. In some cases, commercial managed care payers rely on all or portions of Medicare’s severity-adjusted diagnosis-related group system to 20 Table of Contents determine payment rates, which could result in decreased reimbursement from some of these payers if levels of payments to health care providers or payment methodologies under the Medicare program are changed. Other changes to government health care programs, such as the increased obligations on managed care payers imposed by the Affordable Care Act, may negatively impact commercial managed care volumes and payment rates from managed care payers. Any material reductions in the contracted rates we receive for our services, coupled with any difficulties in collecting receivables from managed care payers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot predict with certainty the effect that the Affordable Care Act may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Affordable Care Act was enacted to change how health care services in the United States are covered, delivered and reimbursed. The expansion of health insurance coverage under the law may result in a material increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage. On the other hand, the Affordable Care Act provides for significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending and reductions in Medicare and Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments. A substantial portion of both our patient volumes and, as result, our revenues is derived from government health care programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid. Reductions to our reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs by the Affordable Care Act could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate and struck down its penalties for states that refused to comply with Medicaid expansion provisions. We remain unable to predict with certainty the full impact of the Affordable Care Act on our future revenues and operations at this time due to the law’s complexity and the limited amount of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices available to them under the law. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that expand insurance coverage will not become effective until 2014 or later. In addition, the Affordable Care Act will result in increased state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to participate in Medicaid expansion and the grants and other incentive opportunities under the law, and we are unable to predict the timing and impact of changes resulting from actions individual states have taken or might take with respect to expanding Medicaid coverage at this time. In general, there is significant uncertainty with respect to the positive and negative effects the Affordable Care Act may have on reimbursement, utilization and the future designs of provider networks and insurance plans (including pricing, provider participation, coverage, co-pays and deductibles), and the multiple models that attempt to predict those effects may differ materially from our expectations. Further changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs or other government health care programs could have an adverse effect on our business. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 23% of our net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts were related to the Medicare program, and approximately 8% of our net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts were related to various state Medicaid programs, in each case excluding Medicare and Medicaid managed care programs. In addition to the changes affected by the Affordable Care Act, the Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to: other statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements, among other things; requirements for utilization review; and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to our patients and the timing of payments to our facilities, which could in turn adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any material adverse effects resulting from future reductions in payments from government programs could be exacerbated if we are not able to manage our operating costs effectively. Moreover, the economic downturn has increased budget pressures on most states, and these budget pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending for Medicaid programs in many states. Most states began a new fiscal year on July 1, 2012 and, although most addressed projected shortfalls in their final budgets, some states are still facing budget gaps. Increased Medicaid enrollment due to the economic downturn, limits on the ability of states to reduce Medicaid eligibility criteria enacted as part of the Affordable Care Act, budget gaps and other factors could result in future reductions to Medicaid payments or additional taxes on hospitals. Some states are considering proposals that would result in such reductions. In general, we are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited or if we or one or more of our subsidiaries’ hospitals are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government health care program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Our business continues to be adversely affected by a high volume of uninsured and underinsured patients, as well as declines in commercial managed care patients. Like other organizations in the health care industry, we continue to provide services to a high volume of uninsured patients and more patients than in prior years with increased burdens of co-payments and deductibles due to changes in their health care plans. As a result, we continue to experience a high level of uncollectible accounts, and, unless our business mix shifts toward a greater number of insured patients as a result of the Affordable Care Act or otherwise, the trend of higher co-payments and deductibles reverses, or the economy improves and unemployment rates decline, we anticipate this high level of uncollectible accounts to continue or increase. In addition, even after implementation of the Affordable Care Act, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government health care program. Over the past several years, we have experienced declines in our commercial managed care volumes, which in the aggregate generate substantially higher yields than Medicare and Medicaid volumes. The declines in our commercial managed care volumes are due, in part, to the related effects of higher unemployment and reductions in commercial managed care enrollment. In addition, we believe that the growth in high-deductible health plans has adversely impacted commercial managed care volumes. Our hospitals, outpatient centers and other health care businesses operate in competitive environments, and competition is one reason increases in patient volumes have been constrained. Overall, our hospitals, outpatient centers and other health care businesses operate in competitive environments, and we believe increases in patient volumes have been constrained, in part, by competition for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. Generally, other hospitals and outpatient centers in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those we offer, and, in some cases, competing facilities are more established or newer than ours. Furthermore, competing facilities (1) may offer a broader array of services to patients and physicians than ours, (2) may have larger or more specialized medical staffs to admit and refer patients, (3) may have more favorable contracts with managed care plans, (4) may have a better reputation in the community, or (5) may be more centrally located with better parking or closer proximity to public transportation. We also face increased competition from specialty hospitals (some of which are physician-owned) and unaffiliated freestanding outpatient centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. Furthermore, some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by government agencies or not-for-profit organizations. These tax-exempt competitors may have certain financial advantages not available to our facilities, such as endowments, charitable contributions, tax-exempt financing, and exemptions from sales, property and income taxes. In addition, in certain markets in which we operate, large teaching hospitals provide highly specialized facilities, equipment and services that may not be available at our hospitals. If competing health care providers are better able to attract patients, recruit and retain physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, our patient volume levels may suffer. If we are unable to recruit and retain an appropriate number of quality physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, our business may suffer. The success of our business depends in significant part on the number, quality and specialties of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. Although we operate some physician practices and, where permitted by law, employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. Such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals or admit their patients to competing hospitals at any time. In some of our markets, physician recruitment and retention are affected by a shortage of physicians in certain sought-after specialties and the difficulties that physicians can experience in obtaining affordable malpractice insurance or finding insurers willing to provide such insurance. Other issues facing physicians, such as proposed decreases in Medicare payments, are causing them to consider alternatives, including leaving private practice for employed physician arrangements, relocating their practices or retiring sooner than expected. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of quality physicians by providing adequate support personnel, technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, physicians may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. Our labor costs could be adversely affected by competition for staffing, the shortage of experienced nurses and labor union activity. Our hospital operations depend on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our employed physicians. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining physicians and qualified management responsible for the daily operations of our hospitals. In addition, like others in the health care industry, we continue to experience a shortage of experienced nurses in certain 22 Table of Contents key specialties and geographic areas. As a result, from time to time, we may be required to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain experienced nurses or hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. Furthermore, state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios in California affect not only our labor costs, but, if we are unable to hire the necessary number of experienced nurses to meet the required ratios, they may also cause us to limit patient admissions with a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. In general, our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, experienced nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. At December 31, 2012, approximately 29% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. These employees — primarily registered nurses and service and maintenance workers — were located at 25 of our hospitals, the majority of which are in California and Florida. We have no expired contracts at this time; however, we are in the process of negotiating new contracts where employees have recently chosen union representation. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of the negotiations, but increases in salaries, wages and benefits could result from these agreements. Furthermore, there is a possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, which could increase our labor costs and have an adverse effect on our patient admissions and net operating revenues. Ongoing organizing activities by labor unions could increase our level of union representation in 2013; to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. Conifer’s future success also depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel. Competition for the caliber and number of employees we require at Conifer is intense. We may face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training Conifer’s employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our Conifer employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring, integrating and training their replacements, and the quality of Conifer’s services and its ability to serve its customers could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on that segment of our business. Our licensed hospital beds are heavily concentrated in certain market areas in Florida, Texas and California, which makes us sensitive to economic, regulatory, environmental and other conditions in those areas. As of December 31, 2012, the largest concentrations of licensed beds in our hospitals were in Florida (26.4%), Texas (19.9%) and California (17.7%). These concentrations increase the risk that, should any adverse economic, regulatory, environmental or other condition occur in these areas, our overall business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event could affect us more significantly than other companies with less geographic concentration, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover our losses. In the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in Florida and Texas and the patient populations in those states. Our California operations could be adversely affected by a major earthquake or wildfires in that state. Our business and financial results could be harmed by violations of existing regulations or compliance with new or changed regulations. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, privacy of patient information, ownership of facilities, physician relationships, addition of facilities and services, and reimbursement rates for services. The laws, rules and regulations governing the health care industry are extremely complex and, in certain areas, the industry has little or no regulatory or judicial interpretation for guidance. If a determination is made that we were in violation of such laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to penalties or liabilities or required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, Conifer’s failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to it could result in reduced demand for its services, invalidate all or portions of some of Conifer’s services agreements with its customers, or give customers the right to terminate Conifer’s services agreements with them, among other things, any of which could have an adverse effect on Conifer’s business. Even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our business reputation could suffer. Furthermore, health care, as one of the largest industries in the United States, continues to attract much legislative interest and public attention. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations. Further changes in the regulatory framework affecting health care providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are also required to comply with various federal and state labor laws, rules and regulations governing a variety of workplace wage and hour issues. From time to time, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory proceedings and private litigation concerning our application of such laws, rules and regulations. 23 Table of Contents The failure to comply with debt collection and consumer credit reporting regulations could subject Conifer’s SOS subsidiary to fines and other liabilities, which could harm Conifer’s reputation and business, and could make it more difficult for Conifer to retain existing customers or attract new customers. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act regulates persons who regularly collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, consumer debts in default that are owed or asserted to be owed to another person. Certain of the accounts receivable handled by SOS, Conifer’s debt collection agency subsidiary, are subject to the FDCPA. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. Moreover, regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions. SOS could incur costs or could be subject to fines or other penalties under the FDCPA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act if it is determined to have mishandled protected information. We or Conifer’s customers could be required to report such breaches to affected consumers or regulatory authorities, leading to disclosures that could damage Conifer’s reputation, making it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers, or otherwise harm Conifer’s business. We could be subject to substantial uninsured liabilities or increased insurance costs as a result of significant legal actions. We are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. Some of these actions may involve large demands, as well as substantial defense costs. Even in states that have imposed caps on damages, litigants are seeking recoveries under new theories of liability that might not be subject to such caps. Our professional and general liability insurance does not cover all claims against us, and it may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain at adequate levels, as the health care industry has seen significant increases in the cost of such insurance due to increased litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of current or future legal actions against us or the effect that judgments or settlements in such matters may have on us or on our insurance costs. Additionally, all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. If the aggregate limit of any of our professional and general liability policies is exhausted, in whole or in part, it could deplete or reduce the limits available to pay any other material claims applicable to that policy period. Any losses not covered by or in excess of the amounts maintained under insurance policies will be funded from our working capital. Furthermore, one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill its or their obligations to defend, pay or reimburse us when those obligations become due. In that case or if payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Conifer operates in a highly competitive industry, and its current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than Conifer does, which could have a material adverse effect on Conifer’s business, revenue, growth rate and market share. We intend to continue expanding Conifer’s revenue cycle management, patient communications services and management services businesses by marketing these services to non-Tenet hospitals and other health care-related entities. However, the market for Conifer’s solutions is highly competitive, and we expect competition may intensify in the future. Conifer faces competition from existing participants and new entrants to the revenue cycle management market (including software vendors and other technology-supported revenue cycle management outsourcing companies, traditional consultants and information technology outsourcing firms), as well as from the internal staffs of hospitals and other health care providers who, as described above, handle these processes internally. To be successful, Conifer must respond more quickly and effectively than its competitors to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, regulations and customer requirements. Moreover, existing or new competitors may introduce technologies or services that render Conifer’s technologies or services obsolete or less marketable. Even if Conifer’s technologies and services are more effective than the offerings of its competitors, current or potential customers might prefer competitive technologies or services to Conifer’s technologies and services. Furthermore, increased competition may result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact Conifer’s margins, growth rate or market share. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, catastrophic events and other disruptions affecting our information technology and related systems. As a provider of health care services, we rely on our information technology in the day-to-day operation of our business to process, transmit and store sensitive or confidential data, including electronic health records, other protected health information, and financial, payment and other personal data of patients, as well as to store our proprietary and confidential business performance data. Our centralized information technology delivery model supports all of our hospitals, outpatient centers and other health care businesses, including Conifer. We utilize a diversified data and voice network, along with technology systems for billing, supply chain, clinical information systems and labor management. Although we have redundancies and other measures 24 Table of Contents designed to protect the security and availability of the data we process, transmit and store, our information technology and infrastructure is vulnerable to computer viruses, attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance. Furthermore, our network and technology systems are subject to disruption due to events such as a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event. Any such breach or system interruption could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse or loss of confidential, sensitive or proprietary information, could negatively impact our ability to conduct normal business operations (including the collection of revenues), and could result in potential liability and damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The economic downturn and other economic factors have impacted, and may continue to impact, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to be impacted by a number of industry-wide challenges, including constrained growth in patient volumes and high levels of bad debt. We believe factors associated with the economic downturn — including higher levels of unemployment, reductions in commercial managed care enrollment, and patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergency health care procedures — have impacted our volumes and affected our ability to collect outstanding receivables. If industry trends or general economic conditions worsen, we may not be able to sustain future profitability, and our liquidity and ability to repay our outstanding debt may be harmed. Furthermore, the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of many business operations worldwide has been limited in recent years. Our ability to access the capital markets on acceptable terms may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have a negative impact on our growth plans, our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions, and our ability to refinance existing debt. The economic downturn or other economic conditions could also adversely affect the counterparties to our agreements, including the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Trends affecting our actual or anticipated results may require us to record charges that would adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of factors that have negatively affected our industry generally and our business specifically, we have been required to record various charges in our results of operations. Our impairment tests presume stable, improving or, in some cases, declining operating results in our hospitals, which are based on programs and initiatives being implemented that are designed to achieve the hospitals’ most recent projections. If these projections are not met, or if in the future negative trends occur that impact our future outlook, future impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill may occur, and we may incur additional restructuring charges. Future restructuring of our operating structure that changes our goodwill reporting units could also result in future impairments of our goodwill. Any such charges could adversely affect our results of operations. The amount and terms of our current and any future debt could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $5.3 billion of total long-term debt, as well as approximately $154 million in standby letters of credit outstanding under our senior secured revolving credit facility, which is collateralized by patient accounts receivable of all of our wholly owned acute care and specialty hospitals. From time to time, we expect to engage in additional capital markets, bank credit and other financing activities depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at that time. The terms and conditions in our credit agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes and senior secured notes, as well as our payment obligations under these agreements, could have important consequences to our business and to holders of our securities, including the following: · Our credit agreement and the indentures contain, and any future debt obligations may contain, covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and sell assets. Our credit agreement also requires us to maintain a financial ratio relating to our ability to satisfy certain fixed expenses, including interest payments. The indentures contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur liens, consummate asset sales, enter into sale and lease-back transactions or consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our or their assets. If we do not comply with these obligations, it may cause an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay the indebtedness immediately. · We may be more vulnerable in the event of a deterioration in our business, in the health care industry or in the economy generally, or if federal or state governments set further limitations on reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs. 25 Table of Contents · We may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which could reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures or acquisitions. We have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our credit agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes and senior secured notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The utilization of our tax losses could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Because of net operating losses we have experienced for federal income tax purposes, at December 31, 2012, we had federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $1.5 billion pretax available to offset future taxable income. Our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards to reduce future taxable income may be limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if certain ownership changes in our Company occur during a rolling three-year period. These ownership changes include purchases of common stock under share repurchase programs, the offering of stock by us, the purchase or sale of our stock by 5% shareholders, as defined in the Treasury regulations, or the issuance or exercise of rights to acquire our stock. If such ownership changes by 5% shareholders result in aggregate increases that exceed 50 percentage points during the three-year period, then Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our taxable income that may be offset by our NOL carryforwards or tax credit carryforwards at the time of ownership change. The limitation may affect the amount of our deferred income tax asset and, depending on the limitation, a significant portion of our NOL carryforwards or tax credit carryforwards could expire before we are able to use them. In such an event, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We believe that we have not experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as of February 15, 2013; however, the amount by which our ownership may change in the future could be affected by purchases and sales of stock by 5% shareholders, purchases of common stock under share repurchase programs and new issuances of stock by us, should we choose to do so. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 