Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business General Unfavorable economic conditions and increased operating costs adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A national or international economic downturn would reduce demand for our services in each of our operating segments, which may result in the loss of business or increased pressure to contract for business on less favorable terms than our generally preferred terms. In addition, insolvency experienced by clients, especially larger clients, particularly in the non-profit healthcare and airline industries, could make it difficult for us to collect amounts we are owed and could result in the voiding of existing contracts. Similarly, financial distress or insolvency, if experienced by our key vendors and service providers such as insurance carriers, could significantly increase our costs. Any terrorist attacks, and the national and global military, diplomatic and financial response to such attacks or other threats, also may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Natural disasters or global calamities such as an avian flu outbreak also may affect our sales and operating results. In the past, ARAMARK experienced lost and closed client locations, business disruptions and delays, the loss of inventory and other assets, and the effect of the temporary conversion of a number of ARAMARK client locations to provide food and shelter to those left homeless by storms. 12 Our profitability can be adversely affected to the extent we are faced with cost increases for food, wages, other labor related expenses (including workers’ compensation, state unemployment insurance and healthcare costs), insurance, fuel, utilities, piece goods, clothing and equipment, especially to the extent we are unable to recover such increased costs through increases in the prices for our products and services, due to general economic conditions, competitive conditions, or both. For example, oil and natural gas prices have fluctuated significantly in the last several years. Substantial increases in the cost of fuel and utilities have historically resulted in substantial cost increases in our uniform services business, and to a lesser extent in our food and support services segment. We also have experienced recent increases in our food costs. While we believe a portion of these increases is attributable to rising fuel prices, we believe the increases also result from rising global food demand and the increased production of biofuels such as ethanol. In addition, food prices can fluctuate as a result of temporary changes in supply, including as a result of incidences of severe weather such as droughts, heavy rains and late freezes. Approximately 76% of our food and support services sales are from profit and loss contracts under which we have limited ability to pass on cost increases to our clients. Our business may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if labor costs increase. In the past, the United States has periodically experienced reduced levels of unemployment, which has created a shortage of qualified workers at all levels. Given that our workforce requires large numbers of entry level and skilled workers and managers, low levels of unemployment can compromise our ability in certain of our businesses to continue to provide quality service or compete for new business. From time to time, we have had difficulty in hiring and maintaining qualified management personnel, particularly at the entry management level. We will continue to have significant requirements to hire such personnel. Our success also depends to a substantial extent on the ability, experience and performance of our management, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Neubauer. We also regularly hire a large number of part-time workers, particularly in our food and support services segments. Any difficulty we may encounter in hiring such workers could result in significant increases in labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for labor has resulted in wage increases in the past and future competition could substantially increase our labor costs. Due to the labor intensive nature of our businesses and the fact that 76% of our Food and Support Services segments’ sales are from profit and loss contracts under which we have limited ability to pass along cost increases, a shortage of labor or increases in wage levels in excess of normal levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our expansion strategy involves risks. We may seek to acquire companies or interests in companies or enter into joint ventures that complement our business, and our inability to complete acquisitions, integrate acquired companies successfully or enter into joint ventures may render us less competitive. We may be evaluating acquisitions or engaging in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates or joint venture partners on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional acquisitions, we also cannot be sure that any benefits anticipated from the acquisitions will actually be realized. Likewise, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary financing for acquisitions. Such financing could be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements or it could be more expensive than our current debt. The amount of such debt financing for acquisitions could be significant and the terms of such debt instruments could be more restrictive than our current covenants. In addition, our ability to control the planning and operations of our joint ventures and other less than majority owned affiliates may be subject to numerous restrictions imposed by the joint venture agreements and majority shareholders. Our joint venture partners may also have interests which differ from ours. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in operating, contract and supply chain difficulties, such as the failure to retain clients or management personnel and problems coordinating technology and supply chain arrangements. Also, in connection with any acquisition, we could fail to discover liabilities of the acquired company for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator 13 in spite of any investigation we make prior to the acquisition. In addition, labor laws in certain countries may require us to retain more employees than would otherwise be optimal from entities we acquire. Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives. The diversion of management attention, particularly in a difficult operating environment, may affect our sales. Similarly, our business depends on effective information technology systems and implementation delays or poor execution of the integration of different information technology systems could disrupt our operations and increase costs. Possible future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and/or cash flow. In addition, goodwill resulting from business combinations represents a significant portion of our assets. If the goodwill were deemed to be impaired, we would need to take a charge to earnings to write down the goodwill to its fair value. If we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business. We are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, the sale of alcoholic beverages, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, human health and safety, including regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, federal motor carrier safety, data privacy, environmental protection, the import and export of goods and customs regulations and the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. From time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. We also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. In July 2004, the Company learned that it was under investigation by the United States Department of Commerce, among others, relating to Galls, a division of the Company, in connection with record keeping and documentation of certain export sales. We believe the investigation surrounds the possible failure under export regulations and Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, regulations to obtain proper export licenses and authorizations in connection with the export of Galls products to various countries, including an embargoed country. In 2004 and 2005, the Government obtained and received numerous records from the Company, which cooperated in the investigation. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the export matters related to the Galls division described above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from government contracts. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Changes in or new interpretations of the governmental regulatory framework may affect our contract terms and may reduce our sales or profits. A portion of our sales, estimated to be approximately 15% in fiscal 2007, is derived from business with U.S. federal, state and local governments and agencies. Changes or new interpretations in, or changes in the enforcement of, the statutory or regulatory framework applicable to services provided under governmental 14 contracts or bidding procedures, particularly by our food and support services businesses, could result in fewer new contracts or contract renewals, modifications to the methods we apply to price government contracts, or in contract terms of shorter duration than we have historically experienced, any of which could result in lower sales or profits than we have historically achieved, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, the United States Department of Agriculture recently enacted regulations requiring that food service costs of a school district participating in the National School Lunch Program, among other programs, must be net of all allocable discounts, rebates and other applicable credits received by a food service management company under contract with the school district. As a result of this regulatory change, we may need to structure contracts differently with school districts participating in one of these programs, depending on the school district’s state or region. Further unionization of our workforce may increase our costs. Approximately 38,000 employees in our U.S. operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain unions representing employees in our Food and Support Services—Domestic and Uniform and Career Apparel segments have begun a union campaign targeting us and the other major companies in our industry for increased representation of our workforce. We have always respected our employees’ right to unionize or not to unionize. However, the unionization of a significantly greater portion of our workforce could increase our overall costs at the affected locations and affect adversely our flexibility to run our business in the most efficient manner to remain competitive or acquire new business. In addition, any significant increase in the number of work stoppages at our various operations could affect adversely our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our failure to retain our current clients and renew our existing client contracts could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to retain our current clients and renew our existing client contracts. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality, price and responsiveness of our services, as well as our ability to market these services effectively and differentiate ourselves from our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew existing client contracts at the same or higher rates or that our current clients will not turn to competitors, cease operations, elect to self-operate or terminate contracts with us. The failure to renew a significant number of our existing contracts would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be adversely affected if customers reduce their outsourcing or use of preferred vendors. Our business and growth strategies depend in large part on the continuation of a current trend toward outsourcing services. Customers will outsource if they perceive that outsourcing may provide higher quality services at a lower overall cost and permit them to focus on their core business activities. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or that customers that have outsourced functions will not decide to perform these functions themselves. In addition, labor unions representing employees of some of our current and prospective customers have occasionally opposed the outsourcing trend to the extent that they believed that current union jobs for their memberships might be lost. In these cases, unions typically seek to ensure that jobs that are outsourced continue to be unionized and thus, the unions seek to direct to union employees the performance of the types of services we offer. We have also identified a trend among some of our customers toward the retention of a limited number of preferred vendors to provide all or a large part of their required services. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or, if it does continue, that we will be selected and retained as a preferred vendor to provide these services. Unfavorable developments with respect to either of these trends could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Our international business results are influenced by currency fluctuations and other risks that could have an effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our sales is derived from international business. During fiscal 2007, approximately 18% of our sales were generated outside the United States and Canada. We currently have a presence in 17 countries outside of the United States and Canada with approximately 68,000 personnel. The operating results of our Canadian business and our international subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars and such results are affected by movements in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Our international operations are also subject to other risks, including the requirement to comply with changing and conflicting national and local regulatory requirements; potential difficulties in staffing and labor disputes; differing local labor laws; managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; credit risk or financial condition of local customers; potential imposition of restrictions on investments; potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding, VAT and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; foreign exchange controls; and local political and social conditions. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We intend to continue to develop our business in emerging countries over the long term. Emerging international operations present several additional risks, including greater fluctuation in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; economic and governmental instability; civil disturbances; volatility in gross domestic production; Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance issues; and nationalization and expropriation of private assets. Our operations are seasonal and quarter to quarter comparisons may not be a good indicator of our performance. In the first and second fiscal quarters, within the Food and Support Services—Domestic segment, there historically has been a lower level of sales at the historically higher margin sports, entertainment and recreational food service operations, which is partly offset by increased activity in the educational sector. In the third and fourth fiscal quarters, there historically has been a significant increase in sales at sports, entertainment and recreational accounts, which is partially offset by the effect of summer recess in the educational sector. The sales of WearGuard, one of our direct marketing companies, generally increase during the first quarter of the fiscal year because of the onset of colder weather in the northern tier of the United States, as well as the gift-giving holidays. For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or how we will perform in the future. Environmental regulations may subject us to significant liability and limit our ability to grow. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and similar state statutes and regulations. For example, industrial laundries in our uniform rental segment use and must discharge wastewater containing detergents and other residues from the laundering of garments and other merchandise through publicly operated treatment works or sewer systems and are subject to volume and chemical discharge limits and penalties and fines for non-compliance. In the course of our business, we settle, or contribute to the settlement of, actions or claims brought against us relating to the disposal of hazardous materials. We may, in the future, be required to expend material amounts to rectify the consequences of any such disposal. Under federal and state environmental laws, as an owner or operator of real estate we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on or in or emanating from our owned or leased property, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage. Liability may be imposed upon us without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. There can be no assurances that locations that we own, lease or otherwise operate or that we may acquire in the future have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or that future uses or conditions will not result in the imposition of liability upon us under such laws or expose us to third party actions such as tort suits. In addition, such regulations may limit our ability 16 to identify suitable sites for new or expanded plants. In connection with our operations and the operations of our predecessors or companies that we have acquired, hazardous or toxic substances may migrate from properties on which we operate or which were operated by our predecessors or companies we acquired to other properties. We may be subject to significant liabilities to the extent that human health is damaged or the value of such properties is diminished by such migration. Our Sponsors can strongly influence us and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future. The Sponsors indirectly own, through their ownership in Holdings, a substantial majority of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis because of the Transaction. As a result, the Sponsors have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Sponsors, or other funds controlled by or associated with the Sponsors, continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of Holdings’ common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence our decisions. Food and Support Services Competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. There is significant competition in the food and support services business from local, regional, national and international companies, of varying sizes, many of which have substantial financial resources. Our ability to successfully compete depends on our ability to provide quality services at a reasonable price and to provide value to our customers. Certain of our competitors have been and may in the future be willing to underbid us or accept a lower profit margin or expend more capital in order to obtain or retain business. This has been observed particularly in our business and industry and sports and entertainment sectors in recent years. Also, certain regional and local service providers may be better established than we are within a specific geographic region. In addition, existing or potential clients may elect to self operate their food service, eliminating the opportunity for us to serve them or compete for the account. While we have a significant international presence, should business sector clients require multinational bidding, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage because we may not be able to offer services in as many countries as some of our competitors. Sales of sports, entertainment and recreational services would be adversely affected by a decline in attendance at client facilities or by a reduction or cessation of events. The portion of our food and support services business which provides services in public facilities such as convention centers and tourist and recreational attractions is sensitive to an economic downturn, as expenditures to take vacations or hold or attend conventions are funded to a partial or total extent by discretionary income. A decrease in such discretionary income on the part of potential attendees at our clients’ facilities could result in a reduction in our sales. Further, because our exposure to the ultimate consumer of what we provide is limited by our dependence on our clients to attract customers to their facilities and events, our ability to respond to such a reduction in attendance, and therefore our sales, is limited. There are many factors that could reduce the numbers of events in a facility or attendance at an event, including labor disruptions involving sports leagues, poor performance by the teams playing in a facility and inclement weather, which would adversely affect sales and profits. The pricing and cancellation terms of our food and support services contracts may constrain our ability to recover costs and to make a profit on our contracts. The amount of risk that we bear and our profit potential vary depending on the type of contract under which we provide food and support services. We may be unable to fully recover costs on contracts that limit our ability to increase prices. In addition, we provide many of our services under contracts of indefinite term, which are 17 subject to termination on short notice by either party without cause. Some of our profit and loss contracts contain minimum guaranteed remittances to our client regardless of our sales or profit at the facility involved. If sales do not exceed costs under a contract which contains minimum guaranteed commissions, we will bear any losses which are incurred, as well as the guaranteed commission. Generally, our contracts limit our ability to raise prices on the food, beverages and merchandise we sell within a particular facility without the client’s consent. In addition, some of our contracts exclude certain events or products from the scope of the contract, or give the client the right to modify the terms under which we may operate at certain events. The refusal by individual clients to permit the sale of some products at their venues, the imposition by clients of limits on prices which are not economically feasible for us, or decisions by clients to curtail their use of the services we provide could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our business is contract intensive and may lead to client disputes. Our business is contract intensive and we are parties to many contracts with clients all over the world. Our client interest contracts provide that client billings, and for some contracts the sharing of profits and losses, are based on our determinations of costs of service. Contract terms under which we base these determinations may be subject to differing interpretations which could result in disputes with our clients from time to time. Clients generally have the right to audit our contracts, and we periodically review our compliance with contract terms and provisions. If clients were to dispute our contract determinations, the resolution of such disputes in a manner adverse to our interests could negatively affect sales and operating results. While we do not believe any reviews, audits or other such matters would result in material adjustments, if a large number of our client arrangements were modified in response to any such matter, the effect could be materially adverse to our business or results of operations. Claims of illness or injury associated with the service of food and beverage to the public could adversely affect us. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry, and a number of these claims may exist at any given time. As a result, we could be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from food quality or handling claims at one or more of the facilities that we serve. In addition to decreasing our sales and profitability at our facilities, adverse publicity could negatively impact our service reputation, hindering our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms or to obtain new business. In addition, future food product recalls and health concerns may from time to time disrupt our business. In fiscal 2007, one distributor provided approximately 54% of our food and non-food products in the United States and Canada, and if our relationship or their business were to be disrupted, we could experience disruptions to our operations and cost structure in such countries. If our relationship with, or the business of, SYSCO, our main U.S. distributor of our food and non-food products were to be disrupted, we would have to arrange alternative distributors and our operations and cost structure could be adversely affected in the short term. Similarly, a sudden termination of the relationship with a significant provider in other geographic areas could in the short term adversely affect our ability to provide services and disrupt our customer relationships in such areas. Governmental regulations relating to food and beverages may subject us to significant liability. The regulations relating to each of our food and support service sectors are numerous and complex. A variety of regulations at various governmental levels relating to the handling, preparation and serving of food (including in some cases requirements relating to the temperature of food), and the cleanliness of food production facilities and the hygiene of food- handling personnel are enforced primarily at the local public health department level. We cannot assure you that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations. Furthermore, additional or amended regulations in this area may significantly increase the cost of compliance. 18 We serve alcoholic beverages at many facilities, and must comply with applicable licensing laws, as well as state and local service laws, commonly called dram shop statutes. Dram shop statutes generally prohibit serving alcoholic beverages to certain persons such as an individual who is intoxicated or a minor. If we violate dram shop laws, we may be liable to the patron and/or third parties for the acts of the patron. Although we sponsor regular training programs designed to minimize the likelihood of such a situation, we cannot guarantee that intoxicated or minor patrons will not be served or that liability for their acts will not be imposed on us. There can be no assurance that additional regulation in this area would not limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We must also obtain and comply with the terms of licenses in order to sell alcoholic beverages in the states in which we serve alcoholic beverages. Some of our contracts require us to pay liquidated damages during any period in which our liquor license for the facility is suspended, and most contracts are subject to termination if we lose our liquor license for the facility. Uniform and Career Apparel Competition in the uniform rental industry could adversely affect our results of operations. We have a number of major national competitors in the uniform rental industry with significant financial resources. In addition, there are regional and local uniform suppliers whom we believe may have strong customer loyalty. While most customers focus primarily on quality of service, uniform rental also is a price-sensitive service and if existing or future competitors seek to gain customers or accounts by reducing prices, we may be required to lower prices, which would reduce our sales and profits. The uniform rental business requires investment capital for growth. Failure to maintain capital investment in this segment would put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, due to competition in our direct marketing business, it has become increasingly important for us to source garments and other products overseas, particularly in Asia. To the extent we are not able to effectively source such products in Asia and gain the related cost savings, we may be at a further disadvantage in relation to some of our competitors. Economic and business conditions affecting our customer base and our operating costs could negatively impact our sales and operating results. We supply uniform services to the airline, auto, hospitality, retail and manufacturing industries, among others, all of which have been subject to one or more of shifting employment levels, changes in worker productivity, uncertainty regarding the impacts of rehiring and a shift to offshore manufacturing. Economic hardship among our client base could cause some of our clients to restrict expenditures or even cease to conduct business, both of which could negatively affect our sales and operating results. Our operations are exposed to increases in garment and fuel prices. The cost of gasoline and natural gas has fluctuated significantly in the United States in the last several years. To the extent we are not able to mitigate or pass on our increased costs to customers—for fuel expenses or any other of our costs that may increase—our operating results may be negatively affected. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our results of operations. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We seek to require all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws and otherwise be certified as meeting our supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport availability and 19 cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, United States foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks related to our indebtedness Our leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We are highly leveraged. As of September 28, 2007, our indebtedness was $5,890.6 million, including our senior notes. We also had an additional $581.4 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility at that date. In addition, approximately $233.0 million of funding was outstanding under our receivables facility as of September 28, 2007. This degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and our receivables facility will be at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our notes; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior fixed rate notes and our senior floating rate notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. If our economic performance were to deteriorate, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. While we believe that we currently have adequate cash flows to service our indebtedness, if our economic performance were to deteriorate significantly, we might be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 20 If due to such a deterioration in our economic performance our cash flows and capital resources were to be insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior fixed rate notes and senior floating rate notes restricts our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior fixed rate notes and senior floating rate notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, make unscheduled payments on our notes, repurchase or redeem our notes or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. Our senior notes due 2012 contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to merge or consolidate with or into any person, enter into liens on principal property, enter into sale and lease back transactions, or to sell, lease or convey all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the senior secured revolving credit facility requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and in the event of a significant deterioration of our economic performance, we cannot assure you that we will satisfy those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit agreement. Upon our failure to maintain compliance with these covenants that is not waived by the lenders under the revolving credit facility, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such facilities. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit agreement. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay those borrowings, as well as our unsecured indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 21 