Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business General Unfavorable economic conditions and increased operating costs have, and in the future could, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A national or international economic downturn has, and in the future could, reduce demand for our services in each of our operating segments, which may result in the loss of business or increased pressure to contract for business on less favorable terms than our generally preferred terms. Economic hardship among our client base can also impact our business. For example, during the recent period of economic distress, certain of our businesses have been negatively affected by reduced employment levels at our clients’ locations and declining levels of business and consumer spending. In addition, insolvency experienced by clients, especially larger clients, has, and in the future could, make it difficult for us to collect amounts we are owed and could result in the voiding of existing contracts. Similarly, financial distress or insolvency, if experienced by our key vendors and service providers such as insurance carriers, could significantly increase our costs. Any terrorist attacks, particularly against venues that we serve, and the national and global military, diplomatic and financial response to such attacks or other threats, also may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Natural disasters, including hurricanes and earthquakes, or global calamities have, and in the future could, affect our sales and operating results. In the past, ARAMARK experienced lost and closed client locations, business disruptions and delays, the loss of inventory and other assets, and the effect of the temporary conversion of a number of ARAMARK client locations to provide food and shelter to those left homeless by storms. Our profitability can be adversely affected to the extent we are faced with cost increases for food, wages, other labor related expenses (including workers’ compensation, state unemployment insurance and state mandated health benefits and other healthcare costs), insurance, fuel, utilities, piece goods, clothing and equipment, especially to the extent we are unable to recover such increased costs through increases in the prices for our products and services, due to one or more of general economic conditions, competitive conditions or contractual provisions in our client contracts. Oil and natural gas prices have fluctuated significantly in the last several years. Substantial increases in the cost of fuel and utilities have historically resulted in substantial cost increases in our uniform rental business, and to a lesser extent in our food and support services segments. From time to time we have experienced increases in our food costs. While we believe a portion of these increases were attributable to fuel prices, we believe the increases also resulted from rising global food demand and the increased production of biofuels such as ethanol. In addition, food prices can fluctuate as a result of temporary changes in supply, including as a result of incidences of severe weather such as droughts, heavy rains and late freezes. Approximately 73% of our food and support services sales are from profit and loss contracts under which we have limited ability to pass on cost increases to our clients. Our business may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if labor costs increase. From time to time, we have had difficulty in hiring and maintaining qualified management personnel, particularly at the entry management level. We will continue to have significant requirements to hire such personnel. In the past, at times when the United States or other geographic regions have periodically experienced reduced levels of unemployment, there has been a shortage of qualified workers at all levels. Given that our workforce requires large numbers of entry level and skilled workers and managers, low levels of unemployment when such conditions exist or mismatches between the labor markets and our requirements can compromise our ability in certain of our businesses to continue to provide quality service or compete for new business. We also regularly hire a large number of part-time workers, particularly in our food and support services segments. Any 13 difficulty we may encounter in hiring such workers could result in significant increases in labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for labor has at times resulted in wage increases in the past and future competition could substantially increase our labor costs. Due to the labor intensive nature of our businesses and the fact that 73% of our food and support services segments’ sales are from profit and loss contracts under which we have limited ability to pass along cost increases, a shortage of labor or increases in wage levels in excess of normal levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success also depends to a substantial extent on the ability, experience and performance of our management, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Neubauer. Healthcare reform legislation could have an impact on our business. During 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States. Certain of the provisions that could most significantly increase our healthcare costs in the near term include the removal of annual plan limits, the changes in rules regarding eligibility for dependents and the mandate that health plans cover 100% of preventative care. In addition, our healthcare costs could increase if the new legislation and accompanying regulations require us to automatically enroll employees in health coverage, cover more employees than we do currently or pay penalty amounts in the event that employees do not elect our offered coverage. While much of the cost of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur on or after 2014 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare cost structure could have an impact on our business and operating costs. Our expansion strategy involves risks. We may seek to acquire companies or interests in companies or enter into joint ventures that complement our business, and our inability to complete acquisitions, integrate acquired companies successfully or enter into joint ventures may render us less competitive. We may be evaluating acquisitions or engaging in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates or joint venture partners on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional acquisitions, we also cannot be sure that any benefits anticipated from the acquisitions will actually be realized. Likewise, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary financing for acquisitions. Such financing could be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements or it could be more expensive than our current debt. The amount of such debt financing for acquisitions could be significant and the terms of such debt instruments could be more restrictive than our current covenants. In addition, our ability to control the planning and operations of our joint ventures and other less than majority owned affiliates may be subject to numerous restrictions imposed by the joint venture agreements and majority shareholders. Our joint venture partners may also have interests which differ from ours. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in operating, contract and supply chain difficulties, such as the failure to retain clients or management personnel and problems coordinating technology and supply chain arrangements. Also, in connection with any acquisition, we could fail to discover liabilities of the acquired company for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator in spite of any investigation we make prior to the acquisition. In addition, labor laws in certain countries may require us to retain more employees than would otherwise be optimal from entities we acquire. Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives. The diversion of management attention, particularly in a difficult operating environment, may affect our sales. Similarly, our business depends on effective information technology systems and implementation delays or poor execution of the integration of different information technology systems could disrupt our operations and increase costs. Possible future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our 14 financial condition, operating results and/or cash flow. In addition, goodwill resulting from business combinations represents a significant portion of our assets. If the goodwill were deemed to be impaired, we would need to take a charge to earnings to write down the goodwill to its fair value. If we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business. We are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, the sale of alcoholic beverages, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, including regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, federal motor carrier safety, data privacy, environmental protection, the import and export of goods and customs regulations, the False Claims Act, minority business enterprise and women owned business enterprise statutes, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-bribery laws and regulations relating to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. From time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. We also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, seizures or debarments from government contracts or the loss of liquor licenses. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Changes in, new interpretations of or changes in the enforcement of the governmental regulatory framework may affect our contract terms and may reduce our sales or profits. A portion of our sales, estimated to be approximately 11.4% in fiscal 2011, is derived from business with U.S. federal, state and local governments and agencies. Changes or new interpretations in, or changes in the enforcement of, the statutory or regulatory framework applicable to services provided under governmental contracts or bidding procedures, particularly by our food and support services businesses, could result in fewer new contracts or contract renewals, modifications to the methods we apply to price government contracts, or in contract terms of shorter duration than we have historically experienced, any of which could result in lower sales or profits than we have historically achieved, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, in connection with the recent reauthorization of the Child Nutrition Programs, including the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, the federal government enacted a variety of programmatic changes, including changes to the reimbursement rates, new school meal pricing requirements and enhanced nutritional requirements for meals served to students, which could impact our operations and/or our results of operations in those accounts where the client participates in one of the Child Nutrition Programs. Further unionization of our workforce may increase our costs. Approximately 39,000 employees in our U.S. operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain unions representing employees in our Food and Support Services—North America and Uniform and Career Apparel segments have targeted us and the other major companies in our 15 industries for increased representation of our workforce. We have always respected our employees’ right to unionize or not to unionize. However, the unionization of a significantly greater portion of our workforce could increase our overall costs at the affected locations and adversely affect our flexibility to run our business in the most efficient manner to remain competitive or acquire new business. In addition, any significant increase in the number of work stoppages at our various operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may incur significant liability as a result of our participation in multi-employer defined benefit pension plans. We operate at a number of locations under collective bargaining agreements. Under some of these agreements, we are obligated to participate in and contribute to multi-employer defined benefit pension plans. As a contributing employer to such plans, should ARAMARK withdraw, either totally or satisfy certain triggers for a statutory “partial withdrawal,” we would be subject to withdrawal liability (or partial withdrawal liability) for our proportionate share of any unfunded vested benefits. In addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding rules, we could be liable to increase our contributions to meet minimum funding contributions. The financial status of certain of the plans in which ARAMARK participates has deteriorated in the recent past. In addition, any increased funding obligations for underfunded multi-employer defined benefit pension plans could have a financial impact on us. Our international business results are influenced by currency fluctuations and other risks that could have an effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our sales is derived from international business. During fiscal 2011, approximately 21% of our sales was generated outside of North America. We currently have a presence in 19 countries outside of North America with approximately 76,000 personnel. The operating results of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars and such results are affected by movements in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Our international operations are also subject to other risks, including the requirement to comply with changing and conflicting national and local regulatory requirements; Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption law compliance matters; potential difficulties in staffing and labor disputes; differing local labor laws; managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; credit risk or financial condition of local customers; potential imposition of restrictions on investments; potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding, VAT and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; foreign exchange controls; and local political and social conditions. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We intend to continue to develop our business in emerging countries over the long term. Emerging international operations present several additional risks, including greater fluctuation in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; economic and governmental instability; civil disturbances; volatility in gross domestic production; and nationalization and expropriation of private assets. Our failure to retain our current clients and renew our existing client contracts could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to retain our current clients and renew our existing client contracts. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality, price and responsiveness of our services, as well as our ability to market these services effectively and differentiate ourselves from our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew existing client contracts at the same or higher rates or that our current clients will not turn to competitors, cease operations, elect to self-operate or terminate contracts with us. The failure to renew a significant number of our existing contracts would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 16 We may be adversely affected if customers reduce their outsourcing or use of preferred vendors. Our business and growth strategies depend in large part on the continuation of a current trend toward outsourcing services. Customers will outsource if they perceive that outsourcing may provide higher quality services at a lower overall cost and permit them to focus on their core business activities. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or that customers that have outsourced functions will not decide to perform these functions themselves. In addition, labor unions representing employees of some of our current and prospective customers have occasionally opposed the outsourcing trend to the extent that they believed that current union jobs for their memberships might be lost. In these cases, unions typically seek to ensure that jobs that are outsourced continue to be unionized and thus, the unions seek to direct to union employees jobs in our industry. We have also identified a trend among some of our customers toward the retention of a limited number of preferred vendors to provide all or a large part of their required services. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or, if it does continue, that we will be selected and retained as a preferred vendor to provide these services. Unfavorable developments with respect to either of these trends could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations are seasonal and quarter to quarter comparisons may not be a good indicator of our performance. In the first and second fiscal quarters, within the Food and Support Services—North America segment, there historically has been a lower level of sales at the sports, entertainment and recreational food service operations, which is partly offset by increased activity in the educational sector. In the third and fourth fiscal quarters, there historically has been a significant increase in sales at sports, entertainment and recreational accounts, which is partially offset by the effect of summer recess in the educational sector. For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or how we will perform in the future. Environmental regulations may subject us to significant liability and limit our ability to grow. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations, including the federal Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and similar state statutes and regulations governing the use, management, and disposal of chemicals and hazardous materials. In particular, industrial laundries in our uniform rental business use certain detergents and cleaning chemicals to launder garments and other merchandise. The residues from such detergents and chemicals and residues from soiled garments and other merchandise laundered at our facilities may result in potential discharges to air and to wastewaters that are discharged through sanitary sewer systems to publicly owned treatment works and may be contained in waste generated by our wastewater treatment systems. Our industrial laundries are subject to certain volume and chemical air and water pollution discharge limits, monitoring, permitting and recordkeeping requirements. Our food and support service business owns and/or operates underground storage tank systems to store petroleum products for use in our or our clients’ operations. These underground storage tank systems also are subject to performance standards, periodic monitoring, and recordkeeping requirements. We also may use and manage chemicals and hazardous material in our operations from time to time. In the course of our business, we may be subject to penalties and fines for non-compliance with environmental protection laws and regulations and we may settle, or contribute to the settlement of, actions or claims relating to the management of underground storage tanks and the handling and disposal of chemicals or hazardous materials. We may, in the future, be required to expend material amounts to rectify the consequences of any such events. In addition, changes to federal or state environmental laws may subject us to additional costs or cause us to change aspects of our business. Under federal and state environmental protection laws, as an owner or operator of real estate we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous materials located on or in or emanating from our owned or leased property or our client’s properties, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage, without regard to our fault, knowledge, or responsibility for the presence of such hazardous materials. There can be no assurances that locations that we own, lease or otherwise operate, either for ourselves or for our 17 clients, or that we may acquire in the future, have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or that future uses or conditions will not result in the imposition of liability upon us under such laws or expose us to third party actions such as tort suits. In addition, such regulations may limit our ability to identify suitable sites for new or expanded facilities. In connection with our present or past operations and the present or past operations of our predecessors or companies that we have acquired, hazardous substances may migrate from properties on which we operate or which were operated by our predecessors or companies we acquired to other properties. We may be subject to significant liabilities to the extent that human health is adversely affected or the value of such properties is diminished by such migration. Our Sponsors can strongly influence us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. The Sponsors indirectly own, through their ownership in Holdings, a substantial majority of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis because of the Transaction. As a result, the Sponsors have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Sponsors, or funds controlled by or associated with the Sponsors, continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of Holdings’ common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence our decisions. Food and Support Services Competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. There is significant competition in the food and support services business from local, regional, national and international companies, of varying sizes, many of which have substantial financial resources. Our ability to successfully compete depends on our ability to provide quality services at a reasonable price and to provide value to our customers. Certain of our competitors have been and may in the future be willing to underbid us or accept a lower profit margin or expend more capital in order to obtain or retain business. Also, certain regional and local service providers may be better established than we are within a specific geographic region. In addition, existing or potential clients may elect to self operate their food service, eliminating the opportunity for us to serve them or compete for the account. While we have a significant international presence, should business sector clients require multinational bidding, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage because we may not be able to offer as extensive a portfolio of services or services in as many countries as some of our competitors. Sales of sports, entertainment and recreational services have been, and in the future would be, adversely affected by a decline in attendance at client facilities or by a reduction or cessation of events. The portion of our food and support services business which provides services in public facilities such as convention centers and tourist and recreational attractions is sensitive to an economic downturn, as expenditures to take vacations or hold or attend conventions are funded to a partial or total extent by discretionary income. A decrease in such discretionary income on the part of potential attendees at our clients’ facilities have, and in the future could, result in a reduction in our sales. Further, because our exposure to the ultimate consumer of what we provide is limited by our dependence on our clients to attract customers to their facilities and events, our ability to respond to such a reduction in attendance, and therefore our sales, is limited. There are many factors that could reduce the numbers of events in a facility or attendance at an event, including labor disruptions involving sports leagues, poor performance by the teams playing in a facility, inclement weather and adverse economic conditions which would adversely affect sales and profits. For example, in 2011, the collective bargaining agreement for the players in the National Basketball Association expired and the players were locked out of the venues where they play. A resolution was reached; however, the duration of the season was shortened. Any decrease in the number of games played would mean a loss of sales and reduced profits at the venues we service. 18 The pricing and cancellation terms of our food and support services contracts may constrain our ability to recover costs and to make a profit on our contracts. The amount of risk that we bear and our profit potential vary depending on the type of contract under which we provide food and support services. We may be unable to fully recover costs on contracts that limit our ability to increase prices. In addition, we provide many of our services under contracts of indefinite term, which are subject to termination on short notice by either party without cause. Some of our profit and loss contracts contain minimum guaranteed remittances to our client regardless of our sales or profit at the facility involved. If sales do not exceed costs under a contract which contains minimum guaranteed commissions, we will bear any losses which are incurred, as well as the guaranteed commission. Generally, our contracts limit our ability to raise prices on the food, beverages and merchandise we sell within a particular facility without the client’s consent. In addition, some of our contracts exclude certain events or products from the scope of the contract, or give the client the right to modify the terms under which we may operate at certain events. The refusal by individual clients to permit the sale of some products at their venues, the imposition by clients of limits on prices which are not economically feasible for us, or decisions by clients to curtail their use of the services we provide could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our business is contract intensive and may lead to client disputes. Our business is contract intensive and we are parties to many contracts with clients all over the world. Our client interest contracts provide that client billings, and for some contracts the sharing of profits and losses, are based on our determinations of costs of service. Contract terms under which we base these determinations may be subject to differing interpretations which could result in disputes with our clients from time to time. Clients generally have the right to audit our contracts, and we periodically review our compliance with contract terms and provisions. If clients were to dispute our contract determinations, the resolution of such disputes in a manner adverse to our interests could negatively affect sales and operating results. While we do not believe any reviews, audits or other such matters should result in material adjustments, if a large number of our client arrangements were modified in response to any such matter, the effect could be materially adverse to our business or results of operations. Claims of illness or injury associated with the service of food and beverage to the public could adversely affect us. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry, and a number of these claims may exist at any given time. As a result, we could be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from food quality or handling claims at one or more of the facilities that we serve. In addition to decreasing sales and profitability at our facilities, adverse publicity could negatively impact our service reputation, hindering our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms or to obtain new business. In addition, future food product recalls and health concerns associated with food contamination may from time to time disrupt our business. In fiscal 2011, one distributor provided approximately 60.3% of our food and non-food products in the United States and Canada, and if our relationship or their business were to be disrupted, we could experience disruptions to our operations and cost structure in such countries. If our relationship with, or the business of, SYSCO, our main U.S. and Canadian distributor of our food and non-food products were to be disrupted, we would have to arrange alternative distributors and our operations and cost structure could be adversely affected in the short term. Similarly, a sudden termination of the relationship with a significant provider in other geographic areas could in the short term adversely affect our ability to provide services and disrupt our customer relationships in such areas. Governmental regulations relating to food and beverages may subject us to significant liability. The regulations relating to each of our food and support services segments are numerous and complex. A variety of regulations at various governmental levels relating to the handling, preparation and serving of food 19 (including in some cases requirements relating to the temperature of food), and the cleanliness of food production facilities and the hygiene of food-handling personnel are enforced primarily at the local public health department level. We cannot assure you that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations. Furthermore, legislation and regulatory attention to food safety is very high. Additional or amended regulations in this area may significantly increase the cost of compliance. We serve alcoholic beverages at many facilities, and must comply with applicable licensing laws, as well as state and local service laws, commonly called dram shop statutes. Dram shop statutes generally prohibit serving alcoholic beverages to certain persons such as an individual who is intoxicated or a minor. If we violate dram shop laws, we may be liable to the patron and/or third parties for the acts of the patron. Although we sponsor regular training programs designed to minimize the likelihood of such a situation, we cannot guarantee that intoxicated or minor patrons will not be served or that liability for their acts will not be imposed on us. There can be no assurance that additional regulation in this area would not limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We must also obtain and comply with the terms of licenses in order to sell alcoholic beverages in the states in which we serve alcoholic beverages. Some of our contracts require us to pay liquidated damages during any period in which our liquor license for the facility is suspended, and most contracts are subject to termination if we lose our liquor license for the facility. Uniform and Career Apparel Competition in the uniform rental industry could adversely affect our results of operations. We have a number of major national competitors in the uniform rental industry with significant financial resources. In addition, there are regional and local uniform suppliers whom we believe may have strong customer loyalty. While most customers focus primarily on quality of service, uniform rental also is a price-sensitive service and if existing or future competitors seek to gain customers or accounts by reducing prices, we may be required to lower prices, which would reduce our sales and profits. The uniform rental business requires investment capital for growth. Failure to maintain capital investment in this business would put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, due to competition in our uniform rental business, it has become increasingly important for us to source garments and other products overseas, particularly in Asia. To the extent we are not able to effectively source such products in Asia and gain the related cost savings, we may be at a further disadvantage in relation to some of our competitors. Economic and business conditions affecting our customer base and our operating costs could negatively impact our sales and operating results. We supply uniform services to the airline, automotive, hospitality, retail and manufacturing industries, among others, all of which have been subject to one or more of shifting employment levels, changes in worker productivity, uncertainty regarding the impacts of rehiring, a shift to offshore manufacturing and bankruptcy. Economic hardship among our client base could cause some of our clients to restrict expenditures or even cease to conduct business, both of which could negatively affect our sales and operating results. Our operations are exposed to increases in garment, raw materials and fuel prices. The cost of cotton, gasoline and diesel fuel and natural gas has fluctuated significantly in the United States in the last several years. To the extent we are not able to mitigate or pass on our increased costs to customers—for fuel expenses or any other of our costs that may increase—our operating results may be negatively affected. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our results of operations. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We seek to require our suppliers to comply with applicable laws and otherwise be certified as meeting our supplier standards of 20 conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. In addition, insolvency experienced by suppliers could make it difficult for us to source our products. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, United States foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks related to our indebtedness Our leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We are highly leveraged. As of September 30, 2011, our outstanding indebtedness was $5,637.7 million, including our senior notes and our receivables facility. We had additional availability of approximately $646.7 million under our revolving credit facility at that date. Our Parent Company also has $600 million of indebtedness. This degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, our receivables facility and our senior floating rate notes, are at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior fixed rate notes and our senior floating rate notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. If our financial performance were to deteriorate, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to 21 certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. While we believe that we currently have adequate cash flows to service our indebtedness, if our financial performance were to deteriorate significantly, we might be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If, due to such a deterioration in our financial performance, our cash flows and capital resources were to be insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, if we were required to raise additional capital in the current financial markets, the terms of such financing, if available, could result in higher costs and greater restrictions on our business. In addition, although a significant amount of our long-term borrowings do not mature until 2013 and later, if we were to need to refinance our existing indebtedness, the conditions in the financial markets at that time could make it difficult to refinance our existing indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. If such alternative measures proved unsuccessful, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior fixed rate notes and senior floating rate notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior fixed rate notes and senior floating rate notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness, refinance or restructure indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, make unscheduled payments on our notes, repurchase or redeem our notes or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. Our senior notes due 2012 contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to merge or consolidate with or into any person, enter into liens on principal property, enter into sale and lease back transactions, or to sell, lease or convey all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and in the event of a significant deterioration of our financial performance, we cannot assure you that we will satisfy those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit agreement. Upon our failure to maintain compliance with these covenants that is not waived by the lenders under the revolving credit facility, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such facilities. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit agreement. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment 22 of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay those borrowings, as well as our unsecured indebtedness. If our senior secured indebtedness was accelerated by the lenders as a result of a default, our senior notes due 2015 and our senior notes due 2012 may become due and payable as well. Any such acceleration may also constitute an amortization event under our receivables facility, which could result in the amount outstanding under that facility becoming due and payable. Our Parent Company’s $600 million 8.625%/9.375% Senior Notes due 2016 (the Parent Company Notes) accrues interest at the rate of 8.625% per annum with respect to interest payments made in cash and 9.375% per annum with respect to any payment in-kind interest. Holdings is obligated to pay interest on the Parent Company Notes in cash to the extent the Company has sufficient capacity to distribute such amounts to Holdings under the covenants to the Company’s outstanding indebtedness, including the senior secured revolving credit facility, the senior secured term loan facility, the 8.50% senior notes due 2015 and the senior floating rate notes due 2015. To the extent the Company distributes cash to the Parent Company to make interest payments, there will be less cash to invest in our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 