Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We wish to caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors listed below are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report, in our other filings with the SEC, in our news releases, written or electronic communications, and verbal statements by our representatives. You should be aware that forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may cause our or our industry's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are generally accompanied by words like "believes," "anticipates," "estimates," "predicts," "expects," and other similar expressions that convey uncertainty about future events or outcomes. Risks Related to Our Business Competition may adversely affect our operations and financial results. The restaurant business is highly competitive as to price, service, restaurant location, nutritional and dietary trends and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. We compete within each market with locally-owned restaurants as well as national and regional restaurant chains, some of which operate more restaurants and have greater financial resources and longer operating histories than ours. There is active competition for management personnel and hourly team members, and for attractive commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. Further, we also face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals in the form of improved entrees and side dishes. We compete primarily on the quality, variety, and value perception of menu items, as well as the quality and efficiency of service. Our sales volumes generally decrease in winter months. Our sales volumes fluctuate seasonally and are generally higher in the summer months and lower in the winter months, which may cause seasonal fluctuations in our operating results. 8 Changes in governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants and to maintain our existing and future operations. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by alcoholic beverage control, health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state, county and/or municipality where the restaurant is located. We generally have not encountered any material difficulties or failures in obtaining and maintaining the required licenses and approvals that could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant, or impact the continuing operations of an existing restaurant. Although we do not, at this time, anticipate any occurring in the future, we cannot assure you that we will not experience material difficulties or failures that could delay the opening of restaurants in the future, or impact the continuing operations of an existing restaurant. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act (which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions), along with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We expect increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage and although such increases are not expected to be material, we cannot assure you that there will not be material increases in the future. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor for our restaurants in a particular area or across the United States. Other labor shortages or increased team member turnover could also increase labor costs. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards or availability of labor, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. We are also subject to federal and state environmental regulations, and although these have not had a material negative effect on our operations, we cannot ensure that there will not be a material negative effect in the future. More stringent and varied requirements of local and state governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay, prevent, or make cost prohibitive the development of new restaurants in particular locations. Inflation may increase our operating expenses. We have experienced impact from inflation. Inflation has caused increased food, labor and benefits costs and has increased our operating expenses. We may continue to experience increased food costs due to the diversion of food crop production to non-traditional uses, as well as increased food costs due to increased fuel costs for our vendors. As operating expenses increase, we, to the extent permitted by competition, recover increased costs by increasing menu prices, or by reviewing, then implementing, alternative products or processes, or by implementing other cost reduction procedures. We cannot ensure, however, that we will be able to continue to recover increases in operating expenses due to inflation in this manner. Our profitability may be adversely affected by increases in energy costs. Our success depends in part on our ability to absorb increases in utility costs, in particular electricity and natural gas. Various regions of the United States in which we operate multiple restaurants have experienced significant increases in utility prices. These increases have affected costs and if they continue to occur, it would have further adverse effects on our profitability to the extent not otherwise recoverable through price increases or alternative products, processes or cost reduction procedures. 9 Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements (such as recent reports on tomatoes and jalapenos), or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations. Successful mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions are important to our future growth and profitability. We evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, franchisees of new and existing restaurants, joint venture investments, and divestitures as part of our strategic planning initiative. These transactions involve various inherent risks, including accurately assessing: •the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; •our ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; •unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business; and •our ability to complete divestitures on acceptable terms and at or near the prices estimated as attainable by us. If we are unable to meet our growth plan, our profitability in the future may be adversely affected. Our ability to meet our growth plan is dependent upon, among other things, our and our franchisees' ability to: •identify available, suitable and economically viable locations for new restaurants, •identify adequate sources of capital to fund and finance strategic initiatives, including remodeling of existing restaurants and new restaurant development, •obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals and liquor licenses) on a timely basis, •hire all necessary contractors and subcontractors and obtain construction materials at suitable prices, •meet construction schedules, and •hire and train qualified managers and team members for the restaurants. The costs related to restaurant and brand development include purchases and leases of land, buildings and equipment and facility and equipment maintenance, repair and replacement. The labor and materials costs involved vary geographically and are subject to general price increases. As a result, future capital expenditure costs of restaurant development may increase, reducing profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our capacity in accordance with our growth objectives or that the new restaurants and brands opened or acquired will be profitable. 10 Unfavorable publicity relating to one or more of our restaurants in a particular brand may taint public perception of the brand. Multi-unit restaurant businesses can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness or health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. In particular, since we depend heavily on the Chili's brand for a majority of our revenues, unfavorable publicity relating to one or more Chili's restaurants could have a material adverse effect on the Chili's brand, and consequently on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Identification of material weakness in internal control may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Those provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control. If such a material weakness is identified, it could indicate a lack of adequate controls to generate accurate financial statements. We routinely assess our internal controls, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting team members, especially in light of the increased demand for such individuals among publicly traded companies. Other risk factors may adversely affect our financial performance. Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements by affecting, among many things, pricing, consumer spending and consumer confidence, include, without limitation, changes in economic conditions and financial and credit markets (including rising interest rates and costs for consumers and reduced disposable income), credit availability, increased costs of food commodities, increased fuel costs and availability for our team members, customers and suppliers, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events (such as reports on avian flu), consumer perceptions of food safety, changes in consumer tastes and behaviors, governmental monetary policies, changes in demographic trends, availability of employees, terrorist acts, energy shortages and rolling blackouts, and weather (including, major hurricanes and regional winter storms) and other acts of God. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 11 