ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, results, and financial condition.Our operating results can fluctuate dramatically. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Fluctuations in operating results can result from a wide variety of factors, including: •global economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets;•changes in the demand for and mix of products sold and in the markets we and our customers serve;•the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry;•the availability of industry-wide wafer processing capacity;•the availability of industry-wide and package specific assembly subcontract capacity and related raw materials;•competitive pricing pressures;•the success and timing of new product and process technology announcements and introductions from us or our competitors; •potential loss of market share among a concentrated group of customers;•difficulty in attracting and retaining key personnel;•difficulty in predicting customer product requirements;•production difficulties and interruptions caused by our complex manufacturing and logistics operations;•reduced control over our manufacturing and product delivery as a result of our increasing reliance on subcontractors, foundry and other manufacturing services;•unrealized potential of acquired businesses and resulting assets impairment;10Table of Contents•availability and costs of raw materials from a limited number of suppliers;•political and economic conditions in various geographic areas; •reduced customer demand as a result of the impact from natural and/or man-made disasters which may adversely impact our customer's manufacturing capability or reduce our customer's ability to acquire critical materials or components to manufacture their end products;•costs associated with other events, such as intellectual property disputes or other litigation; and•legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation.Global economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.Adverse changes in global financial markets and rapidly deteriorating business conditions in the world's developed economies in late 2008 and the first half of calendar year 2009 resulted in a significant global economic recession. Continuing concerns about the impact of high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a declining real estate market in the U.S. and sovereign debt crises in Europe and the U.S. have contributed to instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets, weakened demand and diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. These conditions, and the resulting low business and consumer confidence, and high unemployment have contributed to substantial volatility in global capital markets and uncertain demand for our products throughout fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011, and in fiscal 2012. It is difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities in this economic environment.The economic slowdown resulted in reduced customer spending for semiconductors and weakened demand for our products, which had a negative impact on our revenue, gross profit, results of operations and cash flows during fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012. Global credit markets continue to be volatile and sustainable improvement in global economic activity is uncertain. Should the rate of global economic growth falter, customer demand for our products may continue to decline, which is likely to have a negative impact on our revenue, gross profit, results of operations and cash flows. Reduced customer spending and weakened demand may drive the semiconductor industry to reduce product pricing, which would also have a negative impact on our revenue, gross profit and results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, deterioration in general economic conditions and we cannot accurately predict how severe and prolonged any downturn might be. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry exacerbates the volatility of our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers, but also related to declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by volatile customer demand, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future economic downturns could materially and adversely affect our business from one period to the next relative to demand and product pricing. In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced periods of increased demand, during which we may experience internal and external manufacturing constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry.Demand for our products depends primarily on demand in the communications, enterprise computing, personal computer (PC), and consumer markets which can be significantly affected by concerns over macroeconomic issues. Our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, computing, and consumer markets. Our strategy and resources are directed at the development, production and marketing of products for these markets. The markets for our products will depend on continued and growing demand for communications equipment, servers, PCs and consumer electronics. These end-user markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our business and could be greater in periods of economic uncertainty and contraction. To the extent demand or markets for our products or markets for our products do not grow, our business could be adversely affected.We are reliant upon subcontractors and third-party foundries. We are dependent on third-party subcontractors for all of our assembly operations. We are also dependent on third-party outside foundries for the manufacture of our silicon wafers. Our increased reliance on subcontractors and third-party foundries for our current products increases certain risks because we will have less control over manufacturing quality and delivery schedules, maintenance of sufficient capacity to meet our orders and generally, maintaining the manufacturing processes we require. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we completed the transfer of our internal wafer fabrication production to outside foundries. Due to production lead times and potential capacity constraints, any failure on our part to adequately forecast the mix of product demand 11Table of Contentsand resulting foundry and subcontractor requirements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot be certain that these foundries and subcontractors will continue to manufacture, assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms, or at all, and it may be difficult for us to find alternatives in a timely and cost-effective manner if they do not do so.We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures which could divert management's attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, be difficult to integrate, and/or adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions and divestitures are commonplace in the semiconductor industry and we have acquired and divested, and may continue to acquire or divest, businesses and technologies. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Acquisitions or divestitures could divert our management's attention and other resources from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions and divestitures could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, dilutive or potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Consequently, we might not be successful in acquiring or integrating any new businesses, products, or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. In addition, we might be unsuccessful in finding or completing acquisition or divestiture opportunities on acceptable terms in a timely manner.Our proposed acquisition of PLX Technology, Inc., may not be successfully completed, and even if it is completed, we may not be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. On April 30, 2012, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with PLX Technology, Inc (PLX), pursuant to which we will commence an exchange offer (offer) to purchase all of the outstanding shares of PLX common stock, $0.001 par value, in exchange for consideration, per share of PLX common stock, comprised of (i) $3.50 in cash plus (ii) 0.525 of a share of IDT common stock, without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes, with the ultimate goal of merging PLX with and into one of our wholly owned subsidiaries (merger). The offer and the merger are subject to the satisfaction or, where permissible, waiver of a number of conditions, many of which are out of our control, including there being tendered enough shares of PLX common stock in the offer to constitute a majority of the voting power of PLX common stock outstanding and the expiration of applicable waiting periods under antitrust regulations. As a result, the offer and the merger may not be successfully completed. Furthermore, if the completion of the offer and the merger are substantially delayed, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of the merger on a timely basis or at all.Even if the offer and the merger were completed, the successful integration of PLX's business and operations into those of our own and our ability to realize the expected synergies and benefits of the transaction are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things:•our ability to complete the timely integration of organizations, operations, procedures, policies and technologies, as well as the harmonization of differences in the business cultures of the two companies and retention of key personnel;•our ability to minimize the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns during the process of integrating the two companies;•our ability to preserve customer, supplier and other important relationships of both IDT and PLX and resolve potential conflicts that may arise; and •our ability to address differences in the business cultures of IDT and PLX to maintain employee morale and retain key employees.In addition, the offer and the merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to the combined company's earnings per share, which may negatively affect the price of our common stock following consummation of the offer and the merger. Any failure to realize the full benefits and synergies of the offer and the merger could adversely impact our business, results of operation and financial condition.We currently expect to take on significant debt to finance the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, and such increased debt levels could adversely affect its business, cash flow and results of operations.We currently expect to borrow up to $185 million in connection with the consummation of the offer and the merger, which will significantly increase our outstanding indebtedness and interest expense. In order to provide the merger consideration, prepay PLX's bank indebtedness, and pay related fees and expenses, we currently expect to sell shares of preferred stock of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries to Bank of America, N.A. (Bank of America) pursuant to a master repurchase agreement we signed with Bank of America on June 13, 2011 (the Repurchase Agreement). In addition, we have arranged commitments for $75 million 12Table of Contentsof new financing with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPM) in connection with the offer and the merger (the Credit Facility). The degree to which we are leveraged under the repurchase agreement and the credit facility will increase our interest expense and could have other important consequences, such as:•increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to principal and interest, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other cash requirements;•limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes and opportunities in, our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and•limiting our ability to incur additional debt or obtain other additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all.These financing arrangements, and any restrictions included therein, may have an adverse impact on IDT's business, cash flow and results of operations, and could adversely affect the value of IDT's common stock. In addition, the terms of the financing obligations under the Repurchase Agreement and the Credit Facility include restrictions, such as affirmative and negative covenants, conditions to the transactions and the pledge of security interests in certain of IDT's assets. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under the Repurchase Agreement or the Credit Facility or could require us to obtain waivers from Bank of America or JPM for failure to comply with these restrictions. In addition, our ability to meet our obligations, including any repayment obligations, under the Repurchase Agreement and the Credit Facility will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could have a material adverse effect on IDT's business, financial condition or results of operations.We build most of our products based on estimated demand forecasts. Demand for our products can change rapidly and without advance notice. Demand can also be affected by changes in our customers' levels of inventory and differences in the timing and pattern of orders from their end customers. A large percentage of our revenue in the APAC region is recognized upon shipment to our distributors. Consequently, we have less visibility over both inventory levels at our distributors and end customer demand for our products. Further, the distributors have assumed more risk associated with changes in end demand for our products. Accordingly, significant changes in end demand in the semiconductor business in general, or for our products in particular, may be difficult for us to detect or otherwise measure, which could cause us to incorrectly forecast end-market demand for our products. If we are not able to accurately forecast end demand for our products, we may be left with large amounts of unsold products, may not be able to fill all actual orders, and may not be able to efficiently utilize our existing manufacturing capacity or make optimal investment and other business decisions. As a result, we may end up with excess and obsolete inventory or we may be unable to meet customer short-term demands, either of which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. If we are unable to execute our business strategy successfully, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to be a leading provider of essential mixed signal semiconductor solutions will be affected, without limitation, by: (1) our ability to continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio including focus on the development and growth of new applications; (2) our ability to continue to maintain existing customers, aggressively pursue and win new customers; (3) our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market new products in a timely manner; (4) our ability to develop new products in a more efficient manner ; (5) our ability to sufficiently differentiate and enhance of our products; (6) our ability to successfully deploy R&D investment in the areas of displays, silicon timing, power management, signal integrity and radio frequency and (7) our ability to rationalize our manufacturing operations including the transition to wholly outsourced wafer fabrication operations. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses.Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors is subject to one or more of the risk factors set forth in this report. Several risks that could affect our ability to implement our business strategy are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy.13Table of ContentsOur results are dependent on the success of new products. The markets we serve are characterized by competition, rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and continuous erosion of average selling prices. Consequently, our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to continually develop new products using the latest and most cost-effective technologies, introduce our products in commercial quantities to the marketplace ahead of the competition and have our products selected for inclusion in leading system manufacturers' products. In addition, the development of new products will continue to require significant R&D expenditures. If we are unable to successfully develop, produce and market new products in a timely manner, have our products available in commercial quantities ahead of competitive products or have our products selected for inclusion in products of systems manufacturers and sell them at gross margins comparable to or better than our current products, our future results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our future revenue growth is also partially dependent on our ability to penetrate new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors are already entrenched. Even if we are able to develop, produce and successfully market new products in a timely manner, such new products may not achieve market acceptance. The above described events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and ultimately leading to impairment of assets. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers for a significant part of our revenues. A large portion of our revenues depends on sales to a limited number of customers. If these relationships were to diminish, or if these customers were to develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor's solution instead of buying our products, our results could be adversely affected. Many of our end-customer original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) have outsourced their manufacturing to a concentrated group of global electronics manufacturing service (EMSs) providers and original design manufacturers (ODMs) who then buy products directly from us or from our distributors on behalf of the OEM. These EMSs and ODMs have achieved greater autonomy in the design win, product qualification and product purchasing decisions, especially for commodity products. Competition for the business from EMSs and ODMs is intense and there is no assurance we can remain competitive and retain our existing market share with these customers. If these companies were to allocate a higher share of commodity or second-source business to our competitors instead of buying our products, our results would be adversely affected. Furthermore, as EMSs and ODMs have represented a growing percentage of our overall business, our concentration of credit and other business risks with these customers has increased. Competition among global EMSs and ODMs is intense as they operate on very low margins. If any one or more of our global EMSs or ODMs customers were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business would be adversely affected as well.In addition, we utilize a relatively small number of global and regional distributors around the world, who buy product directly from us on behalf of their customers. For example, sales through three distributors represented 15% , 11% and 10% of the Company's net revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2012. In addition, at April 1, 2012, three distributors represented 19%, 16%, and 12% of the Company's gross accounts receivable. If our business relationships with any of these distributors were to diminish or any of these distributors were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business could be adversely affected. Because we continue to be dependent on product demand from a small group of OEM end customers and global and regional distributors, any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from or loss of these or other major customers could cause our revenue to decline significantly.We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate raw materials on a timely basis. The number of suppliers of certain raw materials, such as silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals and certain chemicals and gases needed for our products, is very limited. In addition, certain packages for our products require long lead times and are available from only a few suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times or limited supply to us due to capacity constraints. Our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials, or if foundry or assembly subcontractor capacity were not available, or if capacity were only available at unfavorable prices.Our operations and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters.A majority of the third-party foundries and subcontractors we currently use are located in Malaysia, South Korea, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and China. In addition, we own a test facility in Malaysia. The risk of an earthquake or tsunami in these Pacific Rim locations is significant, as highlighted by the severe earthquakes and tsunami that struck the northeast coast of 14Table of ContentsJapan in March 2011 and the massive flooding in Thailand in October 2011. While we did not experience a significant impact on our operation from these disasters, the occurrence of an earthquake, drought, floods, fires, or other natural disaster near any of these locations could cause a significant reduction of end-customer demand and/or availability of materials, a disruption of the global supply chain, an increase in the cost of products that we purchase, and otherwise interfere with our ability to conduct business. In addition, public health issues, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events could significantly delay the production or shipment of our products. Although we maintain insurance for some of the damage that may be caused by natural disasters, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and would not cover us for lost business. As a result, a natural disaster in one or more of these regions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata, or deviations from published specifications, due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our design and manufacturing processes, could include: •writing off the value of inventory of such products;•disposing of products that cannot be fixed;•recalling such products that have been shipped to customers;•providing product replacements for, or modifications to, such products; and•defending against litigation related to such products.These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. The announcement of product defects and/or errata could cause customers to purchase products from our competitors as a result of anticipated shortages of our components or for other reasons. These factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business.If the credit market conditions deteriorate, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Although we manage our investment portfolio by purchasing only highly rated securities and diversifying our investments across various sectors, investment types, and underlying issuers, recent volatility in the short-term financial markets has been high. We have no securities in asset backed commercial paper and hold no auction rated or mortgage backed securities. However it is uncertain as to the full extent of the current credit and liquidity crisis and with possible further deterioration, particularly within one or several of the large financial institutions, the value of our investments could be negatively impacted. Intellectual property claims against and/or on behalf of the Company could adversely affect our business and operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have been involved with patent litigation and asserted intellectual property claims in the past, both as a plaintiff and a defendant, some of which have adversely affected our operating results. Although we have obtained patent licenses from certain semiconductor manufacturers, we do not have licenses from a number of semiconductor manufacturers that have broad patent portfolios. Claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights have been asserted against us in the past and could be asserted against us in the future. As a result of these claims, we may have to discontinue the use of certain processes, license certain technologies, cease the manufacture, use, and sale of infringing products; incur significant litigation costs and damages and develop non-infringing technology. We might not be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms or develop non-infringing technology. Further, the failure to renew or renegotiate existing licenses on favorable terms, or the inability to obtain a key license, could materially and adversely affect our business. Future litigation, either as a plaintiff or a defendant, could adversely affect our operating results, as a result of increased expenses, the cost of settled claims, and/or payment of damages.Our product manufacturing operations are complex and subject to interruption. From time to time, we have experienced production difficulties, including lower manufacturing yields or products that do not meet our or our customers' specifications, which has resulted in delivery delays, quality problems and lost revenue opportunities. While delivery delays have been infrequent and generally short in duration, we could experience manufacturing problems, capacity constraints and/or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, the complexity of our manufacturing processes, changes to our process technologies (including transfers to other facilities and die size reduction efforts), and difficulties 15Table of Contentsin ramping production. In addition, any significant quality problems could damage our reputation with our customers and could take focus away from the development of new and enhanced products. These could have a significant negative impact on our financial results.We are dependent upon electric power and water provided by public utilities where we operate our manufacturing facility. We maintain limited backup generating capability, but the amount of electric power that we can generate on our own is insufficient to fully operate this facility, and prolonged power interruptions and restrictions on our access to water could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Tax benefits we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. As a result of our international manufacturing operations, a significant portion of our worldwide profits are in jurisdictions outside the United States, primarily Malaysia, which has granted the Company significant reductions in tax rates. These lower tax rates allow us to record a relatively low tax expense on a worldwide basis. Under current Malaysia law, we are not subject to tax on our operational and investment income. If U.S. corporate income tax laws were to change regarding deferral of manufacturing profits or other matters impacting our operating structure, this would have a significant impact to our financial results. In addition, we were granted a tax holiday in Malaysia during fiscal 2009. The tax holiday was contingent upon us continuing to meet specified investment criteria in fixed assets, and to operate as an APAC regional headquarters center. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we agreed with the Malaysia Industrial Development Board (MIDA) to cancel this tax holiday and entered into a new tax holiday which is a full tax exemption on statutory income for a period of 10 years commencing April 4, 2011. We are required to meet several requirements as to financial targets, investment, headcount and activities in Malaysia to retain this status. Our inability to renew this tax holiday when it expires or meet certain conditions of the agreement with MIDA may adversely impact our effective tax rate. Our financial results may be adversely affected by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Tax audits may have a material adverse effect on our profitability.As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region in which we operate. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States (U.S.), is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority such as the Internal Revenue Service in the United States could have a material effect on our profitability.The costs associated with legal proceedings can be substantial, specific costs are unpredictable and not completely within our control, and unexpected increases in litigation costs could adversely affect our operating results. We have been involved in various legal proceedings, an example of which is described above in Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings." The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable, and are not completely within our control. While we do our best to forecast and control such costs, the costs may be materially more than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, we may become involved in unexpected litigation with additional litigants at any time, which would increase our aggregate litigation costs, and could adversely affect our operating results. We are not able to predict the outcome of any of any legal action, and an adverse decision in any legal action could significantly harm our business and financial performance.The loss of the services of any key personnel may adversely affect our business and growth prospects. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees could adversely affect our business. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to successfully compete with other technology firms in attracting and retaining specialized technical and management personnel. If we are unable to identify, hire, and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, our business and growth prospects could be adversely affected.16Table of ContentsOur results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of stock-based compensation expense under the authoritative guidance requires us to use valuation methodologies that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options and make a number of assumptions, estimates, and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price and the exercise behavior of our employees. Changes in these variables could affect our stock-based compensation expense and have a significant and potentially adverse affect on our gross margins, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses.Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), SEC and various organizations formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards and practices. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective.International operations add increased volatility to our operating results. A substantial percentage of our total revenues are derived from international sales, as summarized below: (percentage of total revenues)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal 2010Asia Pacific66% 65% 66%Americas15% 16% 18%Japan8% 9% 8%Europe11% 10% 8%Total100% 100% 100%In addition, our test facility in Malaysia, our design centers in Canada and China, and our foreign sales offices incur payroll, facility, and other expenses in local currencies. Accordingly, movements in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our revenues and costs of goods sold, as well as both pricing and demand for our products. Our non-U.S. offshore sites, manufacturing subcontractors and export sales are also subject to risks associated with foreign operations, including: •political instability and acts of war or terrorism, which could disrupt our manufacturing and logistical activities; •regulations regarding use of local employees and suppliers;•currency controls and fluctuations, devaluation of foreign currencies, hard currency shortages and exchange rate fluctuations;•changes in local economic conditions; •governmental regulation of taxation of our earnings and those of our personnel; and•changes in tax laws, import and export controls, tariffs and freight rates. Contract pricing for raw materials and equipment used in the fabrication and assembly processes, as well as for foundry and subcontract assembly services, may also be affected by currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and currency devaluations. We sometimes hedge currency risk for currencies that are highly liquid and freely quoted, but may not enter into hedge contracts for currencies with limited trading volume. In addition, as much of our revenues are generated outside the United States, a significant portion of our cash and investment portfolio accumulates in the foreign countries in which we operate. On April 1, 2012, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of approximately $243.3 million invested overseas in accounts belonging to our foreign subsidiaries. While these amounts are primarily invested in U.S. dollars, a portion is held in foreign currencies, and all offshore 17Table of Contentsbalances are exposed to local political, banking, currency control and other risks. In addition, these amounts may be subject to tax and other transfer restrictions. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity instruments of private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors as well as their ability to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity investment in a private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. When the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. We may incur losses on the disposal of our non-marketable investments. Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company's income or loss, such income or loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges for equity and other investments. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business. We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, communication lines and networking equipment. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. While we believe that our information systems are appropriately controlled and that we have processes in place to adequately manage these risks, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. Over the past several years, we have made several acquisitions. As a result of these acquisitions, we had over $1 billion of goodwill and over $204 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet at the beginning of fiscal 2009. As a result of our impairment analysis in fiscal 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $946.3 million and an acquisition-related intangible asset impairment charge of $79.4 million. In determining fair value, we consider various factors including our market capitalization, forecasted revenue and costs, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, determination of appropriate market comparables and expected periods over which our assets will be utilized and other variables. If our assumptions regarding forecasted cash flow, revenue and margin growth rates of certain long-lived asset groups and reporting units are not achieved, an impairment review may be triggered for the remaining balance of goodwill and long-lived assets prior to the next annual review in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, which could result in material charges that could impact our operating results and financial position. We have limited experience with government contracting, which entails differentiated business risks. We may from time-to-time derive revenue from contracts and subcontracts with agencies of, or prime or secondary contractors to, the U.S. government, including U.S. military agencies. Consequently, we are subject to certain business risks that are particular to companies that contract with U.S. government agencies. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government or related contractors to unilaterally:•terminate contracts at its convenience;•terminate, modify or reduce the value of existing contracts, if budgetary constraints or needs change;•cancel multi-year contracts and related orders, if funds become unavailable;18Table of Contents•adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits performed by U.S. government agencies;•control and potentially prohibit the export of our products;•require that the we continue to supply products despite the expiration of a contract under certain circumstances; •require that we fill certain types of rated orders for the U.S. government prior to filling any orders for other customers; and•suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of any alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. In addition, because we may enter into defense industry contracts with respect to products that are sold both within and outside of the United States, we are subject to the following additional risks in connection with government contracts:•the need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties, delays and/or cost overruns;•the difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term fixed price contracts; and•the need to transfer and obtain security clearances and export licenses, as appropriate.The revenue from, and activity with, contracts and subcontracts with agencies of, or prime contractors to, the U.S. government, has declined subsequent to the disposition of our military business in November 2009.Our common stock may experience substantial price volatility. Our stock price has experienced volatility in the past, and volatility in the price of our common stock may occur in the future, particularly as a result of fluctuations in global economic conditions and quarter-to-quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, or the financial results of other semiconductor companies or our customers. Stock price volatility may also result from product announcements by us or our competitors, or from changes in perceptions about the various types of products we manufacture and sell. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to price and volume fluctuations in the stock market, especially in the technology sector, and as a result of other considerations or events described in this section.We depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Any political, military, world health or other issue which hinders the worldwide movement of our personnel, raw materials, equipment or products or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. Furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other material disruption on the part of major airlines or other transportation companies could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly affect our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.We are subject to a variety of environmental and other regulations related to hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes. The manufacturing and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Any failure by us to adequately control the use or discharge of hazardous materials under present or future regulations could subject us to substantial costs or liabilities or cause our manufacturing operations to be suspended. Existing and future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, and test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and test processes.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.19Table of Contents