Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We wish to caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors listed below are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report, in our other filings with the SEC, in our news releases, written or electronic communications, and verbal statements by our representatives. You should be aware that forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may cause our or our industry’s actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are generally accompanied by words like “believes,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “expects,” and other similar expressions that convey uncertainty about future events or outcomes. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business Competition may adversely affect our operations and financial results. The restaurant business is highly competitive as to price, service, restaurant location, nutritional and dietary trends and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. We compete within each market with locally-owned restaurants as well as national and regional restaurant chains, some of which operate more restaurants and have greater financial resources and longer operating histories than ours. Despite a weak U.S. employment market, there is active competition for quality management personnel and hourly team members. We continue to face competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals in the form of improved entrees and side dishes, as well as the trend in quick service and fast casual restaurants toward higher quality food and beverage offerings. We compete primarily on the quality, variety and value perception of menu items, as well as the quality and efficiency of service, the attractiveness of facilities and the effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs. 8 Our restaurants also face competition from the introduction of new products and menu items by competitors, as well as substantial price discounting and other offers, and are likely to continue to face such competition in the future. Although we may implement a number of business strategies, the future success of new products, initiatives and overall strategies is highly difficult to predict and will be influenced by competitive product offerings, pricing and promotions offered by competitors. Our ability to differentiate our brands from their competitors, which is in part limited by the advertising monies available to us and by consumer perception, cannot be assured. These factors could reduce the gross sales or profitability at our restaurants, which would reduce the revenues generated by company-owned restaurants and royalty payments from franchisees. Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid our products in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry as a whole rests on consumer preferences and demographic trends at the local, regional, national and international levels, and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. We and our franchisees depend on the sustained demand for our products, which may be affected by factors we do not control. Changes in nutritional guidelines issued by the federal government agencies, issuance of similar guidelines or statistical information by other federal, state or local municipalities, academic studies, or advocacy organizations among other things, may impact consumer choice and cause consumers to select foods other than those that are offered by our restaurants. We may not be able to adequately adapt our menu offerings to keep pace with developments in current consumer preferences, which may result in reductions to the revenues generated by our company-owned restaurants and the payments we receive from franchisees. The global economic crisis continues to impact consumer discretionary spending and a prolonged economic recovery could result in declines in consumer discretionary spending materially affecting our financial performance in the future. The restaurant industry is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending. Consumer confidence has not recovered from historic lows impacting the public’s ability and/or desire to spend discretionary dollars as a result of job losses, home foreclosures, significantly reduced home values, investment losses in the financial markets, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit. Current international fiscal concerns threaten to weaken the slow U.S. economic recovery. While sales and traffic gains have been made by the restaurant industry and our restaurants in fiscal 2012, the economic improvement in the restaurant industry continues to come from cost savings initiatives as well as our success to improve our guest experience within our existing restaurant locations. If this current weak economic recovery continues for a prolonged period of time and/or deepens in magnitude returning to the negative trends of the prior years, our business, results of operations and ability to comply with the covenants under our credit facility could be materially affected. Leading economic indicators such as employment and consumer confidence remain challenged and may not show meaningful improvement in fiscal 2013. Deterioration in guest traffic and/or a reduction in the average amount guests spend in our restaurants will negatively impact our revenues. This will result in lower royalties collected, sales deleverage, spreading fixed costs across a lower level of sales, and will, in turn cause downward pressure on our profitability. The result could be further reductions in staff levels, asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures. Future weak global economic results or recessionary effects on us are unknown at this time and could have a potential material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the government’s plan to restore fiscal responsibility or future plans to stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the financial markets, increase liquidity and the availability of credit, or result in lower unemployment, which remains stubbornly high at the present time. The current weak economic recovery could have a material adverse impact on our landlords or other tenants in retail centers in which we or our franchisees are located, which in turn could negatively affect our financial results. If the weak economic recovery continues or returns to recessionary levels, our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in failures to pay required construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. In addition other tenants at retail 9 centers in which we or our franchisees are located or have executed leases may fail to open or may cease operations. If our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies, such failures may result in us or our franchisees terminating leases or delaying openings in these locations. Also, decreases in total tenant occupancy in retail centers in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Inflation may increase our operating expenses. We have experienced impact from inflation. Inflation has caused increased food, labor and benefits costs and has increased our operating expenses. As operating expenses increase, we, to the extent permitted by competition, recover increased costs by increasing menu prices, or by reviewing, then implementing, alternative products or processes, or by implementing other cost reduction procedures. We cannot ensure, however, that we will be able to continue to recover increases in operating expenses due to inflation in this manner. Changes in governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing and future operations and to open new restaurants. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act (which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions), along with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters, including, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status. We expect increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage, and although such increases are not expected to be material, we cannot assure you that there will not be material increases in the future. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor for our restaurants in a particular area or across the United States. Other labor shortages or increased team member turnover could also increase labor costs. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards or availability of labor, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. We continue to review the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March of 2010 and regulations issued related to the law to evaluate the potential impact of this new law on our business, and to accommodate various parts of the law as they take effect. There are no assurances that a combination of cost management and price increases can accommodate all of the costs associated with compliance. We are subject to laws and regulations, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, relating to nutritional content and menu labeling. Compliance with these laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity, changes in sales mix and profitability, and increased exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. We do not expect to incur material costs from compliance with the provision of the new health care law requiring disclosure of calories on the menus, but cannot reliably anticipate any changes in guest behavior resulting from implementation of this portion of the law, which could have adverse effects on our sales or results of operations. Each of our and our franchisees’ restaurants is also subject to licensing and regulation by alcoholic beverage control, health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state, county and/or municipality where the restaurant is located. We generally have not encountered any material difficulties or failures in obtaining and maintaining the required licenses and approvals that could impact the continuing operations of an existing restaurant, or delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant. Although we do not, at this time, anticipate any occurring in the future, we cannot assure you that we or our franchisees will not experience material difficulties or failures that could impact the continuing operations of an existing restaurant, or delay the opening of restaurants in the future. We are also subject to federal and state environmental regulations, and although these have not had a material negative effect on our operations, we cannot ensure that there will not be a material negative effect in the future. In particular, the U.S. and other foreign governments have increased focus on environmental matters 10 such as climate change, greenhouse gases and water conservation. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. These efforts could result in increased taxation or in future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation costs and utility costs, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance. Further, more stringent and varied requirements of local and state governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay, prevent or make cost prohibitive the continuing operations of an existing restaurant or the development of new restaurants in particular locations. Due to our international franchising, we are also subject to governmental regulations throughout the world that impact the way we do business with our international franchisees and joint venture partners. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. Our profitability may be adversely affected by increases in energy costs. Our success depends in part on our ability to absorb increases in utility costs, in particular electricity and natural gas. Various regions of the United States in which we operate multiple restaurants have experienced in the recent past significant increases in utility prices. These increases have affected costs and if they occur again, it would have possible adverse effects on our profitability to the extent not otherwise recoverable through price increases or alternative products, processes or cost reduction procedures. Further, higher prices for petroleum-based fuels may be passed on to us by vendors putting further pressure on margins as well as impact our guests discretionary funds and ability to patron our restaurants or guests’ menu choices. Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations. Successful strategic transactions are important to our future growth and profitability. We evaluate potential franchisees of new and existing restaurants and joint venture investments, as well as mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, as part of our strategic planning initiative. These transactions involve various inherent risks, including accurately assessing: • the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of franchise and joint venture partner candidates; 11 • our ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; and • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business or the completion of a divestiture. If we are unable to meet our business strategy plan, our profitability in the future may be adversely affected. Our ability to meet our business strategy plan is dependent upon, among other things, our and our franchisees’ ability to: • increase gross sales and operating profits at existing restaurants with food and beverage options and high quality service desired by our guests through successful implementation of strategic initiatives; • identify adequate sources of capital to fund and finance strategic initiatives, including remodeling of existing restaurants and new restaurant development; • identify available, suitable and economically viable locations for new restaurants; • obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals and liquor licenses) on a timely basis; • hire all necessary contractors and subcontractors, obtain construction materials at suitable prices, and maintain construction schedules; and • hire and train or retain qualified managers and team members for existing and new restaurants. The success of our franchisees is important to our future growth. We have significantly increased the percentage of restaurants owned and operated by our franchisees. While our franchise agreements are designed to maintain brand consistency, this increase reduces our direct day-to-day control over these restaurants and may expose us to risks not otherwise encountered if we maintained ownership and control of same. These risks include franchisee defaults in their obligations to us arising from financial or other difficulties encountered by them, such as payments to us or maintenance and improvements obligations; limitations on enforcement of franchise obligations due to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings; inability to participate in business strategy changes due to financial constraints; inability to meet rent obligations on leases on which we retain contingent liability; and failure to comply with food quality and preparation requirements subjecting us to litigation even when we are not legally liable for a franchisee’s actions or failure to act. Additionally our international franchisees and joint venture partners are subject to risks not encountered by our domestic franchisees. These risks include: • difficulties in achieving consistency of product quality and service as compared to U.S. operations; • changes to recipes and menu offerings to meet cultural norms; • challenges to obtain adequate and reliable supplies necessary to provide menu items and maintain food quality; and • differences, changes or uncertainties in economic, regulatory, legal, social and political conditions. Our sales volumes generally decrease in winter months in North America. Our sales volumes fluctuate seasonally and are generally higher in the summer months and lower in the winter months, which may cause seasonal fluctuations in our operating results. 12 Unfavorable publicity relating to one or more of our restaurants in a particular brand may taint public perception of the brand. Multi-unit restaurant businesses can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness or health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. In particular, since we depend heavily on the Chili’s brand for a majority of our revenues, unfavorable publicity relating to one or more Chili’s restaurants could have a material adverse effect on the Chili’s brand, and consequently on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The speed at which negative publicity (whether or not accurate) can be disseminated has increased dramatically with the capabilities of electronic communication, including social media. If we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to such reports, we may suffer declines in guest traffic which could materially impact our financial performance. Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial performance. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business. These matters typically involve claims by guests, team members and others regarding issues such as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry, as well as contract disputes and intellectual property infringement matters. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are dependent on information technology and any material failure of that technology or our ability to execute a comprehensive business continuity plan could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business. We rely on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems. Additionally, our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are handled primarily at our restaurant support center. We have disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans in place to address most events of a crisis nature, including tornadoes and other natural disasters, and back up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recover plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal communication and operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and exposure to administrative and other legal claims. We outsource certain business processes to third-party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs. Some business processes are currently outsourced to third parties. Such processes include gift card tracking and authorization, credit card authorization and processing, insurance claims processing, certain payroll processing, tax filings and other accounting processes. We also continue to evaluate our other business processes 13 to determine if additional outsourcing is a viable option to accomplish our goals. We make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or ability to accomplish our financial and management reporting. Continuing disruptions in the global financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and consumer spending patterns. The continuing disruptions to the global financial markets and continuing weak economic recovery has adversely impacted the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future. The disruptions in the financial markets also had an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economy, which has negatively impacted consumer spending patterns. There can be no assurance that various U.S. and world government present and future responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity or the availability of credit. Declines in the market price of our common stock or changes in other circumstances that may indicate an impairment of goodwill could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test in the second quarter of each fiscal year. Interim goodwill impairment tests are also required when events or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. It is possible that a change in circumstances such as the decline in the market price of our common stock or changes in consumer spending levels, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made in assessing the appropriate valuation of our goodwill, could negatively impact the valuation of our brands and create the potential for a non-cash charge to recognize impairment losses on some or all of our goodwill. If we were required to write down a portion of our goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Changes to estimates related to our property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets. We make certain estimates and projections with regards to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. The projection of future cash flows used in this analysis requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our guests and teammates could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and teammates. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels, as well as by certain third party contracts. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure it remains in compliance. 14 Identification of material weakness in internal control may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Those provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control. If such a material weakness is identified, it could indicate a lack of adequate controls to generate accurate financial statements. We routinely assess our internal controls, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting team members, especially in light of the increased demand for such individuals among publicly traded companies. Other risk factors may adversely affect our financial performance. Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements by affecting, among many things, pricing, consumer spending and consumer confidence, include, without limitation, changes in economic conditions and financial and credit markets (including rising interest rates and costs for consumers and reduced disposable income); credit availability; increased costs of food commodities; increased fuel costs and availability for our team members, customers and suppliers; increased health care costs; health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events; consumer perceptions of food safety; changes in consumer tastes and behaviors; governmental monetary policies; changes in demographic trends; availability of employees; terrorist acts; energy shortages and rolling blackouts; and weather (including, major hurricanes and regional winter storms) and other acts of God. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 