Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to a number of risks. Some of the risks that we face are endemic to the semiconductor industry, but the fact that certain risks are endemic to our industry does not lessen the significance of these risks. You should carefully consider all of the following risk factors and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our pending merger with Agere. On December 3, 2006, we entered into a merger agreement with Agere and we publicly announced the signing of the merger agreement on December 4, 2006. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, at the effective time of the proposed merger a wholly owned subsidiary of LSI will merge with and into Agere, with Agere continuing as the surviving corporation of the merger and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of LSI. Upon completion of the merger, each share of Agere common stock that is outstanding at the effective time of the merger will be converted into the right to receive 2.16 (the “Exchange Ratio”) shares of common stock of LSI. Each outstanding option to purchase Agere common stock, whether or not then vested or exercisable, shall be assumed by LSI and will be exercisable for a number of shares of LSI common stock at an exercise price adjusted to reflect the Exchange Ratio. The completion of the proposed merger is subject to various customary conditions, including (i) obtaining the approval of the LSI and Agere stockholders, (ii) absence of any applicable law prohibiting the merger, (iii) certain regulatory approvals, (iv) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of each party, and (v) performance in all material respects by each party of its obligations under the merger agreement. Our pending merger with Agere is described in detail in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that we have filed with the SEC in connection with the merger and in the joint proxy statement/prospectus included in such registration statement. You should read and consider the information in such registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus. As a result of the many risks that we face, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and stockholders might lose some or all of their investment. 16 Table of Contents Please consider the following risk factors when you read “forward-looking“ statements elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the information incorporated herein by reference. Forward-looking statements are statements that relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. Generally, the words, “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Relating to our Proposed Merger with Agere The issuance of shares of LSI common stock to Agere stockholders in the proposed merger with Agere will substantially reduce the percentage interests of LSI stockholders. If the proposed merger with Agere is completed, we expect that (i) approximately 365.8 million shares of LSI common stock would be issued to Agere stockholders, (ii) upon exercise of assumed equity awards, up to approximately 59.7 million additional shares will be issued to holders of assumed options and restricted stock units and (iii) an additional 23.6 million shares will be issuable upon conversion of Agere’s outstanding convertible notes. Based on the number of shares of LSI and Agere common stock outstanding on January 31, 2007, Agere stockholders before the merger with Agere will own, in the aggregate, approximately 48% of the fully diluted shares of LSI common stock immediately after the merger with Agere, excluding shares issuable upon conversion of Agere’s outstanding convertible notes. The issuance of shares of LSI common stock to Agere stockholders in the merger and to holders of assumed options and restricted stock units will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interest of current LSI stockholders in earnings, voting, liquidation value and book and market value. The proposed merger with Agere is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on LSI or Agere or could cause abandonment of the merger. Completion of the proposed merger with Agere is conditioned upon the making of certain filings with and notices to, and the receipt of consents, orders and approvals from, various local, state, federal and foreign governmental entities. Certain of these consents, orders and approvals will involve the relevant governmental entity’s consideration of the effect of the merger on competition in various jurisdictions. The reviewing authorities may not permit the proposed merger with Agere at all or may impose restrictions or conditions on the merger that may seriously harm the combined company if the merger is completed. These conditions could include a complete or partial license, divestiture, spin-off or the holding separate of assets or businesses. Either LSI or Agere may refuse to complete the merger if restrictions or conditions are required by governmental authorities that would materially adversely impact the combined company’s results of operations or the benefits anticipated to be derived by the combined company. Any delay in the completion of the merger could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the transaction. LSI and Agere also may agree to restrictions or conditions imposed by antitrust authorities in order to obtain regulatory approval, and these restrictions or conditions could harm the combined company’s operations. No additional stockholder approvals are expected to be required for any decision by LSI or Agere, after the proposed annual meeting of Agere stockholders and the proposed special meeting of LSI stockholders, to agree to any terms and conditions necessary to resolve any regulatory objections to the merger. In addition, during or after the statutory waiting periods, and even after completion of the proposed merger with Agere, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. In addition, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. We may not prevail, or may incur significant costs, in defending or settling any action under antitrust laws. 17 Table of Contents The proposed merger with Agere may not be completed, and any delay in completing the proposed merger with Agere may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the merger. In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals, the proposed merger with Agere is subject to a number of other conditions beyond the control of LSI and Agere that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger may significantly reduce the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if we successfully complete the merger within the expected timeframe and integrate our businesses. Customer uncertainties related to the proposed merger with Agere could adversely affect our business, revenues and gross margins. In response to the announcement of the proposed merger with Agere or due to ongoing uncertainty about the merger, customers of LSI or Agere may delay or defer purchasing decisions or elect to switch to other suppliers. In particular, prospective customers could be reluctant to purchase the products and services of LSI, Agere or the combined company due to uncertainty about the direction of the combined company’s offerings and willingness to support existing products. To the extent that the merger creates uncertainty among those persons and organizations contemplating purchases such that one large customer, or a significant group of smaller customers, delays, defers or changes purchases in connection with the planned merger, the revenues of LSI, Agere or the combined company would be adversely affected. Customer assurances may be made by LSI and Agere to address their customers’ uncertainty about the direction of the combined company’s product and related support offerings, which may result in additional obligations of LSI, Agere or the combined company. In addition, the announcement of the merger may cause prospective licensees of Agere’s intellectual property to delay or defer licensing decisions, resulting in a decline in Agere’s licensing revenues, which could have a significant impact on the profitability of Agere and the combined company. Quarterly revenues and net earnings of LSI, Agere or the combined company could be substantially below expectations of market analysts and a decline in the companies’ respective stock prices could result. Provisions of the merger agreement may deter alternative business combinations and could negatively affect our stock price if the merger agreement is terminated in certain circumstances. The merger agreement prohibits LSI and Agere from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or facilitating certain alternative acquisition proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the merger agreement. The merger agreement also provides for the payment by LSI or Agere of a termination fee of $120 million if the merger agreement is terminated in certain circumstances in connection with a competing third-party acquisition proposal for one of the companies. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to our stockholders. The obligation to pay the termination fee also may discourage a third party from pursuing an alternative acquisition proposal. If the merger is terminated and we determine to seek another business combination, we can not assure you that we will be able to negotiate a transaction with another company on terms comparable to the terms of the merger, or that we will avoid incurring fees associated with the termination of the merger agreement. In the event the merger is terminated by LSI or Agere in circumstances that obligate either party to pay the termination fee to the other party, including where either party terminates the merger agreement because the other party’s board of directors withdraws its support of the merger, our stock price may decline. If the proposed merger with Agere is not completed, we will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect our results of operations and the market price of our common stock. If the proposed merger with Agere is not completed, the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market prices of our common stock reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed. In addition, we have incurred and will incur substantial costs in connection with the proposed merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants and our financial advisor. In addition, we have 18 Table of Contents diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the proposed merger and we are subject to restrictions contained in the merger agreement on the conduct of our business. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. Also, if the merger is not completed under certain circumstances specified in the merger agreement, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $120 million. In addition, if the proposed merger with Agere is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our suppliers, customers and employees. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to our Business and Risk Factors Relating to the Business of the Combined Company if our Proposed Merger with Agere is completed We may fail to realize the benefits expected from the proposed merger with Agere, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The proposed merger involves the integration of LSI and Agere, two companies that have previously operated independently. We entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that, among other things, the proposed merger would enable us to consolidate support functions, leverage our research and development, patents and services across a larger base, and integrate our workforces to create opportunities to achieve cost savings and to become a stronger and more competitive company. Although we expect significant benefits to result from the proposed merger, there can be no assurance that the combined company will actually realize these or any other anticipated benefits of the merger. The value of our common stock following completion of the proposed merger may be affected by the ability of the combined company to achieve the benefits expected to result from the merger. LSI and Agere currently operate in 20 countries, with a combined workforce of approximately 9,100 employees. Achieving the benefits of the merger will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination and integration of global business enterprises of the size and scope of LSI and Agere. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • Demonstrating to customers of LSI and Agere that the merger will not result in adverse changes to the ability of the combined company to address the needs of customers or the loss of attention or business focus; • Coordinating and integrating independent research and development teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs; • Combining product offerings; • Consolidating and integrating corporate, information technology, finance, and administrative infrastructures; • Coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the capabilities of the combined company and the direction of product development; and • Minimizing the diversion of management attention from important business objectives. If the combined company does not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating businesses of the size and complexity of LSI and Agere, then the combined company may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger and our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, goodwill and other intangible assets could be determined to be impaired, which could adversely affect our financial results of operations. The successful integration of the LSI and Agere businesses is likely to require significant management attention both before and after the completion of the proposed merger, and may divert the attention of our management from business and operational issues. 19 Table of Contents We must attract and retain key employees in a highly competitive environment; uncertainties associated with the proposed merger with Agere may cause a loss of employees and may otherwise materially adversely affect the businesses of LSI and Agere, and the future business and operations of the combined company. Our success depends in part upon our ability to retain key employees. In some of the fields in which we operate, there are only a limited number of people in the job market who possess the requisite skills. We have experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified engineers in parts of our business. Current and prospective employees of LSI and Agere may experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles with the combined company following the proposed merger. This may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the proposed merger. The loss of services of any key personnel or the inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely matter, to sell products to customers or to manage our business effectively. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical, and our operating results may fluctuate. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor device and storage systems industries. These industries are characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In the past, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, excess manufacturing capacity worldwide, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. Even if demand for our products remains constant, the availability of additional excess production capacity in the semiconductor industry may create competitive pressures that can degrade pricing levels and reduce our revenues. General economic weakness and geopolitical factors may harm our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations are, and the results of operations of the combined company after the proposed merger with Agere will be, dependent to a large extent upon the global economy. Geopolitical factors such as terrorist activities, armed conflict or global health conditions that adversely affect the global economy may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are dependent upon a limited number of customers. A limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of our revenues. For LSI’s most recent fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, International Business Machines Corporation and Seagate Technology represented approximately 19% and 12%, respectively, of LSI’s consolidated revenues. If any of our key customers were to decide to significantly reduce or cancel its existing business, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because many of our products have long product design and development cycles, it may be difficult for us to replace key customers who reduce or cancel existing business. In addition, we may not win new product designs from major existing customers, major customers may make significant changes in scheduled deliveries, or there may be declines in the prices of products sold to these customers, and our business may be adversely affected if any of these events were to occur. We depend upon independent foundry subcontractors to manufacture our semiconductor products; accordingly, any failure to secure and maintain sufficient foundry capacity could materially and adversely affect our business. Since selling our Gresham, Oregon semiconductor manufacturing facility in May 2006, we have relied entirely on independent foundry subcontractors to manufacture our semiconductor products. Because we rely on third party manufacturing relationships, we face the following risks: • a manufacturer may be unwilling to devote adequate capacity to production of our products or may be unable to produce our products; 20 Table of Contents • a manufacturer may not be able to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products; • manufacturing costs may be higher than planned; • product reliability may decline; • a manufacturer may not be able to maintain continuing relationships with our suppliers; and • we may have reduced control over delivery schedules, quality, manufacturing yields and costs of products. If any of these risks were to be realized, we could experience an interruption in supply or an increase in costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The ability of an independent foundry subcontractor to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Availability of foundry capacity has in the recent past been reduced from time to time due to strong demand. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, other than a wafer supply agreement we have with ON Semiconductor, we do not have long-term volume purchase agreements or significant guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our third-party foundry suppliers. Foundry capacity may not be available when needed at reasonable prices. We place orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that other foundry customers that are larger and better financed than us, or that have long-term agreements with the foundry suppliers, may induce foundries to reallocate capacity to them. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Also, our foundry suppliers migrate capacity to newer, state-of-the-art manufacturing processes on a regular basis, which may create capacity shortages for products designed to be manufactured on older processes. In addition, the occurrence of a public health emergency or natural disaster could further affect the production capabilities of our manufacturers by resulting in quarantines or closures. If any of our foundry suppliers experiences a shortage in capacity, suffers any damage to its facilities due to earthquakes or other natural disasters, experiences power outages, encounters financial difficulties or experiences any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may need to qualify an alternative foundry supplier, which may require several months. As a result of all of these factors and risks, we can not provide any assurances that any foundries will be able to produce integrated circuits with acceptable manufacturing yields, or that foundries will be able to deliver enough semiconductor devices to us on a timely basis, or at reasonable prices. We operate in intensely competitive markets. Each of LSI and Agere derive significant revenue from the sale of integrated circuits, and LSI also operates in the Storage Systems segment. These industry segments are intensely competitive and competition is expected to increase as existing competitors enhance their product offerings and as new participants enter the market. The competitors of LSI and Agere include many large domestic and foreign companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and management resources than LSI or Agere. Several major diversified electronics companies offer custom solutions and/or other standard products that are competitive with the products of LSI and Agere. Other competitors are specialized, rapidly growing companies that sell products into the same markets that LSI or Agere target or that the combined company will target. Some of our customers may also design and manufacture products that will compete with our products. We can not provide any assurances that the price and performance of our products will be superior relative to the products of our competitors. Increased competition may negatively affect our pricing, margins and revenues. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. Competitors may be in a stronger position than us to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. They may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to gain market share. In addition, competitors may sell commercial quantities of products before we do so, establishing market share and creating a market position that we may not be able to overcome once we introduce similar products in commercial quantities. 21 Table of Contents Our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change. The industry segments in which we currently operate, and in which the combined company will operate, are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, limited ability to accurately forecast future customer orders, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, short product cycles and evolving industry standards. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to improve on existing technologies and to develop and implement new ones, as well as upon our ability to adopt and implement emerging industry standards in a timely manner and to adapt products and processes to technological changes. If we are not able to successfully implement new process technologies or to achieve volume production of new products at acceptable yields, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development programs in order to develop new and enhanced products and technologies, or if we focus on technologies that do not become widely adopted, new technologies could render our current and planned products obsolete, resulting in the need to change the focus of our research and development and product strategies and disrupting our business significantly. In addition, the emergence of markets for integrated circuits may be affected by factors beyond our control. In particular, products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards. Our customers may not adopt or continue to follow these standards, which would make our products less desirable to customers, and could negatively affect sales. Also, competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers, which could reduce sales and require us to make significant expenditures to develop new products. To the extent that we are not able to effectively and expeditiously adapt to new standards, our business may be negatively affected. Order or shipment cancellations or deferrals could cause our revenue to decline or fluctuate. We sell, and expect to continue to sell, a significant amount of products pursuant to purchase orders that customers may cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If a customer cancels or defers product shipments or refuses to accept shipped products, we may incur unanticipated reductions or delays in revenue. If a customer does not pay for products in a timely manner, we could incur significant charges against income, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We design and develop highly complex products that require significant investments. Our products are highly complex and significant time and expense are expected to be associated with the design, development and manufacture of our products. We expect to incur substantial research and development costs to confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of our products, which in the end may not be successful. Our products may contain defects. Our products may contain undetected defects, errors or failures. These products can only be fully tested when deployed in commercial applications and other equipment. Consequently, customers may discover errors after the products have been deployed. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures could result in: • cancellation of orders; • product returns, repairs or replacements; • diversion of our resources; • legal actions by customers or customers’ end users; • increased insurance costs; and • other losses to us or to customers or end users. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of products and loss of sales, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. As our products become even more complex in the future, this risk may intensify over time and may result in increased expenses. 22 Table of Contents Our manufacturing facilities have high fixed costs and involve highly complex and precise processes. LSI has a storage systems manufacturing facility in Wichita, Kansas. If our proposed merger with Agere is completed, we will acquire Agere’s assembly and test facilities and its 51% equity interest in Silicon Manufacturing Partners, a fabrication facility joint venture with Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd. Operations at any of these facilities may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, supply shortages, fire, earthquake, tornado, floods or other natural disasters, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In addition, if we do not experience adequate utilization of, or adequate yields at, our manufacturing facilities, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We confront challenges in the manufacturing process that require us to: maintain a competitive manufacturing cost structure; exercise stringent quality control measures to obtain high yields; effectively manage subcontractors engaged in the wafer fabrication, test and assembly of products; and update equipment and facilities as required for leading edge production capabilities. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex and precise processes, requiring production in a clean and tightly controlled environment. In addition, the manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundry suppliers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, such foundries have, from time to time, experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Poor yields from our foundry suppliers could result in product shortages or delays in product shipments, which could seriously harm relationships with our customers and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to qualify our products or our suppliers’ manufacturing lines may adversely affect our results of operations. Some customers will not purchase any products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, until they qualify the manufacturing line for the product. We may not always be able to satisfy the qualification requirements of these customers. Delays in qualification may cause a customer to discontinue use of non-qualified products and result in a significant loss of revenue. We depend upon third-party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test certain products. Third-party subcontractors located in Asia assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test certain products of LSI. Although Agere owns and operates its own semiconductor assembly and test facilities, even if the proposed merger with Agere is consummated, the combined company will continue to depend upon third-party subcontractors to assemble and test some of the combined company’s semiconductor products or to perform other services for the combined company. To the extent that we rely upon third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we will not be able to control directly product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. In addition, if these third-party subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for products in a timely manner, we may experience product shortages or delays in product shipments, which could materially and adversely affect customer relationships and results of operations. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for such components. A widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our manufacturing, assembly and test, design or other operations. A widespread outbreak of an illness such as avian influenza, or bird flu, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, could adversely affect our operations as well as demand from customers. A number of countries in the 23 Table of Contents Asia/Pacific region have experienced outbreaks of bird flu and/or SARS. As a result of such an outbreak, businesses can be shut down temporarily and individuals can become ill or quarantined. After the proposed merger with Agere, we will have operations in Singapore, Thailand and China, countries where outbreaks of bird flu and/or SARS have occurred. If operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for manufacturing or other services and alternate sources can be more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to customers, which would affect results of operations. In addition, a curtailment of design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. If customers’ businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases, which could adversely affect results of operations. We procure parts and raw materials from a limited number of domestic and foreign sources. We do not maintain an extensive inventory of parts and materials for manufacturing storage systems at our Wichita, Kansas facility. We purchase, and expect that we will continue to purchase, a portion of our requirements for parts and raw materials from a limited number of sources, primarily from suppliers in Japan and their U.S. subsidiaries, and obtain other material inputs on a local basis. If we have difficulty in obtaining parts or materials in the future from our existing suppliers, alternative suppliers may not be available, or suppliers may not provide parts and materials in a timely manner or on favorable terms. As a result, we may be adversely affected by delays in product shipments. If we cannot obtain adequate materials for manufacture of our products, or if such materials are not available at reasonable prices, there could be a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. If our new product development and expansion efforts are not successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected. LSI is currently developing, and we expect that we will continue to develop, products in new areas and we may seek to expand into additional areas in the future. Our efforts to develop products and expand into new areas may not result in sales that are sufficient to recoup our investment, and we may experience higher costs than anticipated. For example, we may not be able to manufacture products at a competitive cost, we may need to rely on new suppliers or we may find that our development efforts are more costly or time consuming than anticipated. Development of new products often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new or changing technologies and a substantial capital commitment. There can be no assurance that any products that we select for investment of our financial and engineering resources will be developed or acquired in a timely manner or will enjoy market acceptance. In addition, our products may support protocols that are not widely adopted and we may have difficulties entering markets where competitors have strong market positions. We may engage in acquisitions and alliances giving rise to financial and technological risks. We may explore strategic acquisitions that build upon or expand our library of intellectual property, human capital and engineering talent, and increase our ability to fully address the needs of our customers. For example, in addition to the proposed merger with Agere, in November 2006 we acquired StoreAge Networking Technologies Ltd., a privately held software company based in Nesher, Israel, for approximately $50 million in cash. Also in November 2006, we acquired Metta Technology, a privately held company based in Pune, India that develops multimedia system-on-chip technology and related software for consumer electronics products. In February 2007, we entered into an agreement to acquire SiliconStor, a privately held company that provides silicon solutions for enterprise storage networks. SiliconStor is headquartered in Fremont, California and has approximately 30 employees. At the closing of the acquisition, we expect to pay approximately $55 million in cash for SiliconStor. The closing of the acquisition is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2007. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies bear inherent risks. No assurance can be given that our previous acquisitions or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure to manage growth effectively or to integrate acquisitions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may make investments in companies, products and technologies through strategic alliances and otherwise. Investment 24 Table of Contents activities often involve risks, including the need for timely access to needed capital for investments and to invest in companies and technologies that will contribute to the growth of our business. The semiconductor industry is prone to intellectual property litigation. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we are frequently involved in disputes regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have in the past received, and we may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting that certain of our products, processes or technologies infringe upon their patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights, and we may also receive claims of potential infringement if we attempt to license intellectual property to others. Defending these claims may be costly and time consuming, and may divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. We may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms. Resolution of whether any of our products or intellectual property has infringed upon valid rights held by others could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position and may require material changes in production processes and products. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We will primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. While we hold a significant number of patents, there can be no assurances that any additional patents will be issued. Even if new patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of LSI or Agere’s existing patents, and any future patents issued to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. LSI and Agere may not have, and in the future we may not have, foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to its U.S. patents and applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, competitors may be able to offer products similar to our products. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Some or all of LSI’s and Agere’s patents have in the past been licensed and likely will in the future be licensed to certain of our competitors through cross-license agreements. A decline in the revenue that we expect to derive from the licensing of intellectual property could have a significant impact on net income. Agere currently generates significant revenue from, and if we complete the proposed merger with Agere, we expect to generate revenue from, the licensing of intellectual property. The revenue generated from the licensing of Agere’s intellectual property has a high gross margin compared to the revenue generated from the sale of other products currently sold by Agere, and a decline in this licensing revenue could have a significant impact on the profitability of the combined company. The combined company’s licensing revenue is expected to come from a limited number of transactions and the failure to complete one or more transactions in a quarter could have a material adverse impact on revenue and profitability. We conduct a significant amount of activity outside of the United States, and are exposed to legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. We derive, and it is expected that we will continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of products shipped to locations outside of the United States. In addition, we manufacture, and it is expected that we will continue to manufacture, a significant portion of our products outside of the United States and we are dependent upon non-U.S. suppliers for many parts and services. We may also pursue growth opportunities in sales, design and 25 Table of Contents manufacturing outside of the United States. Operations outside of the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs that could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, including: • political, social and economic instability; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • natural disasters and public health emergencies; • nationalization of businesses and blocking of cash flows; • trade and travel restrictions; • imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • foreign technical standards; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • international trade disputes; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. We may rely on the capital markets and/or bank markets to provide financing. We may rely on the capital markets and/or bank markets to provide financing for strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate needs. As of December 31, 2006, LSI had approximately $350 million of convertible notes outstanding. We may need to seek additional equity financing or debt financing from time to time. Historically, we have been able to access the capital markets and the bank markets when deemed appropriate, but we may not be able to access these markets in the future on acceptable terms. The availability of capital in these markets may be affected by several factors, including geopolitical risk, the interest rate environment and the condition of the economy as a whole. Moreover, any future equity or equity-linked financing may dilute the equity ownership of existing shareholders. In addition, our operating performance, capital structure and expected future performance will affect our ability to raise capital. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and expected future cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our needs in the foreseeable future. We utilize indirect channels of distribution over which we will have limited control. Financial results could be adversely affected if our relationships with resellers or distributors were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of these resellers or distributors were to decline. In addition, as our business grows, there may be an increased reliance on indirect channels of distribution. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding these indirect channels of distribution. This could result in the loss of certain sales opportunities. Furthermore, the partial reliance on indirect channels of distribution may reduce visibility with respect to future business, thereby making it more difficult to accurately forecast orders. We may not be able to collect all of our accounts receivable from customers. A majority of our trade receivables have been, and it is expected that a majority of our trade receivables will continue to be, derived from sales of products to large multinational computer, communication, networking, storage and consumer electronics manufacturers. We can not provide any assurances that our accounts receivable balances will be paid on time or at all. 26 Table of Contents The price of our securities may be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of quarterly variations in results, the published expectations of analysts and announcements by us and our competitors, and our stock is likely to be subject to similar volatility in the future. Many of the markets from which we expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenues are highly cyclical, and we may experience declines in our revenue that are primarily related to industry conditions in general and not to our business or prospects. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The price of our securities may also be affected by general global, economic and market conditions. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these and other factors may have on the price of the our securities in the future, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in our stock price during any given period of time. Fluctuations in our stock price may also affect the price of outstanding convertible securities of Agere and LSI, and the likelihood of the convertible securities being converted into cash or equity. If our stock price is below the conversion price of the Agere or LSI convertible notes on the date of maturity, they may not convert into equity and we may be required to redeem the outstanding convertible securities for cash. However, in the event they do not convert into equity, we believe that our cash position and expected future operating cash flows will be adequate to meet these obligations as they mature. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect reported results of operations. Financial accounting standards in the United States are constantly under review and may be changed from time to time. We would be required to apply these changes if adopted. Once implemented, these changes could result in material fluctuations in our results of operations and/or the way in which such results of operations are reported. For example, on January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123-R. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, we began recognizing compensation expense for all share-based awards granted on or after January 1, 2006, plus unvested awards granted prior to January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 123-R had a significant impact on our operating results as share-based compensation expense is charged directly against reported earnings. Numerous judgments and estimates are involved in the calculation of this expense and changes to those estimates or different judgments could have a significant effect on our reported earnings. Similarly, we are subject to taxation in the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions. Rates of taxation, definitions of income, exclusions from income, and other tax policies are subject to change over time. Changes in tax laws in a jurisdiction in which we have reporting obligations could have a material impact on our results of operations. We face uncertainties related to the effectiveness of internal controls. Public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will achieve its stated goal under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Although our management has determined, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal controls were effective as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, there can be no assurance that our internal control systems and procedures, or the integration of LSI and Agere and their respective internal control systems and procedures, will not result in or lead to a future material weakness in our internal 27 Table of Contents controls, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Internal control deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge. Over time we may identify and correct deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls and, where and when appropriate, report on the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses. However, the internal control procedures can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that deficiencies or weaknesses are identified. Deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified by us could emerge and the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses could have a material impact on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 