ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, results, and financial condition. Our operating results can fluctuate dramatically. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future. For example, we recorded net losses of $1,045.2 million in fiscal 2009, net income of $34.2 million in fiscal 2008 and net losses of $7.6 million in fiscal 2007, respectively. Fluctuations in operating results can result from a wide variety of factors, including: · Global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations; · The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry and industry-wide wafer processing capacity; · Changes in the demand for and mix of products sold and in the markets we and our customers serve; · Competitive pricing pressures; · The success and timing of new product and process technology announcements and introductions from us or our competitors; · Potential loss of market share among a concentrated group of customers; · Difficulty in attracting and retaining key personnel; · Difficulty in predicting customer product requirements; · Production difficulties and interruptions caused by our complex manufacturing and logistics operations; · Difficulty in managing fixed costs of our manufacturing capability in the face of changes in demand; · Reduced control over our manufacturing and product delivery as a result of our increasing reliance on subcontractors, foundry and other manufacturing services; · Costs and other issues relating to future acquisitions; · Availability and costs of raw materials from a limited number of suppliers; · Political and economic conditions in various geographic areas; · Costs associated with other events, such as intellectual property disputes or other litigation; and · Legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation. Global Market and Economic Conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Unprecedented adverse changes in global financial markets and rapidly deteriorating business conditions in the world’s developed economies has resulted in tighter credit conditions and a global economic contraction through the end of fiscal 2009. For the period ended March 29, 2009, continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation and deflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a declining real estate market in the U.S. and added concerns fueled by the federal government interventions in the U.S. financial and credit markets have contributed to instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, weakened demand and diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels and a significant economic recession. As a result of these market and business conditions, the cost and availability of capital and credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely borrow and access the capital and credit markets to meet liquidity needs, and resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Poor credit market conditions and the contraction of global economic activity may have an adverse effect on the financial condition of our customers. Should one or more of our major customers become financially constrained, or insolvent, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. The economic slowdown may lead to reduced customer spending for semiconductors and weakened demand for our products which is likely to have a negative impact on revenue, gross profit and results of operations. Reduced customer spending and weakened demand may drive the semiconductor industry to reduce product pricing, which would also have a negative impact on revenue, gross profit and results of operations. In addition, the semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, deterioration in general economic conditions and we cannot accurately predict how severe and prolonged any downturn might be. 11 Table of Contents The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry exacerbates the volatility of our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers, but also related to declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could significantly impact our business from one period to the next relative to demand and resulting selling price declines. In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced periods of increased demand, during which we may experience internal and external manufacturing constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Demand for our products depends primarily on demand in the communications, personal computer (PC), and consumer markets which can be significantly impacted by concerns over macroeconomic issues. Our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, PC, and consumer markets. Our strategy and resources will be directed at the development, production and marketing of products for these markets. The markets for our products will depend on continued and growing demand for communications equipment, PCs and consumer electronics. These end-user markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our business and could be greater in periods of economic uncertainty and contraction. To the extent demand for our products or markets for our products do not grow, our business could be adversely affected. We build most of our products based on estimated demand forecasts. Demand for our products can change rapidly and without advance notice. Demand can also be affected by changes in our customers’ levels of inventory and differences in the timing and pattern of orders from their end customers. A large percentage of our revenue in the Asia Pacific region is recognized upon shipment to our distributors. Consequently, we have less visibility over both inventory levels at our distributors and end customer demand for our products. Further, the distributors have assumed more risk associated with changes in end demand for our products. Accordingly, significant changes in end demand in the semiconductor business in general, or for our products in particular, may be difficult for us to detect or otherwise measure, which could cause us to incorrectly forecast end-market demand for our products. If we are not able to accurately forecast end demand for our products, we may be left with large amounts of unsold products, may not be able to fill all actual orders, and may not be able to efficiently utilize our existing manufacturing capacity or make optimal investment and other business decisions. As a result, we may end up with excess and obsolete inventory or we may be unable to meet customer short-term demands, either of which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. A portion of our manufacturing capability is relatively fixed in nature. Although we have reduced our manufacturing cost structure substantially over the past several years, a portion of our manufacturing capability is relatively fixed in nature. Large and rapid swings in demand for our products can make it difficult to efficiently utilize this capacity on a consistent basis. Significant reductions in demand for our products could result in material under utilization of our manufacturing facilities while sudden increases in demand for our products could leave us short of capacity and unable to capitalize on incremental revenue opportunities. These swings in demand and the resulting under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity or inability to procure sufficient capacity to meet end customer demand for our products could cause material fluctuations in, and could materially and adversely affect, the revenue and gross margins we report. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, be difficult to integrate and adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions are commonplace in the semiconductor industry and we have and may continue to acquire businesses or technologies. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such acquisitions could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, dilutive or potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. Intellectual property claims could adversely affect our business and operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have been involved in patent litigation in the past, which adversely affected our operating results. Although we have obtained patent licenses from certain semiconductor manufacturers, we do not have licenses from a number of semiconductor manufacturers that have broad patent portfolios. Claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights have been asserted against us in the past and could be asserted against us in the future. These claims could result in our having to discontinue the use of certain processes; license certain technologies; cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products; incur significant litigation costs and damages; and develop non-infringing technology. We might not be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms or to develop non-infringing technology. Further, the failure to renew or renegotiate existing licenses on favorable terms, or the inability to obtain a key license, could materially and adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents The costs associated with the legal proceedings in which we are involved can be substantial, specific costs are unpredictable and not completely within our control, and unexpected increases in litigation costs could adversely affect our operating results. We are currently involved in legal proceedings, as described below in Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings." The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable and are not completely within our control. While we do our best to forecast and control such costs, the costs may be materially more than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, we may become involved in unexpected litigation with additional companies at any time, which would increase our aggregate litigation costs and could adversely affect our operating results. We are not able to predict the outcome of any of our legal actions and an adverse decision in any of our legal actions could significantly harm our business and financial performance. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers for a significant part of our revenues. A large portion of our revenues depends on sales to a limited number of customers. If these relationships were to diminish, or if these customers were to develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor’s solution instead of buying our products, our results could be adversely affected. For example, any diminished relationship with one or more of our key customers could adversely affect our results. While we historically have made relatively few sales to Cisco directly, when all channels of distribution are considered, including sales of product to EMS customers, we estimate that end-customer sales to Cisco represented approximately 10 - 20% of our annual revenues. Many of our end-customer OEMs have outsourced their manufacturing to a concentrated group of global EMSs and original design manufacturers (ODMs) who then buy product directly from us or from our distributors on behalf of the OEM. These EMSs and ODMs have achieved greater autonomy in the design win, product qualification and product purchasing decisions, especially for commodity products. Competition for the business of these EMSs and ODMs is intense and there is no assurance we can remain competitive and retain our existing market share with these customers. If these companies were to allocate a higher share of commodity or second-source business to our competitors instead of buying our products, our results would be adversely affected. Furthermore, as EMSs and ODMs have represented a growing percentage of our overall business, our concentration of credit and other business risks with these customers has increased. Competition among global EMSs and ODMs is intense as they operate on extremely thin margins. If any one or more of these global EMSs or ODMs were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business would be adversely impacted as well. Finally, we utilize a relatively small number of global and regional distributors around the world, who buy product directly from us on behalf of their customers. For example, one family of distributors, Maxtek and its affiliates, represented approximately 21% of our revenues for fiscal 2009 and represented approximately 21% of our gross accounts receivable as of March 29, 2009. If our business relationships were to diminish or any of these global distributors were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business could be adversely impacted. Because we continue to be dependent upon continued revenue from a small group of OEM end customers, global and regional distributors, any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from or loss of these or other major customers could cause our sales to decline significantly, and we may not be able to reduce the accompanying expenses at the same rate. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. Over the past several years, we have made several acquisitions. As a result of these acquisitions, we had over $1 billion of goodwill and over $204 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet at the beginning of fiscal 2009. As a result of our interim impairment analysis in Q3 2009 and annual impairment analysis in Q4 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $946.3 million and acquisition-related intangible asset impairment charge of $79.4 million in fiscal 2009. In determining fair value, we consider various factors including our market capitalization, forecasted revenue and costs, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, determination of appropriate market comparables and expected periods over which our assets will be utilized and other variables. If our assumptions regarding forecasted cash flow, revenue and margin growth rates of certain long-lived asset groups and reporting units are not achieved, it is reasonably possible that an impairment review may be triggered for the remaining balance of goodwill and long-lived assets prior to the next annual review in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, which could result in material charges that could impact our operating results and financial position. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in other companies, both public and private. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. In addition, we evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. Our results are dependent on the success of new products. The markets we serve are characterized by competition, rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and continuous erosion of average selling prices. Consequently, our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to continually develop new products using the latest and most cost-effective technologies, introduce our products in commercial quantities to the marketplace ahead of the 13 Table of Contents competition and have our products selected for inclusion in leading system manufacturers’ products. In addition, the development of new products will continue to require significant R&D expenditures. If we are unable to successfully develop, produce and market new products in a timely manner, have our products available in commercial quantities ahead of competitive products or have our products selected for inclusion in products of systems manufacturers and sell them at gross margins comparable to or better than our current products, our future results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, our future revenue growth is also partially dependent on our ability to penetrate new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors are already entrenched. Even if we are able to develop, produce and successfully market new products in a timely manner, such new products may not achieve market acceptance. We are dependent on key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees could adversely affect our business. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to successfully compete with other technology firms in attracting and retaining specialized technical and management personnel. If we are unable to identify, hire and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, our business could be harmed. Our product manufacturing operations are complex and subject to interruption. From time to time, we have experienced production difficulties, including lower manufacturing yields or products that do not meet our or our customers' specifications, which has resulted in delivery delays, quality problems and lost revenue opportunities. While delivery delays have been infrequent and generally short in duration, we could experience manufacturing problems, capacity constraints and/or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, the complexity of our manufacturing processes, changes to our process technologies (including transfers to other facilities and die size reduction efforts), and difficulties in ramping production and installing new equipment at our facilities. In addition, any significant quality problems could damage our reputation with our customers and could take focus away from the development of new and enhanced products. These could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from products manufactured at facilities which are exposed to the risk of natural disasters. If we were unable to use our facilities or those of our subcontractors and third party foundries as a result of a natural disaster or otherwise, our operations would be materially adversely affected. While we maintain certain levels of insurance against selected risks of business interruption, not all risks can be insured at a reasonable cost. For example, we do not insure our facilities for earthquake damage due to the costs involved. Even if we have purchased insurance, the adverse impact on our business, including both costs and lost revenue opportunities, could greatly exceed the amounts, if any, that we might recover from our insurers. We are dependent upon electric power and water provided by public utilities where we operate our manufacturing facilities. We maintain limited backup generating capability, but the amount of electric power that we can generate on our own is insufficient to fully operate these facilities, and prolonged power interruptions and restrictions on our access to water could have a significant adverse impact on our business. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business. We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, communication lines and networking equipment. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. While we believe that our information systems are appropriately controlled and that we have processes in place to adequately manage these risks, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. We are reliant upon subcontractors and third-party foundries. Beginning in fiscal 2008, we do not perform assembly services in-house and are now totally dependent on subcontractors for assembly operations. We are also dependent on third-party outside foundries for the manufacture of a portion of our silicon wafers. Our increased reliance on subcontractors and third-party foundries for our current products increases certain risks because we will have less control over manufacturing quality and delivery schedules, maintenance of sufficient capacity to meet our orders and generally, maintaining the manufacturing processes we require. We expect our use of subcontractors and third-party foundries to continue to increase. Due to production lead times and potential capacity constraints, any failure on our part to adequately forecast the mix of product demand and resulting foundry and subcontractor requirements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot be certain that these foundries and subcontractors will continue to manufacture, assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms, or at all, and it may be difficult for us to find alternatives in a timely and cost-effective manner if they do not do so. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate raw materials on a timely basis. The number of suppliers of certain raw materials, such as silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals and certain chemicals and gases needed for our products, is very limited. In addition, certain packages for our products require long lead times and are available from only a few suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times or limited supply to us due to capacity constraints. Our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials, or if foundry or assembly subcontractor capacity was not available, or was only available at uncompetitive prices. We are subject to a variety of environmental and other regulations related to hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes. Any failure by us to adequately control the use or discharge of hazardous materials under present or future regulations could subject us to substantial costs or liabilities or cause our manufacturing operations to be suspended. We have limited experience with government contracting, which entails differentiated business risks. Currently, certain of our subsidiaries derive revenue from contracts and subcontracts with agencies of, or prime contractors to, the U.S. government, including U.S. military agencies. Although former employees of ICS who work for us have experience contracting with agencies of the U.S. government, historically we have not contracted with agencies of the U.S. government. As a company engaged, in part, in supplying defense-related equipment to U.S. government agencies, we are subject to certain business risks that are particular to companies that contract with U.S. government agencies. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government or related contractors to unilaterally: · Terminate contracts at its convenience; · Terminate, modify or reduce the value of existing contracts, if budgetary constraints or needs change; · Cancel multi-year contracts and related orders, if funds become unavailable; · Adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits performed by U.S. government agencies; · Control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; · Require that the company continue to supply products despite the expiration of a contract under certain circumstances; · Require that the company fill certain types of rated orders for the U.S. government prior to filling any orders for other customers; and · Suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of any alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. In addition, because we have defense industry contracts with respect to products that are sold both within and outside of the United States, we are subject to the following additional risks in connection with government contracts: · The need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties, delays and/or cost overruns; · The difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term fixed price contracts; and · The need to transfer and obtain security clearances and export licenses, as appropriate. Tax benefits we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. As a result of our international manufacturing operations, a significant portion of our worldwide profits are in jurisdictions outside the United States, including Bermuda, Singapore and Malaysia which offer significant reductions in tax rates. These lower tax rates allow us to record a relatively low tax expense on a worldwide basis. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on our income and capital gains. If the Internal Revenue Service were to change the law regarding deferral of manufacturing profits, this would have a significant impact to our financial results. In addition, the Economic Development Board of Singapore granted Pioneer Status to our wholly-owned subsidiary in Singapore in 1997. Initially, this tax exemption was to expire after ten years, but the Economic Development Board in January 2008 agreed to extend the term to twelve years. As a result, a significant portion of the income we earn in Singapore during this period will be exempt from the Singapore income tax. We are required to meet several requirements as to investment, headcount and activities in Singapore to retain this status. If our Pioneer Status is terminated early because we do not continue to meet these requirements, or for other reasons beyond our control, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Also, in Malaysia, we have been granted a tax holiday related to certain profits. If we are unable to renew this tax holiday when it expires, we will be required to start paying income tax at the statutory tax rate on our operations, which will adversely impact our effective tax rate. 15 Table of Contents International operations add increased volatility to our operating results. A substantial percentage of our revenues are derived from international sales, as summarized below: (percentage of total revenues) Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2007 Americas 20% 28% 30% Asia Pacific 63% 56% 47% Japan 9% 9% 13% Europe 8% 7% 10% Total 100% 100% 100% In addition, our facilities in Malaysia and Singapore, our design centers in Canada and China, and our foreign sales offices incur payroll, facility and other expenses in local currencies. Accordingly, movements in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our revenues and costs of goods sold, as well as both pricing and demand for our products. Our offshore sites and export sales are also subject to risks associated with foreign operations, including: · Political instability and acts of war or terrorism, which could disrupt our manufacturing and logistical activities; · Regulations regarding use of local employees and suppliers; · Currency controls and fluctuations, devaluation of foreign currencies, hard currency shortages and exchange rate fluctuations; · Changes in local economic conditions; · Governmental regulation of taxation of our earnings and those of our personnel; and · Changes in tax laws, import and export controls, tariffs and freight rates. Contract pricing for raw materials and equipment used in the fabrication and assembly processes, as well as for foundry and subcontract assembly services, may also be impacted by currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and currency devaluations. We sometimes hedge currency risk for currencies that are highly liquid and freely quoted, but may not enter into hedge contracts for currencies with limited trading volume. In addition, as much of our revenues are generated outside the United States, a significant portion of our cash and investment portfolio accumulates offshore. At March 29, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of approximately $200.7 million invested overseas in accounts belonging to various IDT foreign operating entities. While these amounts are primarily invested in U.S. dollars, a portion is held in foreign currencies, and all offshore balances are exposed to local political, banking, currency control and other risks. In addition, these amounts may be subject to tax and other transfer restrictions. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of stock-based compensation expense under SFAS 123(R) requires us to use valuation methodologies that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options and make a number of assumptions, estimates and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price and the exercise behavior of our employees. Changes in these variables could impact our stock-based compensation expense and have a significant impact on our gross margins, R&D and SG&A expenses. If the recent credit market conditions worsen, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Although we manage our investment portfolio by purchasing only highly rated securities and diversifying our investments across various sectors, investment types, and underlying issuers, recent volatility in the short-term financial markets has been unprecedented. We have a nominal amount of securities in asset backed commercial paper and hold no auction rated or mortgage backed securities. However it is uncertain as to the full extent of the current credit and liquidity crisis and with possible further deterioration, particularly within one or several of the large financial institutions, the value of our investments could be negatively impacted. 16 Table of Contents Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Volatility in the price of our common stock may occur in the future, particularly as a result of the current economic downturn and quarter-to-quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, or the financial results of other semiconductor companies or our customers. Stock price volatility may also result from product announcements by us or our competitors, or from changes in perceptions about the various types of products we manufacture and sell. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to price and volume fluctuations in the stock market, especially in the technology sector, and as a result of other considerations or events described in this section. We depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Any political, military, world health or other issue which hinders the worldwide movement of our personnel, raw materials, equipment or products or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. Furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other material disruption on the part of major airlines or other transportation companies could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 