ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, results, and financial condition. Our operating results can fluctuate dramatically. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future. For example, we recorded net income of $72.6 million in fiscal 2011 and $40.0 million in fiscal 2010 and a net loss of $1,045.2 million in fiscal 2009. Fluctuations in operating results can result from a wide variety of factors, including: · Global economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations; · Changes in the demand for and mix of products sold and in the markets we and our customers serve; · The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry; · The availability of industry-wide wafer processing capacity; · The availability of industry-wide and package specific assembly subcontract capacity and related raw materials; · Competitive pricing pressures; · The success and timing of new product and process technology announcements and introductions from us or our competitors; · Potential loss of market share among a concentrated group of customers; · Difficulty in attracting and retaining key personnel; · Difficulty in predicting customer product requirements; · Production difficulties and interruptions caused by our complex manufacturing and logistics operations; · Difficulty in managing fixed costs of our manufacturing capability in the face of changes in demand; · Reduced control over our manufacturing and product delivery as a result of our increasing reliance on subcontractors, foundry and other manufacturing services; · Unrealized potential of acquired businesses and resulting assets impairment; · Availability and costs of raw materials from a limited number of suppliers; · Political and economic conditions in various geographic areas; · Reduced customer demand as a result of the impact from natural and/or man-made disasters which may adversely impact our customer’s manufacturing capability or reduce our customer’s ability to acquire critical materials or components to manufacture their end products; · Costs associated with other events, such as intellectual property disputes or other litigation; and · Legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation. Global economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Adverse changes in global financial markets and rapidly deteriorating business conditions in the world’s developed economies in late 2008 and the first half of calendar year 2009 resulted in a significant global economic recession. Concerns about the impact of high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a declining real estate market in the U.S. and added concerns fueled by federal government interventions in the U.S. financial and credit markets contributed to instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, weakened demand and diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. These conditions, and the resulting low business and consumer confidence and high unemployment have contributed to substantial volatility in global capital markets and uncertain demand for our products throughout fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011. It is difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities in this economic environment. 11 Table of Contents The economic slowdown resulted in reduced customer spending for semiconductors and weakened demand for our products which had a negative impact on our revenue, gross profit, results of operations and cash flows during fiscal 2010. Although business conditions improved during the second half of fiscal 2010 and throughout fiscal 2011, global credit markets continue to be volatile and continued improvement in global economic activity is uncertain. Although the rate of economic growth in the United States as measured by gross domestic product (GDP) was positive throughout fiscal 2011, order rates from our customers declined in both the quarters ending September 26, 2010 and January 2, 2011, indicating lower demand for our products. Should the rate of global economic growth falter, customer demand for our products may continue to decline which is likely to have a negative impact on our revenue, gross profit, results of operations and cash flows. Reduced customer spending and weakened demand may drive the semiconductor industry to reduce product pricing, which would also have a negative impact on our revenue, gross profit and results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, deterioration in general economic conditions and we cannot accurately predict how severe and prolonged any downturn might be. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry exacerbates the volatility of our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers, but also related to declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by volatile customer demand, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future economic downturns could significantly impact our business from one period to the next relative to demand and product pricing. In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced periods of increased demand, during which we may experience internal and external manufacturing constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Demand for our products depends primarily on demand in the communications, enterprise computing, personal computer (PC), and consumer markets which can be significantly impacted by concerns over macroeconomic issues. Our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, computing, and consumer markets. Our strategy and resources are directed at the development, production and marketing of products for these markets. The markets for our products will depend on continued and growing demand for communications equipment, servers, PCs and consumer electronics. These end-user markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our business and could be greater in periods of economic uncertainty and contraction. To the extent demand or markets for our products or markets for our products do not grow, our business could be adversely affected. We build most of our products based on estimated demand forecasts. Demand for our products can change rapidly and without advance notice. Demand can also be affected by changes in our customers’ levels of inventory and differences in the timing and pattern of orders from their end customers. A large percentage of our revenue in the APAC region is recognized upon shipment to our distributors. Consequently, we have less visibility over both inventory levels at our distributors and end customer demand for our products. Further, the distributors have assumed more risk associated with changes in end demand for our products. Accordingly, significant changes in end demand in the semiconductor business in general, or for our products in particular, may be difficult for us to detect or otherwise measure, which could cause us to incorrectly forecast end-market demand for our products. If we are not able to accurately forecast end demand for our products, we may be left with large amounts of unsold products, may not be able to fill all actual orders, and may not be able to efficiently utilize our existing manufacturing capacity or make optimal investment and other business decisions. As a result, we may end up with excess and obsolete inventory or we may be unable to meet customer short-term demands, either of which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. On August 6, 2009, we announced a plan to transition the manufacture of products currently produced at our Oregon fabrication facility to TSMC. In connection with the plan, our management approved a plan to exit wafer production operations at our Oregon fabrication facility. As a result, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we began to build inventory in anticipation of the transition. Inventory levels are expected to increase through the second quarter of fiscal 2012, and possibly through the third quarter of fiscal 2012, to support the wafer fabrication transition and customer qualification of new foundry manufactured products. However, if customer demand does not develop as we anticipate, it may become necessary for us to write-off or scrap a portion of the transition inventory which could adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to execute our business strategy, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to be a leading provider of essential mixed signal semiconductor solutions includes, without limitation, plans to: (1) our ability to continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio including focus on the development and growth of new applications; (2) our ability to continue to maintain existing customers, aggressively pursue and win new customers; (3) our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market new products in a timely manner; (4) our ability to develop new products in a more efficient manner ; (5) our ability to sufficiently differentiate and enhance of our products; (5) our ability to successfully deploy R&D investment in the areas of displays, silicon timing, power management, signal integrity and radio frequency; (6) our ability to rationalize our manufacturing operations including the transition to wholly outsourced wafer fabrication operations. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors is subject to one or more of the risk factors set forth in this annual report. Several risks that could affect our ability to implement our business strategy are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy. Our results are dependent on the success of new products. The markets we serve are characterized by competition, rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and continuous erosion of average selling prices. Consequently, our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to continually develop new products using the latest and most cost-effective technologies, introduce our products in commercial quantities to the marketplace ahead of the competition and have our products selected for inclusion in leading system manufacturers’ products. In addition, the development of new products will continue to require significant R&D expenditures. If we are unable to successfully develop, produce and market new products in a timely manner, have our products available in commercial quantities ahead of competitive products or have our products selected for inclusion in products of systems manufacturers and sell them at gross margins comparable to or better than our current products, our future results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, our future revenue growth is also partially dependent on our ability to penetrate new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors are already entrenched. Even if we are able to develop, produce and successfully market new products in a timely manner, such new products may not achieve market acceptance. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers for a significant part of our revenues. A large portion of our revenues depends on sales to a limited number of customers. If these relationships were to diminish, or if these customers were to develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor’s solution instead of buying our products, our results could be adversely affected. Many of our end-customer OEMs have outsourced their manufacturing to a concentrated group of global EMSs and original design manufacturers (“ODMs”) who then buy products directly from us or from our distributors on behalf of the OEM. These EMSs and ODMs have achieved greater autonomy in the design win, product qualification and product purchasing decisions, especially for commodity products. Competition for the business of these EMSs and ODMs is intense and there is no assurance we can remain competitive and retain our existing market share with these customers. If these companies were to allocate a higher share of commodity or second-source business to our competitors instead of buying our products, our results would be adversely affected. Furthermore, as EMSs and ODMs have represented a growing percentage of our overall business, our concentration of credit and other business risks with these customers has increased. Competition among global EMSs and ODMs is intense as they operate on extremely thin margins. If any one or more of these global EMSs or ODMs were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business would be adversely impacted as well. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we utilize a relatively small number of global and regional distributors around the world, who buy product directly from us on behalf of their customers. For example, one family of distributors, Maxtek and its affiliates, represented approximately 19% of our total revenues for fiscal 2011 and represented approximately 19% of our gross accounts receivable as of April 3, 2011. If our business relationships with any of these distributors were to diminish or any of these distributors were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business could be adversely impacted. Because we continue to be dependent upon continued revenue from a small group of OEM end customers and global and regional distributors, any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from or loss of these or other major customers could cause our sales to decline significantly, and we may not be able to reduce the corresponding expenses at the same rate. We are reliant upon subcontractors and third-party foundries. Beginning in fiscal 2008, we stopped performing assembly services in-house and are totally dependent on subcontractors for assembly operations. We are also dependent on third-party outside foundries for the manufacture of an increasing portion of our silicon wafers. Our increased reliance on subcontractors and third-party foundries for our current products increases certain risks because we will have less control over manufacturing quality and delivery schedules, maintenance of sufficient capacity to meet our orders and generally, maintaining the manufacturing processes we require. As a result of our decision to transfer our internal wafer fabrication production to outside foundries, our use of subcontractors and third-party foundries will continue to increase. Due to production lead times and potential capacity constraints, any failure on our part to adequately forecast the mix of product demand and resulting foundry and subcontractor requirements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot be certain that these foundries and subcontractors will continue to manufacture, assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms, or at all, and it may be difficult for us to find alternatives in a timely and cost-effective manner if they do not do so. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate raw materials on a timely basis. The number of suppliers of certain raw materials, such as silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals and certain chemicals and gases needed for our products, is very limited. In addition, certain packages for our products require long lead times and are available from only a few suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times or limited supply to us due to capacity constraints. Our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials, or if foundry or assembly subcontractor capacity was not available, or was only available at uncompetitive prices. Our operations and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters. A majority of the third-party foundries and subcontractors we currently use are primarily located in China, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. In addition, we own a test facility in Malaysia. The risk of an earthquake and tsunami in these Pacific Rim locations is significant, as highlighted by the severe earthquake and tsunami that struck the northeast coast of Japan in March 2011. However, we have not experienced the significant impact on our operations from this disaster. The occurrence of an earthquake, drought, floods, fires or other natural disaster near any of these locations could cause a significant reduction of end customer demand, a disruption of the global supply chain, an increase in the cost of products that we purchase and otherwise interfere with our ability to conduct our business. In addition, public health issues, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events could significantly delay the production or shipment of our products. Although we maintain insurance for some of the damage that may be caused by natural disasters, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and would not cover us for lost business. As a result, a natural disaster in one or more of these regions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, be difficult to integrate and/or adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions and divestitures are commonplace in the semiconductor industry and we have acquired and divested, and may continue to acquire or divest businesses and technologies. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Acquisitions or divestitures could divert our management’s attention and other resources from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions and divestitures could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, dilutive or potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which 14 Table of Contents could harm our business. Consequently, we might not be successful in acquiring or integrating any new businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. In addition, we might be unsuccessful in finding or completing divestiture opportunities on acceptable terms in a timely manner. Intellectual property claims against and /or on behalf of the Company could adversely affect our business and operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have been involved with patent litigation and asserted intellectual property claims in the past, both as a plaintiff and a defendant, some of which have adversely affected our operating results. Although we have obtained patent licenses from certain semiconductor manufacturers, we do not have licenses from a number of semiconductor manufacturers that have broad patent portfolios. Claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights have been asserted against us in the past and could be asserted against us in the future. These claims could result in our having to discontinue the use of certain processes; license certain technologies; cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products; incur significant litigation costs and damages; and develop non-infringing technology. We might not be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms or develop non-infringing technology. Further, the failure to renew or renegotiate existing licenses on favorable terms, or the inability to obtain a key license, could materially and adversely affect our business. Future litigation, either as a plaintiff or a defendant, could adversely affect our operating results, as a result of increased expenses, the cost of settled claims, and/or payment of damages. Our product manufacturing operations are complex and subject to interruption. From time to time, we have experienced production difficulties, including lower manufacturing yields or products that do not meet our or our customers' specifications, which has resulted in delivery delays, quality problems and lost revenue opportunities. While delivery delays have been infrequent and generally short in duration, we could experience manufacturing problems, capacity constraints and/or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, the complexity of our manufacturing processes, changes to our process technologies (including transfers to other facilities and die size reduction efforts), and difficulties in ramping production and installing new equipment at our facilities. In addition, any significant quality problems could damage our reputation with our customers and could take focus away from the development of new and enhanced products. These could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. We are dependent upon electric power and water provided by public utilities where we operate our manufacturing facilities. We maintain limited backup generating capability, but the amount of electric power that we can generate on our own is insufficient to fully operate these facilities, and prolonged power interruptions and restrictions on our access to water could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Tax audits may have a material affect on our profitability. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region in which we operate. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States (U.S.), is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority such as the United States Internal Revenue Service could have a material affect on our profitability. The costs associated with the legal proceedings in which we are involved can be substantial, specific costs are unpredictable and not completely within our control, and unexpected increases in litigation costs could adversely affect our operating results. We are currently involved in legal proceedings, as described below in Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings." The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable and are not completely within our control. While we do our best to forecast and control such costs, the costs may be materially more than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, we may become involved in unexpected litigation with additional companies at any time, which 15 Table of Contents would increase our aggregate litigation costs and could adversely affect our operating results. We are not able to predict the outcome of any of our legal actions and an adverse decision in any of our legal actions could significantly harm our business and financial performance. We are dependent on key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees could adversely affect our business. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to successfully compete with other technology firms in attracting and retaining specialized technical and management personnel. If we are unable to identify, hire and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, our business could be harmed. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (please see Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of stock-based compensation expense under the authoritative guidance requires us to use valuation methodologies that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options and make a number of assumptions, estimates and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price and the exercise behavior of our employees. Changes in these variables could impact our stock-based compensation expense and have a significant impact on our gross margins, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), SEC and various organizations formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards and practices. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. Tax benefits we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. As a result of our international manufacturing operations, a significant portion of our worldwide profits are in jurisdictions outside the United States, including Bermuda and Malaysia which offer significant reductions in tax rates. These lower tax rates allow us to record a relatively low tax expense on a worldwide basis. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on our income and capital gains. If U.S. corporate income tax laws were to change regarding deferral of manufacturing profits or other matters impacting our operating structure, this would have a significant impact to our financial results. President Obama’s Administration budget proposals have U.S. tax legislative proposals that, if enacted, may adversely impact our effective tax rate and overall tax paying position in the U.S. In addition, we were granted a tax holiday in Malaysia during fiscal 2009. The tax holiday was contingent upon us continuing to meet specified investment criteria in fixed assets, and to operate as an APAC regional headquarters center. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we agreed with the Malaysia Industrial Development Board (MIDA) to cancel this tax holiday and entered into a new tax holiday which is a full tax exemption on statutory income for a period of 10 years commencing April 4, 2011. We are required to meet several requirements as to financial targets, investment, headcount and activities in Malaysia to retain this status. Our inability to renew this tax holiday when it expires or meet certain conditions of the agreement with MIDA may adversely impact our effective tax rate. 16 Table of Contents International operations add increased volatility to our operating results. A substantial percentage of our total revenues are derived from international sales, as summarized below: (percentage of total revenues) Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Asia Pacific 64 % 65 % 63 % Americas 15 % 17 % 20 % Japan 11 % 10 % 9 % Europe 10 % 8 % 8 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % In addition, our test facility in Malaysia, our design centers in Canada and China, and our foreign sales offices incur payroll, facility and other expenses in local currencies. Accordingly, movements in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our revenues and costs of goods sold, as well as both pricing and demand for our products. Our non-U.S. offshore sites, manufacturing subcontractors and export sales are also subject to risks associated with foreign operations, including: · Political instability and acts of war or terrorism, which could disrupt our manufacturing and logistical activities; · Regulations regarding use of local employees and suppliers; · Currency controls and fluctuations, devaluation of foreign currencies, hard currency shortages and exchange rate fluctuations; · Changes in local economic conditions; · Governmental regulation of taxation of our earnings and those of our personnel; and · Changes in tax laws, import and export controls, tariffs and freight rates. Contract pricing for raw materials and equipment used in the fabrication and assembly processes, as well as for foundry and subcontract assembly services, may also be impacted by currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and currency devaluations. We sometimes hedge currency risk for currencies that are highly liquid and freely quoted, but may not enter into hedge contracts for currencies with limited trading volume. In addition, as much of our revenues are generated outside the United States, a significant portion of our cash and investment portfolio accumulates in the foreign countries in which we operate. At April 3, 2011, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of approximately $176.4 million invested overseas in accounts belonging to our foreign subsidiaries. While these amounts are primarily invested in U.S. dollars, a portion is held in foreign currencies, and all offshore balances are exposed to local political, banking, currency control and other risks. In addition, these amounts may be subject to tax and other transfer restrictions. If the credit market conditions deteriorate, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Although we manage our investment portfolio by purchasing only highly rated securities and diversifying our investments across various sectors, investment types, and underlying issuers, recent volatility in the short-term financial markets has been unprecedented. We have no securities in asset backed commercial paper and hold no auction rated or mortgage backed securities. However it is uncertain as to the full extent of the current credit and liquidity crisis and with possible further deterioration, particularly within one or several of the large financial institutions, the value of our investments could be negatively impacted. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business. We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, communication lines and networking equipment. To the extent that these information systems are under our 17 Table of Contents control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. While we believe that our information systems are appropriately controlled and that we have processes in place to adequately manage these risks, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. We had over $1 billion of goodwill and over $204 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet at the beginning of fiscal 2009. As a result of our impairment analysis in fiscal 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $946.3 million and an acquisition-related intangible asset impairment charge of $79.4 million primarily related to the ICS acquisition in fiscal 2006. In determining fair value, we consider various factors including our market capitalization, forecasted revenue and costs, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, determination of appropriate market comparables and expected periods over which our assets will be utilized and other variables. If our assumptions regarding forecasted cash flow, revenue and margin growth rates of certain long-lived asset groups and reporting units are not achieved, it is reasonably possible that an impairment review may be triggered for the remaining balance of goodwill and long-lived assets prior to the next annual review in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, which could result in material charges that could impact our operating results and financial position. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in other companies, both public and private. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose invested resources. In addition, we evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. We are subject to a variety of environmental and other regulations related to hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes. Any failure by us to adequately control the use or discharge of hazardous materials under present or future regulations could subject us to substantial costs or liabilities or cause our manufacturing operations to be suspended. We have limited experience with government contracting, which entails differentiated business risks. We may from time-to-time derive revenue from contracts and subcontracts with agencies of, or prime or secondary contractors to, the U.S. government, including U.S. military agencies. Consequently, we are subject to certain business risks that are particular to companies that contract with U.S. government agencies. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government or related contractors to unilaterally: · Terminate contracts at its convenience; · Terminate, modify or reduce the value of existing contracts, if budgetary constraints or needs change; · Cancel multi-year contracts and related orders, if funds become unavailable; · Adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits performed by U.S. government agencies; · Control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; · Require that the company continue to supply products despite the expiration of a contract under certain circumstances; · Require that the company fill certain types of rated orders for the U.S. government prior to filling any orders for other customers; and · Suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of any alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. 18 Table of Contents In addition, because we may enter into defense industry contracts with respect to products that are sold both within and outside of the United States, we are subject to the following additional risks in connection with government contracts: · The need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties, delays and/or cost overruns; · The difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term fixed price contracts; and · The need to transfer and obtain security clearances and export licenses, as appropriate. The revenue from, and activity with, contracts and subcontracts with agencies of, or prime contractors to, the U.S. government, has declined subsequent to the disposition of our military business to Spectrum Control, Inc. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Volatility in the price of our common stock may occur in the future, particularly as a result of the current economic downturn and quarter-to-quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, or the financial results of other semiconductor companies or our customers. Stock price volatility may also result from product announcements by us or our competitors, or from changes in perceptions about the various types of products we manufacture and sell. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to price and volume fluctuations in the stock market, especially in the technology sector, and as a result of other considerations or events described in this section. We depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Any political, military, world health or other issue which hinders the worldwide movement of our personnel, raw materials, equipment or products or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. Furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other material disruption on the part of major airlines or other transportation companies could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 