ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Lawson's business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us and described below may negatively affect our business operations or affect our financial results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations or affect our financial results.Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by a downturn in the economy. Any decline or uncertainty in the strength of the economy may lead to a decrease in customer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. Some of our customers may file for bankruptcy protection, preventing us from collecting on accounts receivable and may result in our stocking excess inventory. Contractions in the credit markets may also cause some of our customers to experience difficulties in obtaining financing, leading to lower sales, delays in the collection of receivables and result in an increase in bad debt expense. Adverse economic conditions could also affect our key suppliers and contractors. This could lead to us incurring additional expenses or result in delays in shipping products to our customers. Economic uncertainty can make it difficult for us to accurately predict future order activity and affect our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and identify risks that may affect our business. Our ability to finance our operations by borrowing through our current Loan and Security Agreement ("Loan Agreement") could also be at risk if the lender is unable to provide funds under the terms of the agreement due to a bankruptcy or a restructuring. There are no assurances that we would be able to establish alternative financing or obtain financing with terms similar to our present Loan Agreement.Failure to adequately fund our operating and working capital needs through cash generated from operations and cash available through our Loan Agreement could negatively impact our ability to invest in the business and maintain our capital structure.Our business requires investment in working capital and fixed assets. We fund these investments from cash generated from operations and funds available from our Loan Agreement. At December 31, 2013, we had $16.1 million of borrowings on the revolving line of credit and additional borrowing availability of $17.9 million. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or from our Loan Agreement could cause us to have insufficient funds to operate our business. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. Net proceeds from the subsequent sale of Automatic Screw Machine Products ("ASMP") in the first quarter of 2014 were used to pay down outstanding borrowings.Failure to meet the covenant requirements of our Loan Agreement could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions and reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds.Our Loan Agreement contains financial and other restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our financial and operating flexibility as well as our ability to plan for and react to market conditions and to meet our capital needs. Failure to meet these covenant requirements could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions, or reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds. If we require more liquidity than is currently available to us under our Loan Agreement, we may need to raise additional funds through debt or equity offerings which may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us. Should funding be insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock may decline.Our stock price could decrease if our financial performance is inadequate or does not meet investors' expectations, if there is deterioration in the overall market for equities, if large amounts of shares are sold in the market or if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements are negatively impacted by an economic downturn. A significant portion of our inventory may become obsolete.Our business strategy requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory in order to meet rapid processing of customer orders. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in inventory levels exceeding the levels demanded 8Table of Contentsby customers or should our customers decrease their orders with us, our operating results could be adversely affected due to costs of carrying the inventory and additional inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory.Work stoppages and other disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect our ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to our customers.Our ability to rapidly process customer orders is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Interruptions at our company operated facilities or disruptions at a major transportation center or shipping port, due to events such as severe weather, labor interruptions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other events, could affect our ability to maintain core products in inventory, deliver products to our customers on a timely basis or adversely affect demand for our products, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in our customers, product mix and pricing strategy could cause our gross margin percentage to decline in the future.From time to time, we have experienced changes in product mix and inventory costs. When our product mix changes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross profit margins. Changes in our customers, product mix, volume of orders or the prices charged could cause our gross profit margin percentage to decline. We expect that our gross margin percentage will be under pressure in the future as we continue to increase the percentage of national accounts in our customer base.Increases in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins.Increases in the cost of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel, brass) and increases in energy costs raise the production costs of our vendors. Those vendors typically look to pass the higher costs along to us through price increases. If we are unable to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities, the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating profit margins.Disruptions of our information and communication systems could adversely affect the Company.We depend on our information and communication systems to process orders, purchase and manage inventory, maintain cost-effective operations, sell and ship products, manage accounts receivable collections and service our customers. Disruptions in the operation of information and communication systems can occur due to a variety of factors including power outages, hardware failure, programming faults and human error. Disruptions in the operation of our information and communication systems, whether over a short or an extended period of time or affecting one or multiple distribution centers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cyber attacks or other information security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, subject us to additional legal costs and damage our reputation in the marketplace. We are increasingly dependent on digital technology to process and record financial and operating data and communicate with our employees and business partners. During the normal course of business we receive, retain and transmit certain confidential information that our customers provide to us to purchase products or services or otherwise communicate with us. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations, subject us to additional legal costs and damage our reputation in the marketplace. Although to date we have not experienced any losses relating to cyber attacks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and fix any information security vulnerabilities.The inability to successfully recruit, integrate and retain productive sales representatives could adversely affect our operating results.We have committed to a plan to aggressively increase the size of our sales force which we believe will lead to increased sales and improve our long-term financial results. A successful expansion in our sales force requires us to identify under served territories that offer the greatest potential growth opportunity, locate and recruit talented sales representatives, provide them with the proper training, and successfully integrate them into our organization. This expansion plan requires significant investment in 9Table of Contentscapital and resources and the failure to identify the optimal sales territories, recruit quality sales representatives and provide them with sufficient support could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, we anticipate a short-term decrease in average sales per day per sales representative as new representatives build up customer relationships in their territories.It is also critical to retain the experienced and productive sales representatives that have historically contributed to our success. Failure to retain a sufficient number of talented, experienced and productive sales representatives could adversely affect our operating results.Failure to retain talented employees, managers and executives could negatively impact our operating results.Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers. The loss of certain key executives and managers, or the failure to attract and develop talented employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. The inability of management to successfully implement changes in operating processes, could lead to disruptions in our operations.We have initiated a Lean Six Sigma process intended to drive operational efficiencies throughout the organization and to continuously identify and initiate changes intended to improve our internal operations. The implementation of changes to our current operations involve a risk that the changes may not work as intended, may disrupt related processes, may not be properly applied or may not result in accomplishing the intended efficiencies. Failure to successfully manage the implementation of these changes could lead to disruptions in our operations.The Company operates in highly competitive markets.Our marketplace, although consolidating, still includes large, fragmented industries which are highly competitive. We believe that customers and competitors may continue to consolidate over the next few years, which may make the industry even more competitive. Our competitors include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources and we believe they will continue to challenge the marketplace with their product selection, financial resources, and services.Changes that affect governmental and other tax-supported entities could negatively impact our sales and earnings. A portion of our sales are derived from the United States military and other governmental and tax-supported entities. These entities are largely dependent upon government budgets and require adherence to certain laws and regulations. A decrease in the levels of defense and other governmental spending or the introduction of more stringent governmental regulations and oversight, could lead to reduced sales or an increase in compliance costs which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.Any violation of Federal, state or local environmental protection regulations could lead to significant penalties and fines or other remediation costs.Our product offering includes a wide variety of industrial chemicals and other products which are subject to a multitude of Federal, state and local regulations. These environmental protection laws change frequently and affect the composition, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of these products. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to severe penalties and fines for each violation. Additionally, we have determined that a facility we own in Decatur, Alabama contains hazardous substances in the soil and groundwater as a result of historical operations prior to our ownership. We have retained an environmental consulting firm to further investigate the contamination, including measurement and monitoring of the site. At this time insufficient data regarding the situation has been collected to reasonably estimate the extent of the contamination or the cost, if any, of remedying this situation. Additional procedures may be required to remediate the situation that could negatively impact our operating results.Our results of operations could be affected by changes in taxation.Our results of operations could be affected by changes in tax rates, audits by taxing authorities or changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations could also affect our ability to realize the deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which could affect our results of operations.10ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.