ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Lawson's business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us and described below may negatively affect our business operations or affect our financial results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations or affect our financial results.Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by a downturn in the economy. Any decline or uncertainty in the strength of the economy may lead to a decrease in customer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. Some of our customers may file for bankruptcy protection, preventing us from collecting on accounts receivable and may result in our stocking excess inventory. Contractions in the credit markets may also cause some of our customers to experience difficulties in obtaining financing, leading to lower sales, delays in the collection of receivables and result in an increase in bad debt expense. Adverse economic conditions could also affect our key suppliers and contractors. This could lead to us incurring additional expenses or result in delays in shipping products to our customers. Economic uncertainty can make it difficult for us to accurately predict future order activity and affect our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and identify risks that may affect our business. Our ability to finance our operations by borrowing through our current credit agreement could also be at risk if the lender is unable to provide funds under the terms of the agreement due to a bankruptcy or a restructuring. There are no assurances that we would be able to establish alternative financing or obtain financing with terms similar to our present credit agreement.The market price of our common stock may decline.Our stock price could decrease if our financial performance is inadequate or does not meet investors' expectations, if there is deterioration in the overall market for equities, if large amounts of shares are sold in the market or if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements are negatively impacted by an economic downturn. A significant portion of our inventory may become obsolete.Our business strategy requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory in order to meet rapid processing of customer orders. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in inventory levels exceeding the levels demanded by customers or should our customers decrease their orders with us, our operating results could be adversely affected due to costs of carrying the inventory and additional inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory.Work stoppages and other disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect our ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to our customers.Our ability to rapidly process customer orders is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Interruptions at our company operated facilities or disruptions at a major transportation center or shipping port, due to events such as severe weather, labor interruptions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other events, could affect both our ability to maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We also face a risk of service disruptions during the transition of our Addison, Illinois operations into the new McCook Facility. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. Changes in our customers, product mix and pricing strategy could cause our gross margin percentage to decline in the future.From time to time, we have experienced changes in product mix and inventory costs. When our product mix changes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross profit margins. Changes in our customers, product mix, volume of orders or the prices charged could cause our gross profit margin percentage to decline. We expect that our gross margin percentage will be under pressure in the future as we continue to increase the mix of national accounts in our customer base.9Table of ContentsIncreases in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins.Increases in the cost of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel, brass) and energy costs raise the production costs of our vendors. Those vendors typically look to pass the higher costs along to us through price increases. If we are unable to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities, the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating profit margins.Disruptions of our information and communication systems could adversely affect the Company.We depend on our information and communication systems to process orders, purchase and manage inventory, maintain cost-effective operations, sell and ship products, manage accounts receivable collections and service our customers. Disruptions in the operation of information and communication systems can occur due to a variety of factors including power outages, hardware failure, programming faults and human error. Any disruption in the operation of our information and communication systems whether over a short or an extended period of time or affecting one or multiple distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With the upgrade of our technological infrastructure, we are increasingly dependent on digital technology to process and record financial and operating data and communicate with our employees and business partners. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. Although to date we have not experienced any losses relating to cyber attacks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and fix any information security vulnerabilities.The inability of management to successfully implement major strategic initiatives, could result in significant disruptions in the Company's operations and increase our costs.We have committed to developing and executing major strategic initiatives to strengthen our core MRO operations which we believe will significantly enhance our ability to better serve our customers and improve our business. The initiatives are expected to transform our current sales processes and optimize our supply network. In 2013, among other undertakings, we plan to transition our Addison, Illinois operations to the new McCook facility.These initiatives require additional capital investments and resources and involve significant changes to our current operating processes. Failure to successfully implement these initiatives could result in disruptions in our operations, loss of business and increased costs.Failure to manage changes within the organization.Our organization is undergoing significant change including the consolidation of network operations, operating with a U.S. employee based sales model and launching a new redesigned website. These initiatives, and other changes, could impact our business model and affect the culture of our organization to emphasize continuous improvements, be results driven and focused on our end customer. Failure to manage through these changes could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.Failure to retain talented employees, managers and executives could negatively impact our operating results.Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers. The loss of certain key executives and managers, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to retain experienced and productive sales representatives could negatively impact our operating results.Our MRO sales are primarily driven by sales representatives. Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of talented, experienced and productive sales representatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future expenses may be affected by the change in status of our U.S. independent agents to employees in 2013.10Table of ContentsThe Company operates in highly competitive markets.Our marketplace, although consolidating, still includes large, fragmented industries which are highly competitive. We believe that customers and competitors may continue to consolidate over the next few years, which may make the industry even more competitive. Our competitors include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources and we believe they will continue to challenge the marketplace with their product selection, financial resources, and services.Failure to adequately fund our operating and working capital needs through cash generated from operations and cash available through our credit facility could negatively impact our ability to invest in the business and maintain our capital structure.Our business requires investment in working capital and fixed assets. In August 2012 we entered into a new five year $40.0 million credit facility based upon eligible accounts receivable and inventory. At December 31, 2012, we had $16.1 million of borrowings on our revolving line of credit and additional borrowing availability of $18.2 million. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to obtain working capital under our credit agreement could cause us to have insufficient funds to operate our business. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us.Failure to meet the covenant requirements of our credit agreement could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions and reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds.Our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our financial and operating flexibility as well as our ability to plan for and react to market conditions and to meet our capital needs. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay indebtedness before its due date, and we may not have the financial resources or be able to arrange alternative financing to do so. Changes that affect governmental and other tax-supported entities could negatively impact our sales and earnings. A portion of our sales are derived from the United States military and other governmental and tax supported entities. These entities are largely dependent upon government budgets and require adherence to certain laws and regulations. A decrease in the levels of defense and other governmental spending or the introduction of more stringent governmental regulations and oversight could lead to reduced sales or an increase in compliance costs which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.Any violation of Federal, state or local environmental protection regulations could lead to significant penalties and fines.Our product offering includes a wide variety of industrial chemicals and other products which are subject to a multitude of Federal, state and local regulations. These environmental protection laws change frequently and affect the composition, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of the products. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to severe penalties and fines for each violation. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in taxation.Our results of operations could be affected by changes in tax rates, audits by taxing authorities or changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations could also affect our ability to realize the deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which could affect our results of operations.We are currently the subject of an employment tax examination which could result in a negative settlement.One of our subsidiaries, Drummond American LLC (“Drummond”) is under an employment tax examination for the years 2007 and 2008 of the long-standing treatment of its sales representatives as independent contractors. In January 2012 we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment in the amount of $9.5 million, including penalties, from the IRS challenging Drummond's position that the sales representatives were independent contractors. Although we intend to vigorously defend our position for the treatment of the sales representatives as independent contractors, we established a liability of $1.2 million as our best estimate of the cost to resolve the matter. An unfavorable outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation. 11Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.