ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Lawson’s business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us which may cause the operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results are as follows: Our results of operations may continue to be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic recession. As a result, demand for our products may significantly decline or the market price of our common stock may decline. In late 2007, the U.S. and world economies entered into a severe economic recession due to the effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile energy and commodity costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and have caused U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on products throughout our industry, which adversely impacts our revenues and our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables and ultimately our profitability. We cannot predict the duration of the recession or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements will be negatively impacted by a continued worldwide recession. A decrease in our stock price reduces the market value of the Company compared to the book value of our net assets, which may lead to further impairment of our assets. Our Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois, and any potential breach of such agreement, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “DPA”) in August 2008 with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois (the “U.S. Attorney’s Office), which provides for the payment of $30.0 million in penalties to resolve our liability for the actions of our representatives in improperly providing gifts or awards to purchasing agents through our then-existing customer loyalty programs. The signing of the DPA may negatively affect our ability to do business with certain customers (both government and non-government customers). In addition, under the terms of the DPA, if it is determined that we deliberately gave false, incomplete or misleading information under the DPA or have committed any federal crimes subsequent to the DPA, or otherwise knowingly, intentionally, and materially violated any provision of the DPA, we may be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which the U.S. Attorney’s Office has knowledge. We cannot predict the impact, if any, of the signing of the DPA on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. A significant portion of our inventory may become obsolete. Our business strategy requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory in order to meet rapid processing of customer orders. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in inventory levels exceeding the levels demanded by customers, our operating results could be adversely affected due to costs of carrying the inventory and additional inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory. Work stoppages and other disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect our ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to Lawson’s customers. Our ability to rapidly process customer orders is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports, due to events such as severe weather or labor interruptions or other events, affect both our ability to maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a 7 Table of Contents timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions. Changes in our customers and product mix could cause our gross margin percentage to decline in the future. From time to time, we have experienced changes in product mix and inventory costs. When our product mix changes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross profit margins. Changes in our customers, product mix, or the volume of orders could cause our gross profit margin percentage to decline. Increases in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins. Increases in the cost of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel) and energy costs raise the production costs of our vendors. Those vendors typically look to pass the higher costs along to us through price increases. If we are unable to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities, the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating profit margins. Disruptions of our information systems could adversely affect the Company. We depend on our information systems to process orders, to manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, to purchase, sell and ship products, to maintain cost-effective operations, and to service customers. Disruptions in the operation of information systems can occur due to a variety of factors including power outages, computer bugs and human error. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems whether over a short or an extended period of time or affecting one or multiple distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of the Company’s stockholders can exert significant influence over the Company. As of January 31, 2009, members of the Port family collectively beneficially owned 55.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock. This share ownership would permit these stockholders, if they chose to act together, to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of the Port family may differ from those of other stockholders. The Company operates in highly competitive markets. Our marketplace, although consolidating, still includes large, fragmented industries that are highly competitive. We believe that customers and competitors may continue to consolidate over the next few years, which may make the industry even more competitive. Our current or future competitors include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources, and we believe they will continue to challenge the marketplace with their product selection, financial resources, and services. Future acquisitions are subject to integration and other risks. We anticipate that we may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses or assets. Acquisitions are accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may not obtain the expected benefits or cost savings from acquisitions. Acquisitions are subject to risks associated with financing the acquisition and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or assets. If any of these risks materialize, they may result in disruptions to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, which could increase the costs of operating our existing or acquired businesses or negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions. 8 Table of Contents An economic or other situation that affects government and tax-supported entities could negatively impact our sales and earnings. We sell to numerous government and tax supported entities. Any situation that impacts these funded entities or our ability to sell to these entities could have a material adverse effect on the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 