ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Lawson’s business. The Company’s operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to the Company which may cause the operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect the Company’s operating results and profitability are as follows: If the Company is unable to successfully conclude the pending governmental investigation of the Company, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected. In December 2005, the FBI executed a search warrant for records at the Company’s offices and informed the Company that it was conducting an investigation as to whether any of the Company’s representatives improperly provided gifts or awards to purchasing agents (including government purchasing agents) through the Company’s customer loyalty programs. The U.S. Attorney’s office for the Northern District of Illinois subsequently issued a subpoena for documents in connection with this investigation. The Company’s internal investigation regarding these matters has consisted of a review of the Company’s records and interviews with Company employees and independent agents and is not complete. In conjunction with the Company’s internal investigation, several customer loyalty programs have been terminated because the Company believes that these programs provided or had the potential of providing promotional considerations, such as gifts and awards, to purchasing agents that the Company has deemed inappropriate. The Company has modified another customer loyalty program to limit the amount and nature of customer gifts distributed under the program. In addition, twenty-three independent agents have been terminated or have resigned and the Company has terminated four employees in connection with its investigation. The Company is cooperating with the ongoing investigation of the U.S. Attorney, however, the Company cannot predict when the investigation will be 6 completed or what the outcome or the effect of the investigation will be. The outcome of the investigation could result in criminal sanctions or civil remedies against the Company, including material fines, injunctions or the loss of the Company’s ability to conduct business with governmental entities. A significant portion of Lawson’s inventory may become obsolete. Lawson’s business strategy requires the Company to carry a significant amount of inventory in order to meet rapid processing of customer orders. If the Company’s inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in the Company carrying inventory levels in excess of the levels demanded by the Company’s customers, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected due to costs of carrying the inventory and additional inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory. Work stoppages and other disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect Lawson’s ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to Lawson’s customers. The Company’s ability to provide rapid processing of customer orders is an integral component of the Company’s overall business strategy. Disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports, due to events such as severe weather or labor interruptions or other events, affect both the Company’s ability to maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to the Company’s customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products in particularly hard hit regions. Changes in the Company’s customers and product mix could cause the Company’s gross margin percentage to fluctuate or decline in the future. From time to time, the Company has experienced changes in product mix and inventory costs. When the Company’s product mix changes, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its historical gross profit margins. Changes in the Company’s customers, product mix, or the volume of Lawson’s orders could cause its gross profit margin percentage to fluctuate or decline. Increases in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in Lawson’s products could impact Lawson’s cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins. Costs of raw materials used in Lawson’s products (e.g. steel) and energy costs have been rising during the last several years, which has resulted in increased production costs for Lawson’s vendors. Those vendors typically look to pass their increased costs along to Lawson through price increases. If Lawson is unable to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to Lawson’s customers or to modify Lawson’s activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating profit margins. Disruptions of Lawson’s information systems could adversely affect the Company. The Company depends upon its information systems to help process orders, to manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, to purchase, sell and ship products, to maintain cost-effective operations, and to service customers. Disruptions in the operation of information systems can occur due to a variety of factors including power outages, computer bugs and human error. Any disruption in the operation of the Company’s information systems whether over a short or an extended period of time or affecting one or multiple distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on Lawson’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of the Company’s stockholders can exert significant influence over the Company. As of February 28, 2007, members of the Port family collectively beneficially owned 55.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock. This share ownership would permit these stockholders, if they chose to act together, to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. 7 The Company operates in highly competitive markets. The Company’s marketplace, although consolidating, still includes large, fragmented industries that are highly competitive. The Company believes that customers and competitors may continue to consolidate over the next few years, which may make the industry even more competitive. The Company’s current or future competitors include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources, and the Company believes they will continue to challenge the marketplace with their product selection, financial resources, and services. The Rutland acquisition and future acquisitions are subject to integration and other risks. The Company anticipates that it may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses or assets. Acquisitions are accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In addition, the Company may not obtain the expected benefits or cost savings from the Rutland acquisition or any other acquisition. Further, acquisitions are subject to risks associated with financing the acquisition and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or assets. If any of these risks materialize, they may result in disruptions to Lawson’s business and the diversion of management time and attention, which could increase the costs of operating the Company’s existing or acquired businesses or negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions. A slowdown in the economy could negatively impact Lawson’s sales and earnings. General economic conditions affect Lawson’s customers and its sales opportunities. In general, the Company’s sales represent spending on consumption needs by the Company’s customers. This spending is affected by many factors, including, among others: general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, taxation, fuel prices and electrical power rates, unemployment trends, terrorist attacks and acts of war, and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Additionally, in the event of an economic downturn, Lawson could experience customer bankruptcies, reduced volume of business from its existing customers and lost volume due to customer plant shutdowns or consolidations. An economic or other situation that affects government and tax-supported entities could negatively impact Lawson’s sales and earnings. The Company sells to numerous government and tax supported entities. Any situation that impacts these funded entities or the Company’s ability to sell to these entities could have a material adverse effect on the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 