ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Lawson’s business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us and described below may negatively affect our business operations or affect our financial results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations or affect our financial results. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by a downturn in the economy. During 2008 and 2009, we experienced the effects of a severe economic recession in the U.S. and world economies and a tightening of the credit markets. Although the economy has stabilized and improved somewhat in 2010 and 2011, we cannot predict the continued strength of a recovery. Any future economic decline and uncertainty may lead to a further decrease in customer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. Some of our customers may file for bankruptcy protection, preventing us from collecting on accounts receivable and may result in our stocking excess customer specific inventory. Continued contraction in the credit markets may also cause some of our customers to experience difficulties in obtaining financing, leading to lower sales, delays in the collection of receivables or result in an increase in bad debt expense. Adverse economic conditions could also affect our key suppliers, hindering their ability to supply parts and result in delays of our customer shipments. Economic uncertainty can make it difficult for us to accurately predict future order activity and affect our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and identify risks that may affect our business. Our ability to finance our operations by borrowing through our current credit agreement could also be at risk if the lender is unable to provide funds under the terms of the agreement due to a bankruptcy or a restructuring. There are no assurances that we would be able to establish alternative financing or attain financing with terms similar to our present credit agreement. The market price of our common stock may decline. Our stock price could decrease if our financial performance is inadequate or does not meet investors’ expectations, if there is deterioration in the overall market for equities, large amounts of shares are sold in the market or if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements are negatively impacted by an economic downturn. A decrease in the price of our stock may reflect a lower market value of our net assets compared to book value, indicating our assets are impaired. A significant portion of our inventory may become obsolete. Our business strategy requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory in order to meet rapid processing of customer orders. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in inventory levels exceeding the levels demanded by customers or should our customers decrease their orders with us, our operating results could be adversely affected due to costs of carrying the inventory and additional inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory. Work stoppages and other disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect our ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to our customers. Our ability to rapidly process customer orders is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Interruptions at our company operated facilities or disruptions at a major transportation center or shipping port, due to events such as severe weather, labor interruptions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other events, could affect both our ability to maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We will also face a risk of service disruptions during the transition of our Addison, Des Plaines and Vernon Hills, Illinois operations into the new McCook facility. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. 10 Table of Contents Changes in our customers, product mix and pricing strategy could cause our gross margin percentage to decline in the future. From time to time, we have experienced changes in product mix and inventory costs. When our product mix changes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross profit margins. Changes in our customers, product mix, volume of orders or the prices charged could cause our gross profit margin percentage to decline. Increases in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins. Increases in the cost of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel) and energy costs raise the production costs of our vendors. Those vendors typically look to pass the higher costs along to us through price increases. If we are unable to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities, the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating profit margins. Disruptions of our information and communication systems could adversely affect the Company. We depend on our information and communication systems to process orders, purchase and manage inventory, maintain cost-effective operations, sell and ship products, manage accounts receivable collections and service our customers. Disruptions in the operation of information and communication systems can occur due to a variety of factors including power outages, hardware failure, programming faults and human error. Any disruption in the operation of our information and communication systems whether over a short or an extended period of time or affecting one or multiple distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The inability of management to successfully implement major strategic initiatives, could result in significant disruptions in the Company’s operations and increase our costs. We have committed to developing and executing three major strategic initiatives to strengthen our core MRO operations which we believe will significantly enhance our ability to better serve our customers and improve our business. The initiatives are expected to transform our current sales channels, optimize our supply network and replace our legacy information systems with an ERP system. In 2011 we completed a major phase of the ERP implementation and we took further steps to transform our sales channels. In 2012, among other undertakings, we plan to continue to implement further phases of our ERP system, transition our Addison, Des Plaines and Vernon Hills, Illinois operations to the new McCook facility, launch a redesigned website and migrate our independent sales representatives to employee sales representatives. These initiatives involve a large investment of capital and resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. Failure to properly implement one or more of these initiatives could result in disruptions in our operations, loss of business and increased costs. Failure to manage changes within the organization We are undergoing significant change including the opening of a new distribution center, relocation of our headquarters, completion of the ERP implementation, launch of a redesigned website and the transition of our independent sales representative model to one that increases productivity and is more market oriented. During the second half of 2011, we implemented a pilot program and hired approximately 40 employee sales representatives. We believe having control over which customers the employee sales representatives contact, the frequency of sales calls, the products that are promoted, the prices that are charged and the sales methods that are used could result in higher productivity. These initiatives, and other changes, could impact our business model and affect the culture of our organization to emphasize continuous improvements, be results driven and focused on our end customer. Failure to manage through these changes could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Failure to retain talented employees, managers and executives could negatively impact our operating results. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers. The loss of certain key executives and managers, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to retain experienced and productive sales representatives could negatively impact our operating results. Our MRO sales are primarily driven by sales representatives. Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of talented, experienced and productive sales representatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. One stockholder controls the voting rights of approximately 45% of the Company’s outstanding shares. At December 31, 2011, members of the Port family collectively beneficially owned approximately 45% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In March 2011, in connection with the settlement of litigation between certain members of the Port family, Dr. Port received a proxy to vote the shares held by the members of the Port family until June 2012, other than in connection with votes on mergers and certain other extraordinary corporate transactions. As a result, Dr. Port has sole voting power of approximately 45% of the Company’s outstanding shares, which effectively permits him to control stockholder votes concerning the removal and election of directors. The interests of Dr. Port may differ from those of other stockholders. In addition, in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission a member of the Port family, controlling approximately a third of the family’s interest, has indicated that she intends to sell her shares. Given the low historic trading volume of our common stock, such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. The Company operates in highly competitive markets. Our marketplace, although consolidating, still includes large, fragmented industries which are highly competitive. We believe that customers and competitors may continue to consolidate over the next few years, which may make the industry even more competitive. Our competitors include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources and we believe they will continue to challenge the marketplace with their product selection, financial resources, and services. Future acquisitions are subject to integration and other risks. We anticipate that we may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses or assets. Acquisitions are accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may not obtain the expected benefits or cost savings from acquisitions. Acquisitions are subject to risks associated with financing the acquisition and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or assets. If any of these risks materialize, they may result in disruptions to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, which could increase the costs of operating our existing or acquired businesses or negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions. Failure to meet the covenant requirements of our credit agreement could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions and reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds. From time to time we fund our operations from funds borrowed under the terms of our credit agreement. The credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, including minimum tangible net worth levels, a minimum cash, accounts receivable and inventory-to-debt ratio, a minimum debt service coverage ratio and minimum quarterly EBITDA levels. The credit agreement also contains other customary representations, warranties, covenants and events of default. Any failure to meet these covenant requirements could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions and reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds. 12 Table of Contents Changes that affect governmental and other tax-supported entities could negatively impact our sales and earnings. A portion of our sales are derived from the United States military and other governmental and tax supported entities. These entities are largely dependent upon government budgets and require adherence to certain laws and regulations. A decrease in the levels of defense and other governmental spending or the introduction of more stringent governmental regulations and oversight could lead to reduced sales or an increase in compliance costs which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Any violation of Federal, state or local environmental protection regulations could lead to significant penalties and fines. Our product offering includes a wide variety of industrial chemicals and other products which are subject to a multitude of Federal, state and local regulations. These environmental protection laws change frequently and affect the composition, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of the products. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to severe penalties and fines for each violation. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in taxation. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in tax rates, audits by taxing authorities or changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations could also affect our ability to realize the deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which could affect our results of operations. We are currently the subject of an employment tax examination which could result in a negative settlement. One of our subsidiaries, Drummond American LLC (“Drummond”) is under an employment tax examination for the years 2007 and 2008 of the long-standing treatment of its sales representatives as independent contractors. In January 2012 we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment in the amount of $9.5 million, including penalties, from the IRS challenging Drummond’s position that the sales representatives were independent contractors. Although we intend to vigorously defend our position for the treatment of the sales representatives as independent contractors, we established a liability of $1.2 million as our best estimate of the cost to resolve the matter. An unfavorable outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 13 Table of Contents 