ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, the following factors should be considered in evaluating Lawson’s business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us and described below may negatively affect our business operations or affect our financial results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations or affect our financial results. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by a downturn in the worldwide economy. During 2008 and 2009, we experienced the effects of a severe economic recession in the U.S. and world economies and a tightening of the credit markets. Although the economy has stabilized and improved somewhat in 2010, we cannot predict the continued strength of a recovery. Any future economic decline and uncertainty may lead to a further decrease in customer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. Some of our customers may file for bankruptcy protection preventing us from collecting on accounts receivable and may result in our stocking excess customer specific inventory. Continued contraction in the credit markets may also cause some of our customers to experience difficulties in obtaining financing leading to lower sales, delays in the collection of receivables or result in an increase in bad debt expense. Adverse economic conditions could also affect our key suppliers, hindering their ability to supply parts and result in delays of our customer shipments. Economic uncertainty can make it difficult for us to accurately predict future order activity and affect our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and identify risks that may affect our business. Our ability to finance our operations by borrowing through our current credit agreement could also be at risk if the lender is unable to provide funds under the terms of the agreement due to a bankruptcy or a restructuring. There are no assurances that we would be able to establish alternative financing or attain financing with terms similar to our present credit agreement. The market price of our common stock may decline. Our stock price could decrease if there is deterioration in the overall market for equities or if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements are negatively impacted by an economic downturn. A decrease in our stock price reduces the market value of the Company compared to the book value of our net assets, which may lead to impairment of our assets. A significant portion of our inventory may become obsolete. Our business strategy requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory in order to meet rapid processing of customer orders. If our inventory forecasting and production planning processes result in inventory levels exceeding the levels demanded by customers or should our customers decrease their orders with us, our operating results could be adversely affected due to costs of carrying the inventory and additional inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory. Work stoppages and other disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect our ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to our customers. Our ability to rapidly process customer orders is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Interruptions at our company operated facilities or disruptions at a major transportation center or shipping port, due to events such as severe weather, labor interruptions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other events, could affect both our ability to maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. Changes in our customers and product mix could cause our gross margin percentage to decline in the future. From time to time, we have experienced changes in product mix and inventory costs. When our product mix changes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross profit margins. Changes in our customers, product mix, or the volume of orders could cause our gross profit margin percentage to decline. 10 Table of Contents Increases in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins. Increases in the cost of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel) and energy costs raise the production costs of our vendors. Those vendors typically look to pass the higher costs along to us through price increases. If we are unable to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities, the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating profit margins. Disruptions of our information and communication systems could adversely affect the Company. We depend on our information and communication systems to process orders, purchase and manage inventory, maintain cost-effective operations, sell and ship products, manage accounts receivable collections and service our customers. Disruptions in the operation of information and communication systems can occur due to a variety of factors including power outages, hardware failure, programming faults and human error. Any disruption in the operation of our information and communication systems whether over a short or an extended period of time or affecting one or multiple distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The inability of management to successfully implement strategic initiatives, including the installation of a new ERP system, could result in significant disruptions in the Company’s operations and increase our costs. We have committed to developing and executing three major strategic initiatives to strengthen our core MRO operations which we believe will significantly enhance our ability to better serve our customers and improve our business. The initiatives are expected to transform our current sales organization, optimize our supply network and replace our legacy information systems with an ERP system. We plan to complete the Realization, Final Preparation, and Go Live phases in the new ERP system throughout 2011. These initiatives involve a large investment of capital and resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. Failure to properly implement one or more of these initiatives could result in disruptions in our operations, loss of business and increased costs. Failure to manage changes within the organization We are undergoing significant change including the implementation of a new ERP system, the transition of its district sales managers to full-time employees, various business policy changes, introducing new sales channels and focus segments, and other changes that could impact our business model. These changes will impact the culture of the organization to emphasize continuous improvements, being results driven and an increased focus on our end customer. Failure to manage through these changes with our team could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Failure to retain talented employees, managers and executives could negatively impact our operating results. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers. The loss of certain key executives and managers, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to retain experienced and productive sales agents could negatively impact our operating results. Our MRO sales are primarily driven by a force of approximately 1,100 independent sales agents. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented sales representatives. Failure to retain a sufficient number of experienced and productive sales agents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents A limited number of the Company’s stockholders can exert significant influence over the Company. Members of the Port family collectively beneficially own over 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This share ownership would permit these stockholders, if they chose to act together, to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of the Port family may differ from those of other stockholders. In March 2009, a member of the Port family announced her intention to divest all of the common stock under her control and encourage the disposition of the shares of common stock over which she has shared voting or dispositive power. If a transaction cannot be arranged, the Port family member announced she may seek to replace some or all of the Company’s directors, replace some or all of the Company’s management and reduce the size of the Company’s board of directors to five. Another member of the Port family announced he may consider a sale or other disposition of some or all of the shares over which he has shared voting or dispositive power. These transactions could disrupt and adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Any breach of our Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “DPA”) in August 2008 with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois (the “U.S. Attorney’s Office”) to resolve our liability for the actions of our representatives in improperly providing gifts or awards to purchasing agents through our then-existing customer loyalty programs. Under the terms of the DPA, if it is determined that we deliberately gave false, incomplete or misleading information under the DPA or have committed any federal crimes subsequent to the DPA, or otherwise knowingly, intentionally, and materially violated any provision of the DPA, we may be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which the U.S. Attorney’s Office has knowledge. The Company continues to comply with the terms of the DPA which expires in August 2011. The Company operates in highly competitive markets. Our marketplace, although consolidating, still includes large, fragmented industries which are highly competitive. We believe that customers and competitors may continue to consolidate over the next few years, which may make the industry even more competitive. Our competitors include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources and we believe they will continue to challenge the marketplace with their product selection, financial resources, and services. Future acquisitions are subject to integration and other risks. We anticipate that we may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses or assets. Acquisitions are accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may not obtain the expected benefits or cost savings from acquisitions. Acquisitions are subject to risks associated with financing the acquisition and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or assets. If any of these risks materialize, they may result in disruptions to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, which could increase the costs of operating our existing or acquired businesses or negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions. Failure to meet the covenant requirements of our credit agreement could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions and reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds. From time to time we fund our operations from funds borrowed under the terms of our credit agreement. The credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, including minimum EBITDA, minimum tangible net worth levels, a minimum cash, accounts receivable and inventory to debt ratio and a minimum debt service coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains other customary representations, warranties, covenants and events of default. Any failure to meet these covenant requirements could lead to higher financing costs, increased restrictions and reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow funds. 12 Table of Contents Changes that affect governmental and other tax-supported entities could negatively impact our sales and earnings. A portion of our sales are derived from the United States military and other governmental and tax supported entities. These entities are largely dependent upon government budgets and require adherence to certain laws and regulations. A decrease in the levels of defense and other governmental spending or the introduction of more stringent governmental regulations and oversight could lead to reduced sales or an increase in compliance costs which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Any violation of Federal, state or local environmental protection regulations could lead to significant penalties and fines. Our product offering includes a wide variety of industrial chemicals and other products which are subject to a multitude of Federal, state and local regulations. These environmental protection laws change frequently and affect the composition, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of the products. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to severe penalties and fines for each violation. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in taxation. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in tax rates, audits by taxing authorities or changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations could also affect our ability to realize the deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which could affect our results of operations. The Company is under an employment tax examination for the years 2007 and 2008 of the long-standing treatment by a Company subsidiary of its sales agents as independent contractors. An unfavorable outcome of this examination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 