Item 1a. Risk Factors. Risk factors related to our business Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. We are significantly leveraged. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness and certain other information as of November 2, 2006: (In millions) As of November 2, 2006 Senior secured credit facility Revolving credit facility(1) $ 12.6 Term loan 15.0 10 ½% senior unsecured notes 126.5 Unamortized original issue discount (1.0 ) Capitalized leases 0.2 Other debt 0.8 Total indebtedness (2) $ 154.1 Stockholders’ equity $ 63.3 (1) Does not include $7.4 million of outstanding letters of credit that were issued under the senior secured revolving credit facility as of November 2, 2006. We are able to borrow under the senior secured revolving credit facility the lesser of (a) $30.0 million and (b) 1.2 times trailing twelve months Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit facility) minus the original principal amount of our senior secured term loan. As of November 2, 2006, we had the ability to borrow the full $30 million, less the amount of outstanding letters of credit under the senior secured revolving credit facility, or $10.0 million. (2) Does not include deemed landlord financing liability. Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: · it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, new restaurant development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; · a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; · the debt service requirements of our other indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; · certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; · it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. 10 We may have difficulty implementing our expansion strategy. Our ability to open new restaurants is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our ability to: · find suitable locations; · reach acceptable agreements regarding the lease or purchase of prospective locations for our restaurants; · comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations; · raise or have available an adequate amount of money for construction and opening costs; · hire, train and retain the skilled management and other employees necessary to meet staffing needs in a timely and cost-effective manner; · obtain required permits and approvals; and · efficiently manage the amount of time and money used to build and open each new restaurant. Historically, there is a “ramp-up” period of time before a new restaurant location achieves its targeted level of performance. This phenomenon is due to higher operating costs caused by start-up and other temporary inefficiencies associated with opening new restaurants, such as lack of market familiarity and acceptance when we enter new markets and lack of experienced staff. We may not be able to attract enough customers to new restaurants because potential customers may be unfamiliar with our restaurants or our restaurants’ atmosphere or menus might not appeal to them. We may not be able to open new restaurants profitably, which could negatively affect our growth strategy. We have historically added, and plan to continue to add, new restaurants through new construction, acquisitions and conversions. We have traditionally used cash flow from operations and sale-leaseback transactions as the primary funding sources for additional restaurants. We cannot guarantee that our cash flows will be sufficient to achieve the desired development levels if our revenues, profitability or cash flow from operations decline. Opening a new restaurant in an existing market also could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. Our restaurants may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Price, restaurant location, food quality and type, service and attractiveness of facilities are important aspects of competition in the restaurant industry, and the competitive environment is often affected by factors beyond a particular restaurant management’s control, including changes in the public’s taste and eating habits, population, traffic patterns and general economic conditions. Competitive pressures may have the effect of limiting our ability to increase prices, which may adversely affect our operating earnings. This competitive environment makes it more difficult for us to continue to provide high levels of service while maintaining our reputation for value without adversely affecting operating margins. Additionally, to the extent we raise prices, our customer traffic may decline. Our restaurants compete with a large number of other restaurants, including national and regional restaurant chains and franchised restaurant operations, as well as independently owned restaurants, for customers, restaurant locations, qualified management and other restaurant staff. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition, the restaurant industry has few non-economic barriers to entry, and therefore new competitors may emerge at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future, and competition may have a material adverse effect on our operations. The success of our restaurants is highly dependent on their location. The success of our company-operated and franchised restaurants is significantly influenced by location. There can be no assurance that our current locations will continue to be attractive, as demographic patterns change and the economic conditions where our restaurants are located could change. The success of new restaurants that we open will be substantially dependent on the locations that we select and the availability of desirable locations. 11 We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We depend on frequent deliveries of fresh ingredients, thereby subjecting us to the risk of shortages or interruptions in supply. Fluctuations in economic and political conditions, weather and demand could adversely affect the cost of our ingredients. Our efforts to pass along price increases may be subject to delays associated with our cycle of updating our menus. We have no control over fluctuations in the price of commodities, and we may be unable to pass through cost increases to our customers. For example, we did not pass on to our customers the 75% increase in the price of eggs (one of our largest food costs) which occurred during the 2004 fiscal year. We currently do not enter into futures contracts with respect to potential price fluctuations in the cost of food and other supplies, which we purchase at prevailing market or contracted prices. Although we at times enter into arrangements locking in the price of certain ingredients for a specified period of time, we typically do not rely on long-term written contracts with our suppliers. Our suppliers could implement significant price increases. All of these factors could adversely affect our financial results. We depend heavily on our suppliers and distributors. We currently purchase our raw materials from various suppliers. Most of our suppliers drop-ship directly to our pie production facilities. Our reliance on our suppliers subjects us to a number of risks, including possible delays or interruptions in delivery of supplies, diminished control over quality and a potential lack of adequate raw material capacity. If any of these suppliers do not perform adequately or otherwise fail to distribute products or supplies to our restaurants or pie production facilities, we may be unable to replace the suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms. For example, labor disputes at any of our suppliers could result in those suppliers being unable to provide us with raw materials or supplies that we depend upon to run our business. Our inability to replace the suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms could increase our costs and could cause shortages at our restaurants or pie production facilities of food and other items. We depend on our distribution system to distribute our food products to our restaurant locations. If there is any disruption in our distribution system, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Food-borne illness incidents, claims of food-borne illness and adverse publicity could reduce our restaurant sales. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry, and a number of these claims may exist at any given time. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Some food-borne illness incidents could be caused by third-party food suppliers and transporters outside of our control. New illnesses resistant to our current precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, such as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (also known as Mad Cow Disease), that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from food quality or handling claims at one or more of our restaurants. Food-borne illnesses spread at restaurants have generated significant negative publicity at other restaurant chains in the past, which has had a negative impact on their results of operations. One or more instances of food-borne illness in one of our restaurants could negatively affect our restaurants’ image and sales. These risks exist even if it were later determined that an illness was wrongly attributed to one of our restaurants. In addition, the impact of adverse publicity relating to one of our restaurants may extend beyond that restaurant to affect some or all of our other restaurants. The risk of negative publicity is particularly great with respect to our franchised restaurants because we have limited ability to control their operations, especially on a real-time basis. A similar risk exists with respect to unrelated food service businesses if customers mistakenly associate them with our operations. We face the risk of litigation in connection with our operations. We are from time to time the subject of complaints or litigation from our consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately held liable. In addition, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination or wage, rest break and meal break issues, including those relating to overtime compensation, may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. We have been subject to such claims from time to time. We settled two class action claims in California related to overtime and wage payments in June 2005 for an aggregate 12 payment of up to $6.5 million, subject to the following partial indemnification. We filed a suit in December 2004 in Cook County, Illinois, seeking indemnification for damages related to this litigation under the Purchase Agreement dated June 14, 2003, pursuant to which VICORP Restaurants, Inc., was acquired, in addition to assertion of other claims. The former shareholders of Midway Investors Holdings Inc. filed a similar action in December 2004 in Superior Court in Massachusetts. Through our parent company, VI Acquisition Corp., an agreement to settle claims brought in both of these actions was finalized and VI Acquisition Corp. received a settlement payment in December 2005 of $2.65 million. The ultimate cost to settle the two class actions was reduced to $5.3 million. We are currently defendants in two class action claims in California. The first class action was brought in March 2006 by two former managers and alleges that we violated California law with regard to unpaid overtime, compensation for missed meals and rest periods, civil penalties for failure to provide itemized wage statements, failure to provide notice on paychecks where paychecks may be cashed without any fees, and unfair business practices. The classes and subclasses alleged in the action have not been certified by the court at the current stage of the litigation but generally are claimed to be persons who have been employed since February 1, 2005, in the position of restaurant managers, persons who have been employed in California since March 15, 2002, in any capacity who received a payroll check in California, and all restaurant managers who have ended their employment with VICORP prior to the effective date of any settlement, judgment, or other resolution of the action. No dollar amount in damages is requested in the Complaint and the Complaint seeks statutory damages, and attorneys’ fees in an unspecified amount. The second class action was brought in April 2006 by a former employee and alleges that VICORP violated California laws with regard to failure to pay vested vacation pay and unfair business practices. The class alleged is any person who has been employed by us in California at any time from four years prior to the filing of the class action to date of trial. No dollar amount in damages is requested in the Complaint and the Complaint seeks attorneys’ fees in an unspecified amount. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, The Company established a liability of $600,000 relating to this action. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of our business and weather conditions. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that may vary depending upon the region in which a particular restaurant is located. In addition, the sales of our pies typically increase during holiday periods, in particular during November and December of each year, and decrease significantly following holiday periods. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Adverse weather conditions can also negatively impact our financial results. For example, unusually cold temperatures or above-average rainfall tends to adversely affect sales in affected markets. These fluctuations can make it more difficult for us to predict accurately and address in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business. We may incur additional costs or liabilities and lose revenues and profits as a result of government regulation. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food, the sale of alcoholic beverages, the use of tobacco, zoning and building codes, land use and employee, health, sanitation and safety matters. One or more of our restaurants could be subject to litigation and governmental fine, censure or closure in connection with issues relating to our food and/or our facilities. Our franchise operations are also subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission. We and our franchisees must also comply with state franchising laws and a wide range of other state and local rules and regulations applicable to our business. The failure to comply with federal, state and local rules and regulations could impair our ability to continue operating our business. All of our restaurants located in California and some of our restaurants in the Midwest sell beer and wine. Typically, each restaurant’s license to sell alcoholic beverages must be renewed annually and may be suspended or revoked at any time for cause. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to various aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control, handling and storage. Our restaurants that sell beer and wine are also subject to “dram shop” laws, which allow a person to sue us if that person was injured by a legally intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. A judgment against us under a dram shop law could exceed our liability insurance coverage policy limits and could result in substantial liability for us and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. To the extent that governmental regulations impose material additional obligations on our suppliers, including, without limitation, regulations relating to the inspection or preparation of meat, food and other products used in our business, product availability could be limited and the prices that our suppliers charge us could increase. The costs of operating our restaurants 13 may also increase if there are changes in laws and regulations such as those governing access for the disabled, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. If any of these costs increased and we were unable to offset the increase by increasing our menu prices or by other means, we would generate lower profits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See “Business—Governmental regulation.” We may be locked into long-term and non-cancelable leases that we want to cancel, and may be unable to renew leases that we want to extend at the end of their terms. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from 15 to 20 years and renewal options for terms ranging from five to 20 years. It is likely that leases we enter into in the future will also be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. If we close a restaurant, we may remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. As of November 2, 2006, we were responsible for lease payments at 4 closed restaurant locations. Additionally, the potential losses associated with our inability to cancel leases may result in our keeping open restaurant locations that are performing significantly below targeted levels. As a result, ongoing lease operations at closed or underperforming restaurant locations could impair our results of operations. In addition, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. As a result, we may be required to close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changing consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns could have an adverse effect on our business. Food service businesses are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. Factors such as traffic patterns, local demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants may adversely affect the performance of individual locations. In addition, inflation and increased food and energy costs may harm the restaurant industry in general and our locations in particular. Adverse changes in any of these factors could reduce consumer traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, which could harm our business. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and economic conditions. The success of our restaurants is significantly influenced by the attractiveness and condition of our facilities. We periodically update the exterior and interior of our locations. If we temporarily close a restaurant for renovation, we will lose the revenue that the restaurant would otherwise receive had it remained open. In addition, renovated restaurants may also experience a significant reduction in revenue after they reopen if our existing customers change their dining habits as a result of the temporary closing of the restaurants. In addition, our business may be adversely affected by laws restricting smoking in restaurants, particularly in areas where smoking is only allowed in restaurants that serve alcohol, since most of our restaurants do not serve alcohol. Adverse changes involving any of these factors could further reduce our guest traffic and impose practical limits on pricing, which could further reduce our revenues and operating income. If we make acquisitions in the future, we may experience assimilation problems and dissipation of management resources, and we may need to incur additional indebtedness. Our future growth may be a function, in part, of acquisitions of other restaurants. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the operational and financial risks commonly encountered with that type of a strategy. We would also face operational risks, such as failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting our ongoing business, dissipating our limited management resources and impairing relationships with employees and customers of the acquired business as a result of changes in ownership and management. Additionally, we may incur additional indebtedness to finance future acquisitions, as permitted under our senior secured credit facility and our indenture, in which case we would also face certain financial risks associated with the incurrence of this indebtedness, such as reductions in our liquidity, access to capital markets and financial stability. Any prolonged disruption in our pie manufacturing business could harm our business. We operate three pie manufacturing plants which produce pies for Bakers Square and Village Inn as well as third-party customers. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of these plants, whether as a result of technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage to the facilities or other reasons, could result in increased costs and reduced revenues, and 14 our relationships with third-party customers could be harmed. We rely in part on our franchisees. We rely in part on our Village Inn franchisees and the manner in which they operate their locations to develop, promote and operate our Village Inn business. Our Village Inn franchises generated revenues to us of $5.1 million during the 2006 fiscal year. Although we have developed criteria to evaluate and screen prospective franchisees, there can be no assurance that franchisees will have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to operate successful franchises in their franchise areas. The failure of franchisees to operate franchises successfully could have a material adverse effect on Village Inn’s reputation and its brands. While we try to ensure that the quality of the Village Inn brand is maintained by all of our franchisees, franchisees could take actions that adversely affect the value of our intellectual property or reputation. We could face labor shortages that could slow our growth and increase our labor costs. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, in quantities sufficient to keep pace with our expansion schedule and meet the needs of our existing restaurants. A sufficient number of qualified individuals of the requisite caliber to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. Any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants and could adversely impact our existing restaurants. Any such delays, any material increases in employee turnover rates in existing restaurants or any widespread employee dissatisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, any labor disruption resulting from unionization efforts or otherwise could result in increased costs and reduced revenues. In 2003, employees at one of our pie manufacturing facilities conducted an election to unionize our workforce of 138 employees at that facility. This effort was unsuccessful; however, future unionization efforts could result in our being subject to collective bargaining agreements that are on terms that are not as economically attractive as our current arrangements with our employees. Changes in employment laws may adversely affect our business. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime and tip credits, working conditions, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates and citizenship requirements. Significant additional government-imposed increases in the following areas could materially affect our results of operations: · minimum wages; · mandated health benefits; · paid leaves of absence; · tax reporting; or · revisions in the tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities. We may not be able to protect our trademarks, service marks, logos and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks, service marks, logos and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we protect our trademarks, service marks, logos and proprietary rights. However, the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products and concepts by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks, service marks, logos and proprietary rights by us. In addition, our intellectual property rights may not have the value that we believe they have. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights, or if another party prevails in litigation against us relating to our intellectual property rights, we may incur significant costs and may be required to change certain aspects of our operations. We face risks associated with environmental laws. We are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that: 15 · govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes; and · impose liability for the costs of cleaning up, and certain damages resulting from, sites of past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. In particular, under applicable environmental laws, we may be responsible for remediation of environmental conditions and may be subject to associated liabilities resulting from lawsuits brought by private litigants, relating to our restaurants and the land on which our restaurants are located, regardless of whether we lease or own the restaurants or land in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant. Some of our properties are located on or adjacent to sites that we know or suspect to have been used by prior owners or operators as retail gas stations or industrial facilities. Such properties previously contained underground storage tanks, and some of these properties may currently contain abandoned underground storage tanks. It is possible that petroleum products and other contaminants may have been released at or migrated beneath our properties into or through the soil or groundwater. Under applicable federal and state environmental laws, we, as the current owner or operator of these sites, may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of any contamination. If we are found liable for the costs of remediation of contamination at any of these properties, our operating expenses would likely increase and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Environmental conditions relating to our prior, existing or future restaurants or restaurant sites could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of whom could materially harm our business. Our senior executives are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. See “Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.” We are controlled by affiliates of Wind Point. As a result of their control of VI Acquisition Corp., which is our parent, investment funds affiliated with Wind Point have the power to elect a majority of our directors, to appoint members of management, to approve all actions requiring the approval of the holders of our common stock, including adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers, acquisitions or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, and to direct our operations. The interests of Wind Point may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our other equity holders and the holders of our indebtedness. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Wind Point as a holder of equity might conflict with the interests of our other equity holders and the holders of our indebtedness. Wind Point also may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to other equity holders and the holders of our indebtedness. We have two independent directors (as defined under the federal securities laws) on our Board of Directors and, as a result, our Board of Directors and Audit Committee have not met, and do not meet, the standard “independence” requirements that would be applicable if our equity securities were traded on the NASDAQ National Market or the New York Stock Exchange. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 