Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s financial and operating results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global petrochemical and mining businesses (due to our investment in AMAK). Many of these risk factors are not within the Company’s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and operating results or our financial condition. We discuss some of those risks in more detail below. Use of single source suppliers for raw materials could create supply issues The Company’s use of single source suppliers for certain raw materials could create supply issues. Replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. The loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied raw materials by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. Dependence on a limited number of customers could adversely impact profitability During 2008 and 2009, sales to each of two customers by the Petrochemical Company minimally exceeded 10 percent or more of the Company’s revenues. The loss of either of these two customers could adversely affect the Petrochemical Company’s ability to market its products on a competitive basis and generate a profit. 13 Varying economic conditions could adversely impact demand for products The demand for petrochemicals and metals correlates closely with general economic growth rates. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of low or negative growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world or in a major region, such as changes in population growth rates or periods of civil unrest, also impact the demand for petrochemicals and metals. Economic conditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and institutions also pose risks to the Company, including risks to the safety of our financial assets and to the ability of our partners and customers to fulfill their commitments to the Company. In addition, the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes future financial results less predictable. The Company’s revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products, customer groups and geographic markets; and therefore, will likely be different in future periods than currently. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period’s net revenue. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures. Market trends, competitive pressures, increased raw material or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. Environmental regulation The petrochemical industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal and state regulations. Such environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste. Legislation also requires us to operate and maintain our facilities to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Costs to comply with these regulations are significant to our business. Failure to comply with these laws or failure to obtain permits may expose us to fines, penalties or interruptions in operations that could be material to our results of operations. Regulatory and litigation Even in countries with well-developed legal systems where the Company does business, we remain exposed to changes in law that could adversely affect our results, such as increases in taxes, price controls, changes in environmental regulations or other laws that increase our cost of compliance, and government actions to cancel contracts or renegotiate items unilaterally. We may also be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or other legal proceedings, especially in countries such as the United States in which very large and unpredictable punitive damage awards may occur. AMAK’s mining lease for the Al Masane area in Saudi Arabia is subject to the risk of termination if AMAK does not comply with its contractual obligations. Further, our foreign investments in assets are subject to the risk of expropriation or nationalization. If a dispute arises, the Company may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or panel or may have to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or panel in that foreign jurisdiction. Because of our substantial international investments, our business is affected by changes in foreign laws and regulations (or interpretation of existing laws and regulations) affecting both the mining and petrochemical industries, and foreign taxation. The Company will be directly affected by the adoption of rules and regulations (and the interpretations of such rules and regulations) regarding 14 the exploration and development of mineral properties for economic, environmental and other policy reasons. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with non-U.S. governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or may significantly limit our business activities. Additionally, the Company’s ability to compete in the international market may be adversely affected by non-U.S. governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of leases, concessions and other contracts or exploration licenses to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. We are not currently aware of any specific situations of this nature, but there are always opportunities for this type of difficulty to arise in the international business environment. Loss of key personnel In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, and marketing positions. We must also keep employees focused on our strategies and goals. The failure to hire or loss of key employees could have a significant adverse impact on operations. Market place volatility The Company’s stock price, like that of other companies, can be volatile. Some of the factors that can affect our stock price are: • Speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our executive team, strategic position, business, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, prospects or extraordinary transactions; • Announcements of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by the Company or competitors; and • Quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin or earnings, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by the Company, and variations between actual and estimated financial results. General or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance may also affect the price of our common stock. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, following periods of volatility in a company’s securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. If instituted against us, this type of litigation, while insured against monetary awards and defense cost, could result in substantial diversion of management’s time and resources. Risk associated with extraordinary transactions As part of the Company’s business strategy, we sometimes engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and 15 outsourcing transactions (“extraordinary transactions”) and enter into agreements relating to such extraordinary transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete extraordinary transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of extraordinary transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If the Company fails to identify and complete successfully extraordinary transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, gross margin and profitability. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include: • Combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; • Convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; • Minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • Persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company’s non-U.S. employees, integrating employees into the Company, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; • Coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; • Achieving savings from supply chain integration; and • Managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. The Company periodically evaluates and enters into significant extraordinary transactions on an ongoing basis. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any extraordinary transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of an extraordinary transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for extraordinary transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. Managing extraordinary transactions requires 16 varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These extraordinary transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings. Moreover, the Company has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with extraordinary transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with an extraordinary transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders, or borrow, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. Any prior or future downgrades in the Company’s credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, the Company’s effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and extraordinary transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing an extraordinary transaction and the risk that an announced extraordinary transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter. Economic and Political Instability; Terrorist Acts; War and Other Political Unrest The U.S. military action in Iraq and Afganistan, the terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001, the potential for additional future terrorist acts and other recent events, including terrorist related activities and civil unrest in Yemen, have caused uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and have significantly increased global political, economic and social instability, including in Saudi Arabia, a country in which we have substantial interests. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad, and such acts of terrorism could be directed against our investment in those locations. Such economic and political uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition also could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: • Ongoing instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • Longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; • Trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; • Local labor conditions and regulations; 17 • Geographically dispersed workforce; • Changes in the regulatory or legal environment; • Differing technology standards or customer requirements; • Import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for labor and raw materials or lead to penalties or restrictions; • Difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and • Fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. Currency fluctuations Currency variations also contribute to fluctuations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States. Business disruption Business disruptions could harm the Company’s future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for some of which we may be self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our revenue and financial condition and increase its costs and expenses. Lack of mining management expertise Neither management nor Board members have personally operated a mine on a day to day basis, nor have they marketed the product of a mining operation. The Company is relying on AMAK, that management of AMAK, and its Board will employ various respected engineering and financial advisors to assist in the development and evaluation of the mining projects in Saudi Arabia. The consultants most currently used to develop the JORC compliant feasibility study of the Al Masane project are Watts, Griffis, and McQuat of Toronto, Canada. The Company and AMAK also use the services of Adrian Molinari of Toronto, Canada and Behre Dolbear of London, England for ongoing guidance regarding cash flows and other items to evaluate the feasibility of the project. The amount of risk will ultimately depend upon the AMAK’s ability to use consultants and experienced personnel to manage the operation in Saudi Arabia. Inability to significantly influence AMAK activities The Company does not have the ability to significantly influence AMAK activities for a number of reasons including disputed terms of organizational documents which diluted our ownership 18 percentage, inability to persuade the remaining board members regarding certain management decisions, lack of control at the board of director level, cultural differences, differing accounting and management practices, differing governmental laws and regulations, and the fact that the AMAK mining project is halfway around the world from the Company’s main base of operations in the United States. AMAK’s inability to obtain sufficient funding In the event AMAK is unable to borrow funds in an amount sufficient to complete and pay for the remaining portions of construction, AMAK may be forced to take other less desirable methods to raise necessary capital such as selling additional equity in AMAK at a possible discount, construction could come to a halt and the newly constructed assets could sit unused and deteriorate over time, or worst case the AMAK shareholders could lose their investment or be forced to sell for a significant loss. AMAK’s inability to obtain additional mining leases In the event AMAK is unable obtain additional mining leases, there would be a loss of future opportunities but the effect on our current investment is not expected to be a significant. Cancellation of the current mining lease held by AMAK In the event that the Saudi Ministry cancels the current lease, AMAK shareholders including the Company could lose their investment or be forced to sell for a loss. Intense competition The Company competes in the petrochemical industry. Accordingly, we are subject to intense competition among a large number of companies, both larger and smaller than us, many of which have financial capability, facilities, personnel and other resources greater than us. In the specialty products and solvents markets, the Petrochemical Company has one principal competitor in North America, ConocoPhillips. Multiple competitors exist when searching for new business in other parts of the world. We compete primarily on the basis of performance, price, quality, reliability, reputation, distribution, service, and account relationships. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. The Company has a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. We may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time, trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. 19 Research and Development If the Company cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements, its revenue and gross margin may suffer. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for products and services. After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at competitive costs. In the course of conducting business, the Company must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. However, we may have limited ability to control quality issues. If the Company is unable to determine the cause or find an appropriate solution, it may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive, adversely affecting our profits. If new or existing customers have difficulty utilizing our products, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet customers’ expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair the Company’s relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect its reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Accounting restatement In March 2010 management concluded that the previously issued 2008 consolidated financial statements contained an error in the accounting treatment of certain organizational costs incurred on behalf of AMAK. The 2008 financial statements, as set forth herein, have been restated to correct this error. In connection with the formation of AMAK, the Company incurred $3,712,500 in organizational and other formation costs. The Company originally capitalized these costs as a part of the costs of its investment in the mining interests transferred to AMAK. However, the Company has now determined that the costs, incurred on behalf of AMAK, must be accounted for as costs incurred for the organization of AMAK. As a result, the Company must treat the costs as incurred on behalf of and contributed to AMAK, and AMAK must treat the costs as organizational costs which are expensed as incurred. At the time these costs were incurred the Company was using the equity method to account for its investment in AMAK; and therefore, the Company should have, but did not, record a loss of $1,856,250 ($.08 per share) from its 50% equity in the net loss of AMAK incurred by AMAK when it expensed these organizational costs. The recording of this loss caused the Company’s long-term deferred tax assets to increase by $631,125. This increase in deferred tax assets was offset by an equal increase in the valuation allowance for deferred taxes, such that net tax expense and net tax liabilities were not affected (see Note 15). Such restatement of our consolidated financial statements could lead to litigation claims and/or regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory 20 proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 1B of Form 10-K requires the disclosure of any unresolved written comments from the Commission staff regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports which the Company had received not less than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K there were no unresolved written comments from the Commission staff regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports which the Company had received not less than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. The Company received a comment letter from staff of the Commission dated November 30, 2009 regarding the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and its reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal 2009. The Company responded to that comment letter on January 8, 2010, providing the staff with certain requested information and describing plans to expand or revise certain disclosures in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 in response to the staff’s comments. On February 23, 2010, the Company received a follow-up comment letter regarding these filings. The February 23, 2010, comment letter, requested enhanced disclosures and clarifications on the following items: 1. An expansion of the discussion under “Business” of the Company’s principal products and services and our principal competitors, 2. An expansion of the discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of the extent to which changes in the Company’s petrochemical revenues were caused by changes in the prices charged or changes in the volumes sold, 3. Expansions of the Company disclosures regarding executive compensation to (i) expand the narrative discussion of the Company’s executive compensation tables, including expanded discussion of the objectives and base year selection for the Company’s cash bonus plan, (ii) discuss any potential change-in-control payment plans, and (iii) disclosure the compensation of the Company’s directors, 4. Include as exhibits in its filings copies of certain organizational documents and agreements of AMAK, 5. Address the reasons why it was appropriate for the Company to include in the cost of its investment in AMAK (i) the Company’s $2.4 million of accumulated costs relating to the geophysical, geochemical and geologic work and diamond core drilling performing in the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr, and (ii) $3.7 million of costs the Company incurred in connection with the organization of AMAK, and (iii) disclose how the Company determined that the initial investment in AMAK was recorded at the lower of the cost or market value of the assets transferred, and 6. Address why the Company used the equity method to account for its investment in AMAK through August 2009, why it was appropriate to change to the cost method of 21 accounting for that investment in August 2009, clarify information concerning the Company’s application of the equity method of accounting for its investment in AMAK from December 2008 to August 2009 and discuss the Company’s efforts to obtain financial statements of AMAK. The Company has revised the disclosures in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, to include the discussions the Company provided to the staff in its January 8, 2010, response to the staff’s initial comment letter, and in addition, has revised the disclosures in this Form 10-K to include information which it believes is responsive to the comments in the staff’s follow-up comment letter of February 23, 2010. In addition, as discussed under “Item 1 – Business – Accounting restatement” and in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has restated its 2008 financial statements, as presented herein, to correct the accounting for the $3.7 million of organization costs incurred on behalf of AMAK in 2008. The Company will provide the staff of the Commission a formal response to the February 23, 2010, follow-up comment letter on or before March 23, 2010. Item 