ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks that may materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. In evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties later materialize, that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, then our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to VBI's Business VBI’s business is not currently profitable, and it may not be able to achieve profitability even if it is able to generate significant revenue. VBI’s income generating activities have been limited to R&D services pursuant to a research collaboration and certain governmental research and development grants. No revenues have been recorded from the sale of products in connection with VBI’s planned principal business activity. VBI has also incurred significant net losses and negative operating cash flows since inception. As of December 31, 2015, VBI had an accumulated deficit of approximately $83.4 million and stockholders’ equity of approximately $4.2 million. VBI expects to advance its first product candidate into Phase I clinical trials during the first half of 2016. VBI will require significant additional funds to conduct clinical and non-clinical trials, achieve regulatory approvals, and, subject to such approvals, commercially launch its products. VBI cannot predict if and when it will achieve profitability. VBI’s failure to achieve and sustain profitability could negatively impact the market price of its common stock and may require it to seek additional financing for its business. 14 VBI depends on skilled and experienced personnel to operate its business effectively. If VBI is unable to recruit, hire and retain these employees, its ability to manage and expand its business will be harmed, which would impair its future revenue and profitability. VBI’s success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of its officers and other key employees. While VBI has employment contracts with many of its officers and other key employees, its officers and other key employees may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of VBI’s senior management team members could weaken its management expertise and harm its business. VBI’s ability to retain its skilled labor force and its success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether VBI will be successful in the future. VBI may not be able to meet its future hiring needs or retain existing personnel. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel, would materially harm VBI’s ability to compete effectively and grow its business. Product Development Risks Because VBI’s vaccine product development efforts depend on new and rapidly evolving technologies, it cannot be certain that its efforts will be successful. VBI’s vaccine development efforts depend on new, rapidly evolving technologies and on the marketability and profitability of VBI products. Commercialization of VBI vaccines could fail for a variety of reasons, and include the possibility that: • VBI’s “enveloped” virus like particle, which we refer to as eVLP vaccine technologies, any or all of the products based on such technologies or VBI’s proprietary manufacturing process will be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances or achieve commercial viability; • VBI’s thermostable Lipid Particle Vaccine, which we refer to as LPV vaccine technologies, any or all of the products based on such technologies or VBI’s proprietary manufacturing process will be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances or commercial viability; • VBI may be unable to develop a scale-up method for its manufacturing protocols in a cost-effective manner; • the licensed NRC HEK-293 cell line requires production of a Master Cell Bank (“MCB”) which VBI will use as a critical supply reagent for each GMP quality batch of clinical materials. Any delays in the production and release of NRC’s MCB may impact VBI’s timelines to start Phase I clinical trials; • the products, if safe and effective, will be difficult to manufacture on a large-scale or may be uneconomical to market; • VBI’s subcontracted third party manufacturing facility may fail to continue to pass regulatory inspections; • proprietary rights of third parties will prevent VBI or its collaborators from exploiting technologies, and manufacturing or marketing products; and • third-party competitors will gain greater market share due to superior products or marketing capabilities. VBI has not completed the development of vaccine products and may not succeed in obtaining the FDA approvals necessary to sell such vaccine products. The development, manufacture and marketing of VBI’s pharmaceutical and biological products are subject to government regulation in the United States and other countries. In the United States and most foreign countries, VBI must complete rigorous pre-clinical testing and extensive clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product in each country. None of VBI’s vaccine candidates have yet gained regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. VBI also has a vaccine candidate about to enter a Phase I clinical trial and others in pre-clinical laboratory or animal studies. The steps required by the FDA before VBI’s proposed investigational products may be marketed in the United States include: • performance of pre-clinical (animal and laboratory) tests; • submissions to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may commence; • performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational product in the intended target population; 15 • performance of a consistent and reproducible manufacturing process intended for commercial use, including appropriate manufacturing data and regulatory inspections; • submission to the FDA of a BLA or NDA; and • FDA approval of the BLA or NDA before any commercial sale or shipment of the product. The above steps and processes are expensive and can take many years to complete, and VBI may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of its vaccine candidates to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities. The start of clinical trials can be delayed or take longer than anticipated for many and varied reasons, many of which are out of VBI’s control. Safety concerns may emerge that could lengthen the ongoing clinical trials or require additional clinical trials to be conducted. Promising results in early clinical trials may not be replicated in subsequent clinical trials. Regulatory authorities may also require additional testing, and VBI may be required to demonstrate that its proposed products represent an improved form of treatment over existing therapies, which it may be unable to do without conducting further clinical trials. Moreover, if the FDA or a foreign regulatory body grants regulatory approval of a product, that approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution. Expanded or additional indications for approved products may not be approved, which could limit VBI’s revenue. Foreign regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Consequently, even if VBI believes that pre-clinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for its vaccine candidates, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately grant approval for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. If VBI’s vaccine candidates are not approved, it will not be able to generate revenue and its business will be adversely affected. Because VBI depends on third-parties to conduct some of its laboratory testing, clinical trials, and manufacturing, VBI may encounter delays in or lose some control over its efforts to develop products. VBI is dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct some of its laboratory testing, clinical trials and manufacturing activities. If VBI is unable to obtain any necessary services on acceptable terms, it may not complete its product development efforts in a timely manner. VBI may lose some control over these activities and become too dependent upon these parties. These third parties may not complete testing or manufacturing activities on schedule, within acceptable product specifications, within budget, or when VBI requests. VBI may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research organizations to conduct its laboratory testing, clinical trials and manufacturing activities. VBI has not manufactured any of its vaccine candidates at a commercial level and may need to identify additional third-party manufacturers to scale-up and manufacture its products. VBI is responsible for confirming that each of its clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require VBI to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that clinical trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies also require VBI to comply with GMP requirements. VBI’s reliance on third parties does not relieve it of these responsibilities and requirements. These third parties may not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines. In addition, these third parties may need to be replaced or the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain may be compromised or the product they manufacture may be contaminated due to the failure to adhere to VBI’s clinical and manufacturing protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons. In any such event, VBI’s pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and VBI may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of, or commercially manufacture, its vaccine candidates. If VBI is unable to manufacture its vaccines in sufficient quantities, at sufficient yields or is unable to obtain regulatory approvals for a manufacturing facility for its vaccines, VBI may experience delays in product development, clinical trials, regulatory approval and commercial distribution. Completion of VBI’s clinical trials and commercialization of its vaccine candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture its vaccine candidates at sufficient yields and at commercial-scale. VBI has limited experience manufacturing any of its vaccine candidates in the volumes that will be necessary to support large-scale clinical trials or commercial sales. Efforts to establish these capabilities may not meet initial expectations as to scheduling, scale-up, reproducibility, yield, purity, cost, potency or quality. If VBI is unable to manufacture its vaccine candidates in clinical quantities or, when necessary, in commercial quantities and at sufficient yields, then VBI must rely on third parties. Other third-party manufacturers must also receive FDA approval before they may produce clinical material or commercial products. VBI’s vaccines may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third parties give other products greater priority. VBI has entered into a third party manufacturing agreement with Paragon and has reserved resource capability for manufacture of VBI’s Phase I clinical trial materials. VBI has initiated technology transfer related to its proprietary product. Despite progress achieved to date, any delays experienced by Paragon, whether directly by Paragon or by its third party suppliers in relation to VBI’s project, may result in delays. 16 As a result, any delay or interruption could have a material adverse effect on VBI’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. VBI must identify vaccines for development with its technologies and establish successful third-party relationships. The near and long-term viability of VBI’s vaccine candidates will depend, in part, on its ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, non-profit organizations and government agencies. Establishing strategic collaborations and obtaining government funding is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of VBI’s financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or based on their internal pipeline; government agencies may reject contract or grant applications based on their assessment of public need, the public interest, the ability of VBI’s products to address these areas, or other reasons beyond VBI’s expectations or control. If VBI fails to establish a sufficient number of collaborations or government relationships on acceptable terms, it may not be able to commercialize its vaccine candidates or generate sufficient revenue to fund further research and development efforts. Even if VBI establishes new collaborations or obtains government funding, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any vaccine candidates for several reasons, including the fact that: • VBI may not have the ability to control the activities of its partners and cannot provide assurance that they will fulfill their obligations to VBI, including with respect to the license, development and commercialization of vaccine candidates, in a timely manner or at all; • such partners may not devote sufficient resources to VBI’s vaccine candidates or properly maintain or defend its intellectual property rights; • any failure on the part of VBI’s partners to perform or satisfy their obligations to VBI could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of VBI’s vaccine candidates and affect its ability to realize product revenue; and • disagreements, including disputes over the ownership of technology developed with such collaborators, could result in litigation, which would be time-consuming and expensive, and may delay or terminate research and development efforts, regulatory approvals and commercialization activities. VBI’s collaborators will be subject to the same regulatory approval of their manufacturing facilities and processes as VBI. Before VBI could begin commercial manufacturing of any of its vaccine candidates, it and its collaborators must pass a pre-approval inspection as a condition of FDA approval and comply with the FDA’s current GMP requirements. If VBI’s collaborators fail to comply with these requirements, its vaccine candidates would not be approved. If its collaborators fail to comply with these requirements after approval, VBI would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which it is permitted to sell its products and the resources with which it may produce its products. If VBI or its collaborators fail to maintain their existing agreements or in the event VBI fails to establish agreements as necessary, VBI could be required to undertake research, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities solely at its own expense. These activities would significantly increase VBI’s capital requirements and, given its lack of sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, significantly delay the commercialization of its vaccine candidates. Risks Related to VBI Intellectual Property VBI’s success depends on its ability to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology. VBI’s success in large part depends on its ability to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology and other trade secrets. To do so, VBI must, at significant cost, prosecute and maintain existing patents, obtain new patents and pursue trade secret and other intellectual property protection. VBI also must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties or allowing third parties to infringe its rights. VBI currently has rights to approximately 140 patents and corresponding foreign patents and patent applications covering its technologies. However, patent issues relating to pharmaceuticals and biologics involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of biotechnology patent claims that are granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or enforced by the federal courts. Therefore, VBI does not know whether its patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued to VBI will provide it with any competitive advantage. VBI also cannot be sure that it will develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. Furthermore, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to VBI. 17 There is a risk that third parties may challenge VBI’s existing patents or claim that VBI is infringing their patents or proprietary rights. VBI could incur substantial costs in defending patent infringement suits or in filing suits against others to have their patents declared invalid or claim infringement. It is also possible that VBI may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to avoid infringing third-party patents or other proprietary rights. VBI cannot be sure that such third-party licenses would be available to it on acceptable terms, if at all. If VBI is unable to obtain required third-party licenses, it may be delayed in or prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring such licenses. Although VBI’s patent filings include claims covering various features of its vaccine candidates, including composition, methods of manufacture and use, VBI’s patents do not provide it with complete protection against the development of competing products. Some of VBI’s know-how and technology is not patentable. To protect VBI’s proprietary rights in unpatentable intellectual property and trade secrets, it requires employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for VBI’s trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. VBI holds time limited, exclusive licenses to intellectual property from third parties that, once expired, may limit its competitive positioning within the field and prevent it from defending its proprietary position. VBI expects it will need to license intellectual property from third parties in the future and that these licenses will be material to its business. VBI will not own the patents or patent applications that underlie these licenses, and may not control the enforcement of these patents. VBI may need to rely upon its licensors to properly prosecute and file those patent applications and prevent infringement of those patents. VBI’s license agreement with Universite Pierre et Marie Curie, referred to as UPMC, which gives UPMC exclusive rights to a family of patents and patent applications that are expected to expire in 2022, covers eVLP technology for use in human vaccines. These applications are very significant to VBI’s business. Once expired, VBI may be open to competitive eVLP-like products and others may gain VBI’s proprietary position in the development of new products based on the eVLP platform. If patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, VBI’s competitors may be able to develop and commercialize its discoveries. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biopharmaceutical products and processes in the United States and other important markets outside the U.S., such as Europe, China and Japan. As such, these foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the U.S. patent system. Litigation or administrative proceedings may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of certain of VBI’s and others’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation or proceeding may result in a significant commitment of resources in the future and could force VBI to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of its products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect its revenue; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign its products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may be time-consuming or impossible to do. In addition, changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to use VBI’s discoveries or develop and commercialize its products. VBI cannot provide assurance that the patents it obtains or the unpatented technology it holds will afford it significant commercial protection. 18 Risks Related to Regulatory Matters VBI may fail to obtain regulatory approval for its products on a timely basis or comply with its continuing regulatory obligations after approval is obtained. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities, losing any potential marketing advantage resulting from being early to market, and increased clinical trial costs. The speed with which VBI begins and completes its pre-clinical studies necessary to begin clinical trials, the clinical trials themselves and VBI’s applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: • VBI’s ability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in necessary pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; • prior regulatory agency review and approval; • approval of the protocol and the informed consent form by the review board(s) of the institution(s) conducting the clinical trial; • the rate of subject or patient enrollment and retention, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the subject or patient population, the proximity of subjects and patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial and the nature of the protocol; • negative test results or side effects experienced by clinical trial participants; • analysis of data obtained from pre-clinical activities, which is susceptible to varying interpretations and which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent further studies or regulatory approval; • the availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical trials and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications; and • changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug or vaccine approval during the period of product development. VBI has limited experience in conducting and managing the pre-clinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory marketing approvals. VBI may not be permitted to continue clinical trials or to commence additional clinical trials. VBI also faces the risk that the results of its clinical trials may be inconsistent with the results obtained in pre-clinical studies or clinical trials of similar products or that the results obtained in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical and product development industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal and human testing. Regulatory agencies may require VBI or its collaborators to delay, restrict or discontinue clinical trials on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, VBI or its collaborators may be unable to submit applications to regulatory agencies within the time frame it currently expects. Once submitted, applications must be approved by various regulatory agencies before VBI or its collaborators may commercialize the product described in the application. All statutes and regulations governing the conduct of clinical trials are subject to change in the future, which changes(s) could affect the cost of such clinical trials. Any unanticipated costs or delays in VBI’s clinical trials could delay its ability to generate revenue and may significantly harm its financial condition and results of operations. VBI’s vaccine candidates may never achieve market acceptance, even if VBI obtains regulatory approvals. Even if VBI receives regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of its vaccine candidates, the commercial success of these vaccine candidates will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payers such as health insurance companies and other members of the medical community as a vaccine and cost-effective alternative to competing products. If VBI’s vaccine candidates fail to gain market acceptance, VBI may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue its business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that VBI may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • VBI’s ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; 19 • whether VBI’s vaccines are differentiated from other vaccines based on immunogenicity; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of VBI’s marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning VBI’s products or competing products and treatments; and • VBI’s ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. In particular, there are significant challenges to obtaining regulatory approval for cytomegalovirus, which we refer to as CMV, vaccines developed for the target market (pre-pregnant women) due to the relatively low tolerance for risk to these populations. The risk-benefit analysis undertaken by the FDA and other regulators will be high relative to other vaccines and biologic products. If VBI’s vaccine candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If reforms in the health care industry make third-party payer reimbursement for VBI’s potential products less likely, the market for VBI’s potential products will be reduced, and it could lose potential sources of revenue. VBI’s success may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of vaccines will be available from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other organizations. Over the past decade, the cost of health care has risen significantly, and there have been numerous proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party health care payers to curb these costs. Some of these proposals have involved limitations on the amount of reimbursement for certain products. Similar or more restrictive federal or state health care legislation may be adopted in the future and so any products that VBI or its collaborators seek to commercialize may not be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party insurance coverage may not be available for VBI to establish and maintain price levels that are sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on its investment in product development. Moreover, the existence or threat of cost control measures could cause VBI’s corporate collaborators to be less willing or able to pursue R&D programs related to its vaccine candidates. Risks Related to VBI’s Capital Requirements and Financings If VBI is unable to comply with certain financial and operating restrictions in its existing credit facility, it may be limited in its business activities and access to credit or may default under its credit facilities. Pursuant to its existing credit facility, all of the assets of VBI and its subsidiaries, other than excluded and future projects, are secured with its senior lender. As of December 31, 2015, VBI owed approximately $2.7 million under its initial term loan. Provisions in its credit facility impose restrictions or require prior approval on VBI’s ability, and the ability of certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: ● incur additional debt; ● pay cash dividends and make distributions; ● make certain investments and acquisitions; ● guarantee the indebtedness of others or our subsidiaries; ● redeem or repurchase capital stock; ● create liens or encumbrances; ● enter into transactions with affiliates; ● engage in new lines of business; ● sell, lease or transfer certain parts of our business or property; ● incur obligations for capital expenditures; 20 ● issue additional capital stock of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company; ● acquire new companies and merge or consolidate. The credit facility also contains other customary covenants, including covenants that require VBI to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. VBI may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. VBI’s failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause it to be unable to borrow under its credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under this agreement, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under this agreement, which would require VBI to pay all amounts outstanding. If the maturity of VBI’s indebtedness is accelerated, it may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or it may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to it or at all. VBI’s failure to repay its indebtedness would result in its senior lender foreclosing on all or a portion of its assets and force it to curtail or cease its operations. Any acquisitions that VBI makes could disrupt its business and harm its financial condition. VBI expects to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. VBI may also consider joint ventures and other collaborative projects. VBI may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate acquisitions of any businesses, products or technologies. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition and management of any collaborative project may divert management’s time and resources from VBI’s core business and disrupt its operations. VBI has limited experience with acquiring companies or products. If it decides to expand its product offerings beyond vaccine technologies, VBI may spend time and money on projects that do not increase its revenue. While VBI from time to time evaluates potential collaborative projects and acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipates continuing to make these evaluations, except for the Proposed Merger with SciVac, VBI has no other present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions. VBI will likely need additional financing to continue its operations. If VBI is unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, it may have to curtail or cease its development plans and operations. Since the incorporation of VBI’s wholly owned subsidiary, Variation Biotechnologies (US), Inc., which we refer to as VBI (US), in 2006 to December 31, 2015, we have received $73.8 million in total equity and debt financing. VBI’s income generating activities have been limited to R&D services pursuant to a research collaboration and certain governmental R&D grants. No revenues have been recorded from the sale of products in connection with VBI’s planned principal business activity. In addition, VBI has incurred significant net losses and negative operating cash flows since inception. As of December 31, 2015, VBI had an accumulated deficit of approximately $83.4 million and stockholders’ equity of approximately $4.2 million. VBI’s long-term success and ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon obtaining sufficient capital to fund the R&D of its products, to bring about their successful commercial release, if approved, to generate revenue and, ultimately, attain profitable operations or alternatively advance the products and technology to such a point that an acquirer would find attractive. VBI faces substantial demand on its cash resources to fund operations and its growth plans in the future. To date, VBI has been able to obtain financing; however, there is no assurance that financing will be available in the future, or if it is, that it will be available at terms acceptable to management and its existing stockholders. Additional financings may be effected through debt financing and/or the issuance of equity securities, there being no assurance that any type of financing on terms acceptable to VBI will be available or otherwise occur. Debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether VBI generates revenues or cash flows from operations and is secured by substantially all of VBI’s assets. Any equity financing or debt financing that requires the issuance of warrants or other equity securities to the lender would cause the percentage ownership of VBI’s stockholders to be diluted, which dilution may be substantial. Also, any additional equity securities issued may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If such financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, VBI may be required to reduce or eliminate certain product candidates and development activities, and it may ultimately require VBI to suspend or cease operations, which could cause investors to lose the entire amount of their investment. Any future acquisitions that we may make could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, financial condition or operating results. If we are successful in consummating acquisitions, those acquisitions could subject us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: ● the purchase price we pay and/or unanticipated costs could significantly deplete our cash reserves or result in dilution to our existing stockholders; 21 ● we may find that the acquired company or technologies do not improve our market position as planned; ● we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company, as the combined operations will place significant demands on the Company’s management, technical, financial and other resources; ● key personnel and customers of the acquired company may terminate their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; ● we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting; ● we may assume or be held liable for risks and liabilities (including environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not be able to discover during our due diligence or adequately adjust for in our acquisition arrangements; ● our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; ● we may incur one-time write-offs or restructuring charges in connection with the acquisition; ● we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to amortization or impairment tests, which could result in future charges to earnings; and ● we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. We cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate or profitably manage any acquired business. In addition, we cannot assure you that, following any acquisition, our continued business will achieve profitability, efficiencies or synergies that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings for us in any future period. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock The public market for our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. This may affect the ability of our investors to sell their shares as well as the price at which they sell their shares. Due to the volatility of the market for our common stock, the market price for the shares may be significantly affected by factors such as variations in quarterly and yearly operating results, whether the current trend to reject vaccines as a means for preventing disease continues to grow, or changes in state or federal regulations affecting us and our industry. Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have the right to issue shares of preferred stock and have previously issued Series 1 Preferred Stock. If we were to issue additional preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 30,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors, of which 2,996,482 have been designated Series 1 Convertible Preferred Stock. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue additional preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could adversely reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of the Company’s assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of our common stock. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of holders of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue additional shares of our preferred stock. 22 We have not paid dividends in the past and have no immediate plans to pay dividends. We plan to reinvest all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, in order to market our products and to cover operating costs and to otherwise become and remain competitive. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends with respect to our securities in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we would, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, holders of our common stock should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock. Management of VBI is within the control of the board of directors and the officers. Investors should not purchase VBI common stock unless they are willing to entrust management of VBI to these individuals. All decisions with respect to the management of VBI will be made by its board of directors and its officers, who, prior to the Proposed Merger with SciVac and as of February 19, 2016, beneficially own approximately 50.4% of our common stock, as calculated in accordance with Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act. Therefore, management will retain significant influence in electing a majority of the board of directors who shall, in turn, have the power to appoint the officers of VBI and to determine the direction, objectives and policies of VBI including, without limitation, the purchase of businesses or assets; the sale of all or a substantial portion of the assets of VBI; the merger or consolidation of VBI with another corporation; raising additional capital through financing and/or equity sources; the retention of cash reserves for future product development, expansion of its business and/or acquisitions; the filing of registration statements with the SEC for offerings of its capital stock; and transactions that may cause or prevent a change in control of VBI or its winding up and dissolution. Accordingly, no investor should purchase VBI common stock unless such investor is willing to entrust all aspects of the management of VBI to such individuals. As of December 31, 2015, we had options for the purchase of 4,045,239 shares of our common stock outstanding and we may grant additional options in the future to employees, officers, directors, independent contractors and agents. Sales of the underlying shares of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2015, we had outstanding options for the purchase of 4,045,239 shares of common stock. Of this amount, options for the purchase of 261,830 shares are held by non-affiliates, who may sell these shares in the public markets from time to time, without limitations on the timing, amount or method of sale. If our stock price rises, the holders may exercise their options and sell a large number of shares. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months, subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Of the 25,498,130 shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 19, 2016, approximately 12,547,426 shares are held by “non-affiliates” and, of that amount, 3,443,993 will be freely tradable without restriction pursuant to Rule 144. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. VBI Common Stock Was the Subject of a Temporary NASDAQ Trading Suspension; Continued Listing of VBI’s Common Stock Requires VBI’s Compliance with the Continued Listing Requirements of NASDAQ. On November 21, 2013, NASDAQ suspended trading of the common stock of Paulson Capital (Delaware) Corp. (“Paulson”), which was later renamed VBI Vaccines, Inc. upon consummation of the PLCC Merger. The trading suspension resulted from Paulson’s alleged non-compliance with NASDAQ’s listing rules. Following correspondence between Paulson and NASDAQ and provision by Paulson of requested materials related to its plans for regaining compliance, NASDAQ resumed trading of Paulson’s common stock on January 8, 2014. NASDAQ subsequently completed a listing review of Paulson’s common stock, which, following a hearing on February 6, 2014, resulted in NASDAQ’s determination to grant continued listing. Following the successful outcome of the listing review and as a result of the subsequent closing of the PLCC Merger, VBI believes that this past trading suspension represents no present risk to VBI investors. VBI has since been, and believes it will continue to be, in full compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. However, if VBI were to cease to be in compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements for any reason in the future, and were unable to regain compliance within the time period required by NASDAQ, then NASDAQ could suspend or terminate the listing of VBI’s common stock, which would have an adverse effect on investors’ ability to liquidate their investments in VBI. 23 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 