ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As a Smaller Reporting Company, information regarding Risk Factors is not required. However, the following risk factor, which is not inclusive of all risks applicable to us, should be considered as part of any investment decision regarding our stock. Our stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could affect its market price and liquidity. We are required to continually meet NASDAQ's listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market (including a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share) to maintain the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. On September 27, 2012, we received a deficiency letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that for 30 consecutive trading days our common stock had a closing bid price below the $1.00 per share minimum closing bid as required for continued listing. In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, we were provided a compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until March 26, 2013, to regain compliance with this requirement. We can regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement if the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the suspension period. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement during the initial 180-day compliance period, we will be granted an additional 180-day compliance period if we comply with The NASDAQ Capital Market's continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable listing requirements except the bid price requirement. On March 12, 2013, we notified NASDAQ of our intention to cure the deficiency during the additional 180-day compliance period, including by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement during this second 180-day compliance period, NASDAQ will provide written notice that our securities will be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. At such time, we are entitled to appeal the delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. We cannot provide any assurance that our stock price will recover within the permitted grace period. If our common stock is delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and to obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our stock could suffer a material decline. Delisting may also impair our ability to raise capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable as there are no outstanding comment letters. 