ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements made by the Company. Our holding company structure could adversely affect our ability to pay our expenses and long-term debt obligations. Our principal operations are conducted through our General Physics subsidiary. General Physics' Credit Agreement currently limits its ability to loan, dividend or otherwise pay funds to us, which could adversely affect our ability to pay our expenses and long-term debt obligations which mature in 2008 (see Note 8 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements). We recently identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that we will not find further such weaknesses. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to conduct an annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and to include a report on, and an attestation by our independent registered public accountants, KPMG LLP, of the effectiveness of these controls. In the course of our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, arising from deficiencies with respect to our accounting for income taxes. To remediate this material weakness, we will continue to revise our processes and procedures over the accounting for income taxes and have hired a tax director which we believe will provide the Company with the necessary technical skills to perform, review and analyze complex tax accounting activities. We believe these additional controls will remediate the material weakness; however, such determination will not occur until these additional controls have been in place for a period of time sufficient to demonstrate that the controls are operating effectively. See Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. We cannot assure you that deficiencies or weaknesses in our controls and procedures will not be identified in the future. Any such weaknesses or deficiencies could harm our business and operating results, result in adverse publicity and a loss in investor confidence in our financial reports, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our stock price, and, if they are not properly remediated, could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. Failure to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our principal resource is our personnel. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from services and products that are delivered by instructors, engineers, technical personnel and consultants. Our success depends 9 upon our ability to continue to attract and retain instructors, engineers, technical personnel and consultants who possess the skills and experience required to meet the needs of our clients. In order to initiate and develop client relationships and execute our growth strategy, we must maintain and continue to hire qualified salespeople. We must also continue to attract and develop capable management personnel to guide our business and supervise the use of our resources. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. We cannot assure you that qualified personnel will continue to be available to us. Any failure to attract or retain qualified instructors, engineers, technical personnel, consultants, salespeople and managers in sufficient numbers could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The loss of our key personnel, including our executive management team, could harm our business. Our success is largely dependent upon the experience and continued services of our executive management team and our other key personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel and a failure to attract or promote suitable replacements for them may adversely affect our business. Our revenue and financial condition could be adversely affected by the loss of business from significant customers, including the U.S. Government. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, revenue from the U.S. Government represented approximately 40%, 38%, and 38% of our revenue, respectively. However, the revenue was derived from a number of separate contracts with a variety of government agencies we regard as separate customers. Most of our contracts and subcontracts, including those with the U.S. Government, are subject to termination on written notice, and therefore our operations are dependent on our customers' continued satisfaction with our services and their continued inability or unwillingness to perform those services themselves or to engage other third parties to deliver such services. Government contracts are also subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits by government representatives and profit and cost controls. If we fail to comply with all of the applicable regulations, requirements or laws, our existing contracts with the government could be terminated and our ability to seek future government contracts or subcontracts could be adversely affected. In addition, the funding of government contracts is subject to Congressional appropriations. Budget decisions made by the U.S. Government are outside of our control and could result in a reduction or elimination of contract funding. A shift in government spending to other programs in which we are not involved or a reduction in general government spending could have a negative impact on our financial condition. The government is under no obligation to maintain or continue funding our contracts or subcontracts. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by government limitations on contractor profitability and the possibility of cost disallowance. A significant portion of our revenue and profit is derived from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government places limitations on contractor profitability; therefore, government related contracts may have lower profit margins than the contracts we enter into with commercial customers. Furthermore, U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts are subject to audit by a designated government agency. Although we have not experienced any material cost disallowances as a result of these audits, we may be subject to material disallowances in the future. We enter into fixed price contracts which could result in reduced profits or losses if we have cost overruns. A majority of our revenue is attributable to contracts entered into on a fixed-price basis. This allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. If our initial estimates are incorrect, or if unanticipated circumstances arise, we could experience cost overruns which would result in reduced profits or 10 losses on these contracts. Our financial condition is dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns could have a negative impact on our financial results. We maintain a workforce based upon anticipated staffing needs. If we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed or reduced in scope or funding, we may incur significant costs. Our estimates of future staffing requirements depend in part on the timing of new contract awards. We make our estimates in good faith, but our estimates could be inaccurate or change based on new information. In the case of larger projects, it is particularly difficult to predict whether we will receive a contract award and when the award will be announced. In some cases the contracts that are awarded require staffing levels that are different, sometimes lower, than the levels anticipated when the work was proposed. The uncertainty of contract award timing and changes in scope or funding can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contract needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, or if a contract is awarded for a smaller scope of work than proposed, we could incur significant costs resulting from reductions in staff. Failure to keep pace with technology and changing market needs could harm our business. Our future success will depend upon our ability to gain expertise in technological advances rapidly and respond quickly to evolving industry trends and client needs. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in adapting to advances in technology, addressing client needs on a timely basis, or marketing our services and products in advanced formats. In addition, services and products delivered in the newer formats may not provide comparable training results. Furthermore, subsequent technological advances may render moot any successful expansion of the methods of delivering our services and products. If we are unable to develop new means of delivering our services and products due to capital, personnel, technological or other constraints, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Changing economic conditions in the United States or the United Kingdom could harm our business and financial condition. Our revenues and profitability are related to general levels of economic activity and employment in the United States and the United Kingdom. As a result, any significant economic downturn or recession in one or both of those countries could harm our business and financial condition. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from Fortune 1000-level companies and their international equivalents, which historically have adjusted expenditures for external training during economic downturns. If the economies in which these companies operate weaken in any future period, these companies may not increase or may reduce their expenditures on external training, and other products and services supplied by us, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our financial results are subject to quarterly fluctuations. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in quarterly operating results. In addition, we provide domestic preparedness and emergency management services, including hurricane and other disaster recovery services, which can result in revenue volatility associated with the unpredictability of certain events occurring and the need for these types of services. Consequently, you should not deem our results for any particular quarter to be necessarily indicative of future results. These fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may vary because of, among other things, the overall level of performance improvement services and products sold, the gain or loss of material clients, the timing, structure and magnitude of acquisitions, the commencement or completion of client engagements or custom services and products in a particular quarter, and the general level of economic activity. Downward fluctuations may result in a decline in the trading price of our Common Stock. 11 Competition could adversely affect our performance. The training industry is highly fragmented and competitive, with low barriers to entry and no single competitor accounting for a significant market share. Our competitors include several large publicly traded and privately held companies, vocational and technical training schools, degree-granting colleges and universities, continuing education programs and thousands of small privately held training providers and individuals. In addition, many of our clients maintain internal training departments. Some of our competitors offer similar services and products at lower prices, and some competitors have significantly greater financial, managerial, technical, marketing and other resources. Moreover, we expect to face additional competition from new entrants into the training and performance improvement market due, in part, to the evolving nature of the market and the relatively low barriers to entry. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully, and the failure to do so could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are subject to potential liabilities which are not covered by our insurance. We engage in activities in which there are substantial risks of potential liability. We provide services involving electric power distribution and generation, nuclear power, chemical weapons destruction, environmental remediation, engineering design and construction management. We maintain a consolidated insurance program (including general liability coverage) covering companies we currently own, including General Physics, as well as certain risks associated with companies we no longer own, including GSE and NPDC. Claims by or against any covered insured could reduce the amount of available insurance coverage for the other insureds and for other claims. In addition, certain liabilities may not be covered at all, such as deductibles, self-insured retentions, amounts in excess of applicable insurance limits and claims that fall outside the coverage of our policies. Although we believe that we currently have appropriate insurance coverage, we do not have coverage for all of the risks to which we are subject and we may not be able to obtain appropriate coverage on a cost-effective basis in the future. Our policies exclude coverage for incidents involving nuclear liability and we may not be covered by United States laws or industry programs providing liability protection for licensees of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (typically utilities) for damages caused by nuclear incidents; we are not a licensee and few of our contracts with clients have contained provisions waiving or limiting their liability. Therefore, we could be adversely affected by a nuclear incident. Certain environmental risks, such as liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended ("Superfund"), also may not be covered by our insurance. We provide environmental engineering services, including the development and management of site environmental remediation plans. Although we subcontract most remediation construction activities, and in all cases subcontract the removal and off-site disposal and treatment of hazardous substances, we could be subject to liability relating to the environmental services we perform directly or through subcontracts. Specifically, if we were deemed under federal or state laws, including Superfund, to be an "operator" of sites to which we provide environmental engineering and support services, we could be subject to liability. Our insurance policies may not provide coverage for these risks. Various mechanisms exist whereby the U. S. Government may limit liability for environmental claims and losses or indemnify us for such claims or losses under governmental contracts. Nonetheless, incurrence of any substantial Superfund or other environmental liability could adversely affect our business and financial condition by reducing profits or causing us to incur losses related to the cost of resolving such liability. Some of our policies, such as our professional liability insurance policy, provide coverage on a "claims made" basis covering only claims actually made during the policy period currently in effect. To the extent that a risk is not insured within our then available coverage limits, insured under a low-deductible policy, indemnified against 12 by a third party or limited by an enforceable waiver or limitation of liability, claims could be material and adversely affect our financial condition. Acquisitions are part of our growth strategy and may not be successful. We expect to pursue selective acquisitions of businesses as part of our growth strategy. Acquisitions may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to find suitable acquisitions or that we will be able to consummate them on terms and conditions favorable to us, or that we will successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. We are subject to potential liabilities related to operations we have discontinued. In November 2004, we completed the spin-off to our stockholders of the shares of stock we owned in NPDC. Prior to the spin-off, we provided certain financial guarantees and entered into transactions involving assets owned by NPDC or subsequently contributed by us to NPDC. We continued to guarantee certain lease obligations and indebtedness of NPDC subsequent to the spin-off. We also have outstanding debt that is collateralized by certain real property which was transferred to NPDC in connection with the spin-off. We no longer have the assets of NPDC available to us to use to satisfy these obligations, and if NPDC fails to satisfy obligations for which we continue to guarantee, we could be responsible for satisfying those obligations which could adversely impact our financial condition. Our stockholder rights plan and authorized preferred stock could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. We have a stockholder rights plan. Our stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows us to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of which may be fixed by the Board of Directors without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The stockholder rights plan, the ability to issue preferred stock and certain provisions in our by-laws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a change in control and might affect the market price of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation may discourage foreign ownership of our Common Stock. The United States Departments of Energy and Defense have policies regarding foreign ownership, control or influence over government contractors who have access to classified information, and inquire as to whether any foreign interest has beneficial ownership of 5% or more of a contractor's or subcontractor's voting securities. If either Department determines that an undue risk to the defense and security of the United States exists, it may, among other things, terminate the contractor's or subcontractor's existing contracts. Our certificate of incorporation allows us to redeem or require the prompt disposition of all or any portion of the shares of our Common Stock owned by a foreign stockholder beneficially owning 5% or more of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock if either Department threatens termination of any of our contracts as a result of such an ownership interest. These provisions may have the additional effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a change in control and might affect the market price of our Common Stock. 13 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 