ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In the course of operating a financial services business, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks. These risks include: Aspects of our business are volatile and affected by factors beyond our control. Our business depends heavily on the conditions of the financial and securities markets, which in turn are affected by domestic and foreign economic conditions generally. These conditions, which can be impacted by a variety of factors such as business trends, actual and proposed legislation, political considerations, inflation, interest rates, and the popular perceptions of the health of the economy, are outside of our control, and therefore inject significant amounts of uncertainty and volatility into our business and financial results. Volatility is compounded by our focus on small-cap companies. In sum, factors outside of our control significantly influence on our business and financial results from year to year, and a downturn in the financial markets, securities markets or economic conditions generally likely would materially and adversely affect our business. Our ability to attract and retain customers may be affected by our reputation. The performance of companies whose securities we have underwritten or otherwise sold to our customers may affect our reputation with other potential syndicate and selling group members and institutional and other retail accounts and may also affect the amount of money in our customers’ portfolios available for the kinds of investments that we offer. We are subject to extensive regulation that could result in investigations, fines or other penalties. We are subject to a very high degree of regulation and are responsible for compliance with applicable regulations by all of our personnel. A significant regulatory infraction by us or any of our registered representatives could result in significant penalties, including the loss of our license to conduct securities business in one or more jurisdictions. We face intense competition in our industry. There are several competitors in all aspects of our business. For example, alternatives available to our customers to transact securities trades could affect our ability to continue to execute our brokerage customers’ transactions. If we are unable to compete effectively in any aspect of our business, our results of operations could suffer. Our future success depends on retaining existing management and hiring and assimilating new key employees, and our inability to attract or retain key personnel would materially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of Chester Paulson, our Chairman. Our success also will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract, retain or assimilate key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business. As a public company, we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that require us to incur substantial expense and expose us to risk of non-compliance. As a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements. The cost of compliance with many of these requirements is substantial, not only in absolute terms but, more importantly, in relation to the overall scope of the operations of our company. Failure to comply with these requirements can have numerous adverse consequences including, but not limited to, our inability to file required periodic reports on a timely basis, loss of market confidence, delisting of our securities and/or governmental or private actions against us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these requirements in the future or that the cost of such compliance will not prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 9 