Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Forward-Looking Statements This report, including, without limitation, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains or incorporates both historical and “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “future” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements in this report reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are subject to a variety of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results or from anticipated results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Because of such factors, we cannot assure you that the results anticipated in this report will be realized. As noted elsewhere in this report, various aspects of our business are subject to extreme volatility often as a result of factors beyond our ability to anticipate or control. In particular, factors, such as the condition of the securities markets, which are in turn based on popular perceptions of the health of the economy generally, can be expected to affect the volume of our business as well as the value of the securities maintained in our trading and investment accounts. For additional information regarding factors that may affect our business, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” General Paulson Capital Corp., established in 1970, is a holding company whose only operating subsidiary is Paulson Investment Company, Inc., a full service brokerage firm engaged in operations in four principal categories, all of them in the financial services industry. These categories are: · securities brokerage activities for which we earn commission revenues; · corporate finance revenues consisting principally of underwriting discounts and underwriter warrants; · securities trading from which we record profit or loss, depending on trading results; and · investment income resulting from earnings on, and increases or decreases in the value of, our investment portfolio. Overview Because we operate in the financial services industry, our revenues and earnings are substantially affected by general conditions in financial markets. In our securities brokerage business, the amount of our revenues depends on levels of market activity requiring the services we provide. Our corporate finance activity, which consists of acting as the managing underwriter of initial and follow-on public offerings, private investments in a public equity (“PIPEs”) and private placements for smaller companies, is similarly affected by the strength of the market for new equity offerings, which has historically experienced substantial cyclical fluctuation. Although we attempt to match operating costs with activity levels, many of our expenses are either fixed or difficult to change on short notice. Accordingly, fluctuations in brokerage and corporate finance revenues tend to result in sharper fluctuations, on a percentage basis, in net income or loss. Our investment income or loss and, to a lesser extent, our trading income or loss is affected by changes in market valuation of securities generally and, in particular, by changes in valuation of the equity securities of microcap companies in which our investments and trading activities tend to be concentrated. Equity markets in general, and microcap equity markets in particular, have always experienced significant volatility and this volatility has, in recent years, been extreme. The result of this volatility on the value of our investment portfolio and securities held in connection with our trading and investment activities include large quarterly fluctuations in income or loss from these operations and substantial increases or decreases in our net worth as our securities holdings are marked to market. 2 The following table shows the portion of our revenues that was attributable to each revenue category for the last three fiscal years (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Commissions $ 15,725 $ 16,518 $ 18,304 Corporate finance 5,036 3,259 11,213 Investment income (loss) (6,345 ) 15,840 2,018 Trading income (loss) (1,338 ) 2,926 1,351 Interest and dividends 78 51 28 Other 308 1,142 1 $ 13,464 $ 39,736 $ 32,915 The following table shows our revenue categories as a percentage of total revenue for the last three fiscal years: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Commissions 116.8 % 41.5 % 55.6 % Corporate finance 37.4 8.2 34.1 Investment income (loss) (47.1 ) 39.9 6.1 Trading income (loss) (9.9 ) 7.4 4.1 Interest and dividends 0.5 0.1 0.1 Other 2.3 2.9 — 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % In 2004, 2005 and 2006, none of our revenue was from foreign sources and no customer represented 10% or more of our total revenue. In addition, all of our long-lived assets were located within the United States. Clearing Firm Pursuant to our agreement with RBC Dain Correspondent Services (“DCS”), DCS carries all of our customer securities accounts and performs the following services: (1) preparation and mailing of monthly statements to our customers; (2) settlement of contracts and transactions in securities between us and other broker-dealers and between us and our customers; (3) custody and safe-keeping of securities and cash, the handling of margin accounts, dividends, exchanges, rights offerings and tender offers; and (4) the execution of customer orders placed on an exchange. We determine the amount of commission to be charged to our customers on principal and agency transactions, as well as the price of securities purchased or sold in principal transactions. DCS receives compensation based on the number of transactions and revenue sharing arrangements. In the event of a liability arising from a bad debt from a customer, we are required to indemnify DCS against any loss. This potential liability is uninsured. Commissions As a securities broker, we act as agent for our customers in the purchase and sale of common and preferred stocks, options, warrants and debt securities traded on securities exchanges or in the over-the-counter (“OTC”) market. A portion of our revenue is derived from commissions from customers on these transactions. In the OTC market, transactions with customers in securities may be effected as principal, rather than agent, primarily in securities for which we are a market maker. Customer transactions in securities are effected either on a cash or margin basis. We also enter into dealer agreements with mutual fund management companies and publicly registered limited partnerships. Commissions on the sale of these securities are derived from the standard dealer discounts, which range from approximately 1% to 8.5% of the purchase price of the securities, depending on the terms of the dealer agreement and the amount of the purchase. We do not generally sell interests in limited partnerships that are not publicly registered. 3 In the case of corporate finance transactions, described below, a portion of the discount applicable to securities placed by our retail brokerage group is credited to securities brokerage commissions and the commission payable to the broker is recorded as securities brokerage commissions expense. Corporate Finance While a substantial portion of our corporate finance business consists of acting as managing underwriter of initial and follow-on public offerings for microcap and smallcap companies, we also act as a placement agent for PIPEs and private placements for smaller companies. We underwrite the public offerings on a “firm commitment” basis, which means that we agree to purchase a specific amount of securities from the issuer at a discount and resell the securities to the public at a specified price after the registration statement for the offering is declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Managing these public offerings involves the risk of loss if we are unable to resell at a profit the securities we are committed to purchase. This risk is usually reduced by including other stock brokerage firms as a part of an underwriting syndicate in which each member commits to purchase a specified amount of the offering. We, and the other underwriters, may also sell a portion of our respective commitments through a “selling group” of other stock brokerage firms that participate in selling the offering but are not subject to an underwriter’s commitment. As an underwriter, we are also subject to potential liability under federal and state securities laws if the registration statement or prospectus contains a material misstatement or omission. We do not have insurance to cover our potential liabilities as an underwriter. The commitment of our capital between the time a firm commitment underwriting agreement becomes effective and the time we resell the securities constitutes a charge against our net capital. Accordingly, our participation in, or initiation of, underwritings may be limited by the financial requirements of the SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD”). See “Net Capital Requirements” below. Between June 1, 1978 and December 31, 2006, we acted as the managing underwriter or co-managing underwriter for 159 securities offerings, raising approximately $1.15 billion for corporate finance clients. Of these, 98 were initial public offerings. We typically receive 2% to 3% of the aggregate amount of money raised in an offering to cover nonaccountable expenses and between 7% and 9% as compensation to underwriters, selling group members and registered representatives, although these percentages may be lower for larger transactions. As a part of our compensation for the underwriting activities, we also typically receive warrants exercisable to purchase securities similar to those that we offer and sell to the public. The warrants generally have a five-year expiration date and vest immediately. The warrants are generally subject to a restricted period of six months to one-year in which we cannot exercise the warrants. The exercise price is typically 120% of the price at which the securities are initially sold to the public. Accordingly, unless there is at least a 20% increase in the price of these securities at some time more than six months and less than five years after the offering, the warrants will remain “under water” and will ultimately expire unexercised. We also receive warrants in connection with our PIPEs, which have varying terms and conditions. A portion of these underwriter warrants are typically transferred as compensation to persons associated with us and, in certain cases, to other co-managing underwriters in the public offering. In 2006, we completed two initial public offerings with gross proceeds for our clients totaling $36.0 million. In addition, during 2006 we completed one secondary public offering and two small private transactions. Investment Income We hold securities for investment, which are maintained in investment accounts that are segregated from the trading accounts. Our investment portfolio principally consists of securities purchased for investment and underwriter warrants. From time to time, we make investments as a principal in companies that are, or are expected to be, corporate finance clients. The investment may be as convertible debt in anticipation of a public offering, in which case, if the offering is successful, the principal and interest are either converted to equity or 4 repayable from the offering proceeds. If the offering is not successful, the debt is typically converted to equity. We also make investments in companies that are not anticipating an immediate public offering. In such cases, the investment is typically made in the form of the purchase of restricted equity securities. Typically, these type of investments have ranged from $50,000 to $1.0 million. At December 31, 2006, we held securities of nine privately-held companies in our investment accounts with a fair value of $2.4 million at December 31, 2006. Trading Income and Market Making In addition to executing trades as an agent, we regularly act as a principal in executing trades in equity securities, corporate debt securities and municipal bonds. At December 31, 2006, we made a market in 49 securities of 39 issuers. Of these, 23 were corporations for which we had acted as managing or co-managing underwriter of public financings. Our market making activities are conducted both with other dealers in the “wholesale market” and with our customers. Transactions with customers are effected as principal at a net price equal to the current interdealer price plus or minus the approximate equivalent of a brokerage commission. In such transactions, the commission is recorded as securities brokerage commissions revenue while any profit or loss attributable to a change in value of the security in our trading account is recorded as trading profit or loss. Our transactions as principal expose us to risk because securities positions are subject to fluctuations in market value and liquidity. Profits or losses on trading and investment positions depend upon the skills of the employees in our trading department and employees responsible for taking investment positions. The trading department is headquartered in our Portland, Oregon office. Limitations on Investment and Trading Securities The size of our investment and trading securities positions at any date may not be representative of our exposure on any other date, because the securities positions vary substantially depending upon economic and market conditions, the allocation of capital among types of inventories, underwriting commitments, customer demands and trading volume. The aggregate value of inventories that we may carry are limited by certain requirements under the SEC’s net capital rules. See “Net Capital Requirements” below. Branch Offices Our branch offices are generally run by independent contractors who assume liability for all the operating expenses of the branch. We typically receive between 10% and 20% of the gross commission earned by the branch, with the balance retained by the branch to pay its expenses and staff. Persons in these branches are registered with us, and we assume the same compliance and regulatory obligations as would be the case if we were fully responsible for the branch’s expenses. As of March 1, 2007, we had 28 branch offices in Arizona, California, Georgia, Hawaii, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Utah and Washington. All of these branches, except our offices in Salem, Oregon and Manhattan, New York, operate as independent contractor offices. We continue to be responsible for all expenses of the Salem and Manhattan offices. Regulation We are registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are a member of the NASD. We are also registered as a broker-dealer under the laws of all 50 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico. We are registered as investment advisors in 15 states. The securities business is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws. The principal purpose of regulation and discipline of broker-dealers is the protection of customers and the securities markets rather than protection of creditors and stockholders of broker-dealers. The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally the NASD. These self-regulatory organizations adopt rules (subject to approval by the SEC) that govern the industry and conduct 5 periodic examinations of member broker-dealers. Securities firms are also subject to regulation and examination by state securities commissions in the states in which they are registered. The regulations to which broker-dealers are subject cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trading practices among broker-dealers, capital structure of securities firms, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC and by self-regulatory bodies or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules often directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers. The SEC, NASD and state regulatory authorities may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. Net Capital Requirements We are required to maintain minimum “net capital” under the SEC’s net capital rule of not less than 6.67% of our “aggregate indebtedness.” In general, net capital consists of the broker-dealer’s net worth, adjusted by numerous factors specified in the applicable regulations. In particular, the value of securities that can be included in net capital is subject to reduction in market value or principal amount. The amount of the required reduction, or “haircut,” depends on the nature of the security. As of December 31, 2006, we had net capital of $15.9 million, which exceeded our minimum requirement of $115,863 by $15.8 million. The ratio of aggregate indebtedness of $1.7 million to net capital of $15.9 million at December 31, 2006, was approximately 0.11 to 1. In a public offering in which we act as an underwriter, we must have sufficient net capital to cover the amount of securities underwritten, applying the applicable formula mandated by the SEC, during the period between effectiveness and the closing of the transaction, usually 3 business days. This results in a significant temporary increase in our required net capital. In some cases, the amount of securities underwritten by us could be limited by our net capital. Any significant reduction in our net capital, even if we were still in compliance with the SEC’s net capital rule for its retail and trading activities, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our investment banking activities. Competition All aspects of our business are highly competitive. In our general brokerage activities, we compete directly with numerous other broker-dealers, many of which are large well-known firms with substantially greater financial and personnel resources than us. Many of our competitors employ extensive advertising and actively solicit potential clients in order to increase business. In addition, brokerage firms compete by furnishing investment research publications to existing clients, the quality and breadth of which are considered important in the development of new business and the retention of existing clients. We also compete with a number of smaller regional brokerage firms. Some commercial banks and thrift institutions offer securities brokerage services. Many commercial banks offer a variety of investment banking services. Competition among financial services firms also exists for investment representatives and other personnel. The securities industry has become considerably more concentrated and more competitive since we were founded, as numerous securities firms have either ceased operations or have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This trend has been particularly pronounced among firms similar in size and business mix to us. In addition, companies not engaged primarily in the securities business, but with substantial financial resources, have acquired leading securities firms. These developments have increased competition from firms with greater capital resources than ours. In addition, various recent legislative and regulatory developments have tended to increase competition within the industry or reduce profits for the industry. The securities industry has experienced substantial commission discounting by broker-dealers competing for brokerage business. In addition, an increasing number of specialized firms offer “discount” services to individual customers. These firms generally effect transactions for their customers on an “execution only” basis without offering other services such as portfolio valuation, investment recommendations and 6 research. A growing number of discount brokerage firms offer their services over the Internet, further decreasing offered commission rates and increasing ease of use for customers. The continuation of such discounting and an increase in the number of new and existing firms offering discounts could adversely affect our business. In addition, rapid growth in the mutual fund industry is presenting potential customers of ours with an increasing number of alternatives to traditional stock brokerage accounts. In our investment banking activities, we compete with other brokerage firms, venture capital firms, banks and all other sources of capital for small, growing companies. Since we generally manage offerings smaller than $45 million, we do not typically compete with the investment banking departments of large, well-known national brokerage firms. Nevertheless, we occasionally manage larger offerings. In addition, large national and regional investment banking firms occasionally manage offerings of a size that is competitive with us, typically for fees and compensation less than that charged by us. When the market for initial public offerings is active, many small regional firms that do not typically engage in investment banking activities also begin to compete with us. Employees At March 1, 2007, we had 86 employees (of which 80 were full-time). Of these, 52 were executives and support staff and 34 were involved in brokerage activities and compensated primarily on a commission basis. We also had independent contractor arrangements with 54 independent contractors, all of whom are compensated solely on a commission basis. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In the course of operating a financial services business, we are exposed to a variety of risks. These risks include: Aspects of our business are volatile and affected by factors beyond our control. Our business depends heavily on the conditions of the financial and securities markets, which in turn are affected by domestic and foreign economic conditions generally. These conditions, which can be impacted by a variety of factors such as business trends, actual and proposed legislation, political considerations, inflation, interest rates, and the popular perceptions of the health of the economy, are outside of our control, and therefore inject significant amounts of uncertainty and volatility into our business and financial results. Volatility is compounded by our focus on small-cap companies. In sum, factors outside of our control significantly influence our business and financial results from year to year, and a downturn in the financial markets, securities markets or economic conditions generally likely would materially and adversely affect our business. Our ability to attract and retain customers may be affected by our reputation. The performance of companies whose securities we have underwritten or otherwise sold to our customers may affect our reputation with other potential syndicate and selling group members and institutional and other retail accounts and may also affect the amount of money in our customers’ portfolios available for the kinds of investments that we offer. We are subject to extensive regulation that could result in investigations, fines or other penalties. We are subject to a very high degree of regulation and are responsible for compliance with applicable regulations by all of our personnel. A significant regulatory infraction by us or any of our registered representatives could result in significant penalties, including the loss of our license to conduct securities business in one or more jurisdictions. 7 We face intense competition in our industry. Our business will suffer if we do not compete successfully. All aspects of our business and of the securities industry in general are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. We compete directly with national full-service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks and, to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. We also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms, hedge funds, and others. Many of our competitors have greater resources and offer more services than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively in any aspect of our business, our results of operations could suffer. Our future success depends on retaining existing management and hiring and assimilating new key employees, and our inability to attract or retain key personnel would materially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of Chester Paulson, our Chairman. Our success also will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract, retain or assimilate key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business. We are subject to an increased risk of legal proceedings, which may result in significant losses to us that we cannot recover. Claimants in these proceedings may be customers, employees, or regulatory agencies, among others, seeking damages for mistakes, errors, negligence or acts of fraud by our employees. Many aspects of our business subject us to substantial risks of potential liability to customers and to regulatory enforcement proceedings by state and federal regulators. Participants in the securities industry face an increasing amount of litigation and arbitration proceedings. Dissatisfied clients regularly make claims against securities firms and their brokers for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading and suitability, among other claims. These types of claims expose us to the risk of significant loss. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and we cannot assure investors that our risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. In our role as underwriter and selling agent, we may be liable if there are material misstatements or omissions of material information in prospectuses and other communications regarding underwritten offerings of securities. While we do not expect the outcome of any existing claims against us to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, we cannot assure you that these types of proceedings will not materially and adversely affect us. In addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the amount of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. As a public company, we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that require us to incur substantial expense and expose us to risk of non-compliance. As a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements. The cost of compliance with many of these requirements is substantial, not only in absolute terms but, more importantly, in relation to the overall scope of the operations of our company. Failure to comply with these requirements can have numerous adverse consequences including, but not limited to, our inability to file required periodic reports on a timely basis, loss of market confidence, delisting of our securities and/or governmental or private actions against us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these requirements in the future or that the cost of such compliance will not prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors. 8 Our directors control approximately 60 percent of our common stock and may have interests differing from those of other stockholders. At December 31, 2006, two of our directors controlled approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock, directly as stockholders and indirectly through control relationships with other stockholders. Chester Paulson, directly and indirectly, controlled approximately 50 percent of our outstanding common stock. Chester Paulson independently, or with the other director holding 10 percent of the outstanding common stock, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions including mergers, consolidations and the sale of substantially all of our assets. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring or merging with us, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 