Item 1A. Risk Factors In the execution of our business strategy, our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks. A summary of certain material risks is provided below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our company. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us and is intended only as a summary of certain material factors that could impact our operations in the industry in which we operate. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) contain additional information concerning these and other risks. We depend on payments from customers, and cost reduction pressure on these entities may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The health-care industry in which we operate currently faces significant cost reduction pressures as a result of constrained revenues from governmental and private revenue sources and increasing underlying medical care costs. We believe that these pressures will continue and possibly intensify. We believe that our programs are geared specifically to assist our customers in controlling the high costs associated with the treatment of chronic diseases and in fostering wellness and prevention through total population screening, health risk assessments, and supportive interventions; however, the pressures to reduce 9 costs in the short term may negatively affect our ability to sign and/or retain contracts. In addition, this focus on cost reduction may cause our customers to focus on contract restructurings that reduce the fees we receive for our services. These financial pressures could have a negative impact on our results of operations. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. The health plan industry continues to undergo a period of consolidation, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain health plan customers if they are acquired by other health plans which already have or are not interested in Health and Care Support programs. In addition, a reduction in the number of covered lives enrolled with our health plan customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently derive a large percentage of our revenues from two customers. The loss of, or the restructuring of a contract with, one or both of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because of the size of their membership and the number of programs purchased from us, we have a significant concentration of our revenues represented by contracts with two customers - Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota and CIGNA HealthCare, Inc. - each of which comprised over 10% of revenues in fiscal 2006 and collectively accounted for 38% of revenues. Although we believe that the full-year impact of other contracts signed in 2006, new contracts anticipated to be signed in 2007, and the expected increased revenues associated with the Axia acquisition will reduce our current revenue concentration, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be negatively and materially impacted by the loss or restructuring of a contract with a single large customer. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, these same two contracts each comprised more than 10% of revenues for the year, comprising in the aggregate approximately 38% and 44% of such revenues, respectively. The Health and Care Support industry is a relatively new segment of the health-care industry. The rapidly growing Health and Care Support industry is a relatively new segment of the overall health-care industry with many entrants marketing various services and products labeled as Health and Care Support. Companies have used the generic label of health and/or care support to characterize a wide range of activities, from the sale of medical supplies and drugs to demand management services. Because the industry is somewhat new, purchasers of these services have not had significant experience purchasing, evaluating or monitoring such services, which generally results in a lengthy sales cycle for new contracts. As the industry matures, the number of programs that customers have been purchasing has generally expanded from one or two programs to a more comprehensive suite of programs, while also typically increasing the terms from three years to five years. These changes result in a more sizable contract commitment that generally requires approval from the customer’s executive management and frequently the customer’s board of directors. Our business strategy includes developing new and additional products to complement our existing Health and Care Support services, as well as establishing additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. Our growth strategy focuses on developing new Health and Care Support programs to address chronic diseases and medical conditions as well as the overall health of all members. While we have considerable experience in Health and Care Support programs with a broad range of medical conditions, any new or modified programs will involve inherent risks of execution, such as our ability to implement our Health and Care Support programs within expected cost estimates; our ability to obtain adequate financing to provide the capital that may be necessary to support the growth of our operations; and our ability to deliver outcomes on any new products or services. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we expect to enter into 10 relationships, such as our strategic relationship with Medco, to establish additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. As we begin to offer new products through new or alternative distribution channels, we may face difficulties, such as potential customer overlap that may lead to pricing conflicts, which may adversely affect our business. If we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth and profitability may slow or decline. We have expanded and expect to continue to expand our products and services as well as our overall operations, both organically and through the acquisition of businesses and technologies that complement our Health and Care Support services. This expansion has created significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources. The inability to obtain and/or properly allocate sufficient resources or personnel to manage our growth may have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our inability to perform well under our contracted Health and Care Support programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to continue to grow and expand our business is contingent upon our ability to continue to achieve desired savings performance under our existing contracts and to favorably resolve contract billing and interpretation issues with our customers. Unusual and unforeseen patterns of health care utilization by individuals with diabetes, cardiac, respiratory and/or other diseases or conditions for which we provide services could adversely affect our ability to achieve desired savings and clinical outcomes. We depend on the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Identifying which members are eligible to receive our services and measuring our performance under our contracts are highly dependent upon the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Data acquisition, data quality control and data analysis are complex processes that carry a risk of untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data from our customers or flawed analysis of such data, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to recognize revenues. Our MHS pilots and certain other customer contracts are performance-based and a portion (up to 100%) of our fees may be refundable if certain performance targets are not achieved. Our cooperative agreements with CMS for the MHS pilots and certain other customer contracts provide that a portion of our fees (up to 100%) may be refundable to the customer if our programs do not achieve targeted savings performance. There is no guarantee that we will effect the necessary cost savings and clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts within the time frames contemplated and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to cost savings. In addition, our ability to provide financial guidance with respect to performance-based contracts is contingent upon our ability to accurately forecast performance and the timing of revenue recognition under the terms of our contracts ahead of data collection and reconciliation. We are currently pursuing opportunities to expand our Health and Care Support services in international markets. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in connection with pursuing business opportunities in international markets. Our success in the international markets will depend in part on our ability to anticipate the rate of market acceptance of Health and Care Support solutions and the individual market dynamics in potential international markets. The failure to accurately forecast the costs necessary to implement our strategy of establishing a presence in these markets could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, as a result of doing business in foreign markets, we are exposed to the potential adverse effects of currency fluctuations as well as any changes in tax laws. 11 The anticipated benefits of the pending acquisition of Axia may not be realized. We anticipate our pending acquisition of Axia will result in benefits including, among other things, enhanced revenues and a strong market position in providing health support for whole populations across the continuum of care. Specified conditions set forth in the Axia stock purchase agreement must be satisfied or waived to complete the acquisition, including receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals. If all of the conditions are not satisfied or waived, the acquisition either will not occur or will be delayed, and we may lose some or all of the intended benefits of the acquisition. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Axia acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we integrate Axia in an efficient and effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may experience difficulties associated with the integration of acquired businesses or technologies. We may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in effectively integrating any businesses and technologies that may be acquired as part of our overall growth strategy into our Health and Care Support platform. Integrating newly acquired organizations and technologies could be costly and time-consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not be successful in integrating these acquired businesses or technologies and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. We expect to incur additional leverage to finance the pending Axia acquisition. We expect to finance the purchase price for the pending Axia acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and by incurring additional indebtedness. Our ability to secure the debt financing is contingent upon us satisfying all of the necessary conditions of our financing commitment. While we anticipate that the additional indebtedness will be on terms similar to our existing Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement, dated September 19, 2005 (the “Second Amended Credit Agreement”), the new indebtedness may impose further restrictions on us, which could limit, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. Our ability to service our indebtedness following the completion of the acquisition will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. A failure of our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our ability to deliver Health and Care Support industry depends on effectively using information technology. We believe that our state-of-the-art electronic medical record and care enhancement center technology provides us with a competitive advantage in the industry; however, we expect to continually invest in updating and expanding technology. In some cases, we may have to make systems investments before we generate revenues from contracts with new customers. In addition, these system requirements expose us to technology obsolescence risks. Our revenues are subject to seasonal pressure from the disenrollment processes of employer customers of our contracted health plans. In addition, some of our outcomes-driven wellness programs are contracted directly with employers and are one year in length, often beginning on January 1. Employers typically make decisions on which health insurance carriers they will offer to their employees and also may allow employees to switch between health plans on an annual basis. These annual 12 membership disenrollment and re-enrollment processes of employers (whose employees are the health plan members) from health plans can result in a seasonal reduction in actual lives under management during our second fiscal quarter. Historically, we have found that a majority of employers and employees make these decisions effective December 31 of each year. An employer’s change in health plans or employees’ changes in health plan elections may cause a decrease in our actual lives under management for existing contracts as of January 1. Although these decisions may also cause a gain in enrollees as new employers sign on with our customers, the identification of new members eligible to participate in our programs is based on the submission of health-care claims, which lags enrollment by an indeterminate period. As a result, historically, actual lives under management for existing contracts have decreased between 6% and 8% on January 1 and have not been restored through new member identification until later in the fiscal year, thereby negatively affecting our revenues on existing contracts in our second fiscal quarter. However, the increasing demand for our Health and Care Support services from self-insured employer accounts, which generally begin their benefit year on January 1, has typically resulted in a net increase in actual lives under management on January 1. Another seasonal impact on actual lives could occur if a health plan decided to withdraw coverage altogether for a specific line of business, such as Medicare Advantage, or in a specific geographic area, thereby automatically disenrolling previously covered members. Historically, we have experienced minimal covered life disenrollment from such decisions. We face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other health-care and services providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business and care enhancement centers, including nurses and other health-care professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health-care businesses. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other health-care professionals. Because a significant percentage of our existing contracts consist of a fixed fee per disease member, we have a limited ability to pass along increased labor costs to existing customers. A failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other health-care professionals, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on profitability. We may face costly litigation that could force us to pay damages and/or harm our reputation. In the course of our business, we are subject to lawsuits, which may involve large claims and significant defense costs (see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”). Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management. Although we currently maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims, there can be no assurance that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. Although we believe that we have conducted our operations in full compliance with applicable statutory requirements and that we have meritorious defenses to outstanding claims, it is possible that resolution of these legal matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a particular financial reporting period. In addition, legal expenses associated with the defense of these matters may be material to our consolidated results of operations in a particular financial reporting period. Compliance with new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations or may require us to spend substantial amounts acquiring and implementing new information systems or modifying existing systems. 13 Our customers are subject to considerable state and federal government regulation. Many of these regulations are vaguely written and subject to differing interpretations that may, in certain cases, result in unintended consequences that could impact our ability to effectively deliver services. The current focus on regulatory and legislative efforts to protect the confidentiality and security of individually-identifiable health information, as evidenced by HIPAA, is one such example. We believe that federal regulations governing the confidentiality of individually-identifiable health information permit us to obtain individually-identifiable health information for Health and Care Support purposes from a health plan customer; however, state legislation or regulation could preempt federal legislation if it is more restrictive. Our customers must comply with federal regulations governing the security of electronic individually-identifiable health information. As discussed below, we are contractually required to comply with certain aspects of these confidentiality and security regulations. Although we continually monitor the extent to which specific state legislation or regulations may govern our operations, new federal or state legislation or regulation in this area that restricts our ability to obtain and handle individually-identifiable health information would have a material negative impact on our operations. Government regulators may interpret current regulations governing our operations in a manner that negatively impacts our ability to provide services. Broadly written Medicare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that are subject to varying interpretations may expose us to potential civil and criminal litigation regarding the structure of current and past contracts entered into with our customers, such as the civil lawsuit filed against us in 1994 as discussed under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We believe that our operations have not violated and do not violate the provisions of the fraud and abuse statutes and regulations; however, private individuals acting on behalf of the United States government, or government enforcement agencies themselves, could pursue a claim against us under a new or differing interpretation of these statutes and regulations. In addition, expanding the Health and Care Support industry to Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries in the MHS pilots awarded under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 and to Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans could lead to increased direct regulation of Health and Care Support services. Further, our participation in the MHS program and providing services to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries may result in our being subject directly to various federal laws and regulations, including provisions related to fraud and abuse, false claims and billing and reimbursement for services, and the False Claims Act. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 