Item 1A. Risk Factors In the execution of our business strategy, our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks. A summary of certain material risks is provided below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our company. This section does not describe all risks applicable 9 to us and is intended only as a summary of certain material factors that could impact our operations in the industry in which we operate. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain additional information concerning these and other risks. We depend on payments from customers, and cost reduction pressure on these entities may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The health care industry in which we operate currently faces significant cost reduction pressures as a result of increased competition, constrained revenues from governmental and private revenue sources, increasing underlying medical care costs, and general economic conditions. We believe that these pressures will continue and possibly intensify. We believe that our Health and Care Support solutions, which are geared to foster wellness and disease prevention and deliver interventions for people with chronic diseases and conditions, specifically assist our customers in controlling the high costs of healthcare; however, the pressures to reduce costs in the short term may negatively affect our ability to sign and/or retain contracts under existing terms or to restructure these contracts on terms that would not have a material negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, this focus on cost reduction may cause our customers to focus on contract restructurings that reduce the fees we receive for our services. These financial pressures could have a negative impact on our results of operations. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. The health plan industry continues to undergo a period of consolidation, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain health plan customers if they are acquired by other health plans which already have or are not interested in Health and Care Support programs. In addition, a reduction in the number of covered lives enrolled with our health plan customers or a decision by our health plan customers to take programs in-house could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently derive a large percentage of our revenues from two customers. The loss of, or the restructuring of a contract with, these or other large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because of the size of their membership and the number of programs purchased from us, CIGNA HealthCare, Inc. and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc. comprised approximately 20% and 10%, respectively, of our revenues in fiscal 2008. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in fiscal 2008. We anticipate that future revenues from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts will decrease due to a recent restructuring in the scope of our services with this customer. The Health and Care Support industry is a continually evolving segment of the health-care industry. The rapidly growing Health and Care Support industry is a continually evolving segment of the overall health-care industry with many entrants marketing various services and products labeled as Health and Care Support. Companies have used the generic label of health and/or care support to characterize a wide range of activities, from the sale of medical supplies and drugs to demand management services. Because the industry is continually evolving, purchasers of these services have not had significant experience purchasing, evaluating or monitoring the new products and services which are being developed, which generally results in a lengthy sales cycle for new contracts. As the industry matures, the number of programs that customers have been purchasing has generally expanded from one or two programs to a more comprehensive suite of programs, while also typically increasing the terms from between three to five years. These changes result in a 10 more sizable contract commitment that generally requires approval from the customer’s executive management and frequently the customer’s board of directors, thus elongating the sales process in some cases. Our business strategy is dependent in part on developing new and additional products to complement our existing Health and Care Support services, as well as establishing additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. Our strategy focuses on developing new Health and Care Support programs to address chronic diseases and medical conditions as well as the overall health and productivity of all members. While we have considerable experience in Health and Care Support solutions with a broad range of medical conditions, any new or modified programs will involve inherent risks of execution, such as our ability to implement our Health and Care Support programs within expected cost estimates; our ability to obtain adequate financing to provide the capital that may be necessary to support the growth of our operations; and our ability to deliver outcomes on any new products or services. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we may enter into relationships, such as our strategic relationship with Medco Health Solutions, Inc., to establish additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. As we begin to offer new products through new or alternative distribution channels, we may face difficulties, such as potential customer overlap that may lead to pricing conflicts, which may adversely affect our business. If we do not manage our operations successfully, our growth and profitability may slow or decline. We have expanded and expect to continue to expand our products and services as well as our overall operations, both organically and through the acquisition of businesses and technologies that complement our Health and Care Support solutions. This expansion has created significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources. The inability to obtain and/or properly allocate sufficient resources or personnel to manage our operations may have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our inability to meet or exceed the targets under our Health and Care Support contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to continue to grow and expand our business is contingent upon our ability to continue to achieve desired financial savings and clinical performance targets under our existing contracts and to favorably resolve contract billing and interpretation issues with our customers. Unusual and unforeseen patterns of health care utilization by individuals with diabetes, cardiac, respiratory and/or other diseases or conditions for which we provide services could adversely affect our ability to achieve desired financial savings and clinical outcomes. We depend on the timely receipt of accurate data from ourcustomers and ouraccurateanalysis of such data. Identifying which members are eligible to receive our services and measuring our performance under our contracts are highly dependent upon the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Data acquisition, data quality control and data analysis are complex processes that carry a risk of untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data from our customers or flawed analysis of such data, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to recognize revenues. Certain customer contracts are performance-based, and a portion (up to 100%) of our fees may be refundable if certain performance targets are not achieved. Certain customer contracts, including our contract with CMS for the Medicare Health Support pilot, provide that a portion of our fees (up to 100%) may be refundable to the customer if our programs do not 11 achieve targeted savings performance. There is no guarantee that we will effect the necessary cost savings and clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts within the time frames contemplated and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to cost savings. In addition, our ability to provide financial guidance with respect to performance-based contracts is contingent upon our ability to accurately forecast performance and the timing of revenue recognition under the terms of our contracts ahead of data collection and reconciliation. Our ability to recognize estimated annualized revenue in backlog is based on certain estimates. Our ability to recognize estimated annualized revenue in backlog in the manner and within the timeframe we expect is based on certain estimates regarding the implementation of our services. We cannot assure you that the amounts in backlog will ultimately result in revenues in the manner and within the timeframe we expect. Changes in macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our business. Economic difficulties in the credit markets and other macroeconomic conditions, such as a recession or the risk of a potential recession, may reduce the demand and/or the timing of purchases for our services from customers and potential customers. A loss of a customer or a reduction in a customer’s enrolled lives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, current economic conditions have created liquidity and credit constraints in the markets. Should the credit markets not improve in the near future, we cannot assure you that we would be able to secure additional financing if needed and, if such funds were available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. The expansion of our Health and Care Support services into international markets may subject us to additional regulatory and financial risks. We have recently expanded our Health and Care Support services into countries other than the United States and intend to continue expanding our international operations as part of our business strategy. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in connection with pursuing business opportunities in international markets. Our success in the international markets will depend in part on our ability to anticipate the rate of market acceptance of Health and Care Support solutions and the individual market dynamics and regulatory requirements in potential international markets. The failure to accurately forecast the costs necessary to implement our strategy of establishing a presence in these markets could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, as a result of doing business in foreign markets, we are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks we face within the United States. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations. Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. 12 We may experience difficulties associated with the integration of acquired businesses or technologies. We may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in effectively integrating any businesses and technologies, such as Axia, that may be acquired as part of our overall growth strategy into our Health and Care Support platform. Integrating newly acquired organizations and technologies could be costly and time-consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not be successful in integrating these acquired businesses or technologies and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets, the value of which could become impaired. We have recorded significant portions of the purchase price of certain acquisitions as goodwill and/or intangible assets. At August 31, 2008, we had approximately $484.3 million and $107.1 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired. If we determine that the carrying values of our goodwill and/or intangible assets are impaired, we may incur a non-cash charge to earnings which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment occurs. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future financial condition. On December 1, 2006, we entered into a Third Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement (the “Third Amended Credit Agreement”) in conjunction with the acquisition of Axia. The Third Amended Credit Agreement contains various financial covenants, restricts the payment of dividends, and limits the amount of repurchases of our common stock. As of August 31, 2008, our total long-term debt, including the current portion, was $348.2 million. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or to increases in interest rates, particularly with respect to the portion of our outstanding debt that is subject to variable interest rates; • potentially limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; • causing us to dedicate a portion of future cash flow from operations to service or pay down our debt, which reduces the cash available for other purposes, such as operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; and • possibly limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. Current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the financial services industry, have created constraints on liquidity and the ability to obtain credit in the markets. Should the credit markets not improve, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, and, if such funds were available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. 13 We are exposed to risks related to counterparty credit worthiness and non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. In order to manage our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness under the Third Amended Credit Agreement, we have entered into six interest rate swap agreements. Consequently, we are exposed to potential fluctuations in the fair value of the interest rate swaps in the event of a change in the credit worthiness of a counterparty or the non-performance by a counterparty to the interest rate swap agreements, which could negatively impact our results of operations. A failure of our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our ability to deliver Health and Care Support services depends on effectively using information technology. We believe that our state-of-the-art electronic health record and call center technology provides us with a competitive advantage in the industry; however, we expect to continually invest in updating and expanding our information technology. In some cases, we may have to make systems investments before we generate revenues from contracts with new customers. In addition, these system requirements expose us to technology obsolescence risks. Our revenues are subject to seasonal pressure from the disenrollment processes of employer customers of our contracted health plans. In addition, some of our contracts with employers, either direct or through their health plans, are one year in length, often beginning on January 1. Employers typically make decisions on which health insurance carriers they will offer to their employees and also may allow employees to switch between health plans on an annual basis. These annual membership disenrollment and re-enrollment processes of employers (whose employees are the health plan members) from health plans can result in a seasonal reduction in billed lives in January of each year. Historically, we have found that a majority of employers and employees make these decisions effective December 31 of each year. An employer’s change in health plans or employees’ changes in health plan elections may cause a decrease in our billed lives for existing contracts as of January 1. Although these decisions may also result in a gain in enrollees as new employers sign on with our customers, the identification of new members eligible to participate in our programs is based on the submission of health-care claims, which lags enrollment by an indeterminate period. As a result, billed lives for our existing fully insured customers have historically decreased by up to 8% on January 1 and have not been restored through new member identification until later in the fiscal year, thereby negatively affecting our revenues on existing contracts in January of each year. However, the increasing demand for our Health and Care Support services from self-insured employer accounts, which generally begin their benefit year on January 1, has typically resulted in a net increase in total billed lives on January 1. Another seasonal impact on billed lives could occur if a health plan decided to withdraw coverage altogether for a specific line of business, such as Medicare Advantage, or in a specific geographic area, thereby automatically disenrolling previously covered members. Historically, we have experienced minimal covered life disenrollment from such decisions. We face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other health-care and services providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business and call centers, including nurses and other health-care professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has 14 become a significant operating issue to health-care businesses. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other health-care professionals. Because a significant percentage of our existing contracts consist of a fixed fee per member, we have a limited ability to pass along increased labor costs to existing customers. A failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other health-care professionals, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on profitability. We are party to litigation that could force us to pay significant damages and/or harm our reputation. We are subject to several lawsuits, which potentially involve large claims and significant defense costs (see Item 3: “Legal Proceedings”). These lawsuits and any other claims that we may face, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management. Although we currently maintain liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. Although we believe that we have conducted our operations in full compliance with applicable statutory requirements and that we have meritorious defenses to outstanding claims, it is possible that resolution of these legal matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, legal expenses associated with the defense of these matters may be material to our consolidated results of operations in a particular financial reporting period. Compliance with new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations or may require us to spend substantial amounts acquiring and implementing new information systems or modifying existing systems. Our customers are subject to considerable state and federal government regulation. Many of these regulations are vaguely written and subject to differing interpretations that may, in certain cases, result in unintended consequences that could impact our ability to effectively deliver services. The current focus on regulatory and legislative efforts to protect the confidentiality and security of individually-identifiable health information, as evidenced by HIPAA, is one such example. We believe that federal regulations governing the confidentiality of individually-identifiable health information permit us to obtain individually-identifiable health information for Health and Care Support purposes from a covered entity; however, state legislation or regulation could preempt federal legislation if it is more restrictive. Our customers must comply with federal regulations governing the security of electronic individually-identifiable health information. We are contractually required to comply with certain aspects of these confidentiality and security regulations. Although we continually monitor the extent to which federal and state legislation or regulations may govern our operations, new federal or state legislation or regulation in this area that restricts our ability to obtain and handle individually-identifiable health information or that otherwise restricts our operations would have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Government regulators may interpret current regulations or adopt new legislation governing our operations in a manner that subjects us to penalties or negatively impacts our ability to provide services. Broadly written Medicare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that are subject to varying interpretations may expose us to potential civil and criminal litigation regarding the structure of current and past contracts entered into with our customers, such as the civil lawsuit filed against us in 1994 as discussed under Item 3: “Legal Proceedings.” We believe that our operations have not violated and do not violate the provisions of the fraud and abuse statutes and regulations; however, private individuals acting on behalf of the 15 United States government, or government enforcement agencies themselves, could pursue a claim against us under a new or differing interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Expanding the Health and Care Support industry to Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans could lead to increased direct regulation of Health and Care Support services. Further, providing services to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries may result in our being subject directly to various federal laws and regulations, including provisions related to fraud and abuse, false claims and billing and reimbursement for services, and the federal False Claims Act. In addition, certain of our services, including health utilization management and certain claims payment functions, require licensure by government agencies. We are subject to a variety of legal requirements in order to obtain and maintain such licenses. Little guidance is available to determine the scope of some of these aforementioned requirements. Failure to obtain and maintain any required licenses or failure to comply with other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material negative impact on our operations. Changes in laws governing reimbursement to health plans providing services under governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid may adversely affect our business. Legislative and regulatory bodies may continue to reduce the funding of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including Medicare Advantage, in an effort to reduce overall federal health-care spending. In recent years, federal legislation has reduced or significantly altered Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. These changes, future legislative initiatives or government regulation could adversely affect our operations or reduce the demand for our services. Certain of our professional health-care employees, such as nurses, must comply with individual licensing requirements. All of our health-care professionals who are subject to licensing requirements, such as the professionals located at a call center, are licensed in the state in which they are physically present. Multiple state licensing requirements for health-care professionals who provide services telephonically over state lines may require us to license some of our health-care professionals in more than one state. We continually monitor legislative, regulatory and judicial developments in telemedicine; however, new agency interpretations, federal or state legislation or regulations, or judicial decisions could increase the requirement for multi-state licensing of all call center health professionals, which would increase our costs of services. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 