Item 1A. Risk Factors In the execution of our business strategy, our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks. A summary of certain material risks is provided below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving the Company. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us and is intended only as a summary of certain material factors that could impact our operations in the industry in which we operate. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Report”) contain additional information concerning these and other risks. We depend on payments from customers, and cost reduction pressure on our customers may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The healthcare industry in which we operate currently faces significant cost reduction pressures as a result of increased competition, constrained revenues from governmental and private revenue sources, increasing underlying medical care costs, and general economic conditions. We believe that these pressures will continue and possibly intensify. We believe that our solutions, which are geared to foster well-being improvement by engaging people in health improvement programs, specifically assist our customers in controlling the high costs of healthcare; however, the pressures to reduce costs in the short term may negatively affect our ability to sign and/or retain contracts under existing terms or to restructure these contracts on terms that would not have a material 10 negative impact on our results of operations. These financial pressures could have a negative impact on our results of operations. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. The health plan industry continues to undergo a period of consolidation, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain health plan customers if they are acquired by other health plans that already participate in competing programs or are not interested in our programs. In addition, a reduction in the number of covered lives enrolled with our health plan customers or a decision by our health plan customers to take programs in-house could adversely affect our results of operations. Our health plan customers are subject to increased obligations under PPACA, including new benefit mandates, limitations on exclusions and factors used for rate setting, requirements for MLRs and increased taxes. In determining how to meet these requirements, health plan customers or prospective customers may seek reduced fees or choose to reduce or delay the purchase of our services. In addition, PPACA mandates the establishment of American Health Benefit Exchanges (“Exchanges”), which must be fully operational by January 1, 2014. PPACA requires that each state establish or participate in an Exchange where individuals may compare and purchase health insurance. Health plans participating in an Exchange must offer a set of minimum benefits and may elect to offer additional benefits. Chronic disease management is classified as a minimum essential health benefit, but the parameters of the chronic disease management benefit are not yet defined by regulation. It is possible that our services will not qualify under this definition. We cannot predict whether individuals who are currently receiving our services will switch to health plans offered through the Exchanges that do not include our services. If we are unable to provide services to health plans participating in Exchanges, if health plans in the Exchanges that engage our services are not successful or if the Exchanges otherwise reduce the number of members receiving our services or the payments we receive, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We currently derive a significant percentage of our revenues from one customer. Because of the size of its membership, Humana comprised approximately 11.5% of our revenues in 2012. Our primary contract with Humana continues through 2016. The loss of, or the restructuring of a contract with, this or other large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in 2012. Our business strategy is dependent in part on developing new and additional products to complement our existing services, as well as establishing additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. Our strategy focuses on helping people adopt or maintain healthy behaviors, reducing health-related risk factors, and optimizing care for identified health conditions. While we have considerable experience in solutions for a broad range of health conditions, any new or modified programs will involve inherent risks of execution, such as our ability to implement our programs within expected timelines or cost estimates; our ability to obtain adequate financing to provide the capital that may be necessary to support our operations and to support or guarantee our performance under new contracts; and our ability to deliver outcomes on any new products or services. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we may enter into relationships to establish additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. As we offer products through new or alternative distribution channels, we may face difficulties, such as potential customer overlap that may lead to pricing conflicts, which may adversely affect our business. Failure to successfully execute on the terms of our contracts could result in significant harm to our business. Our ability to grow and expand our business is contingent upon our ability to achieve desired performance metrics, cost savings, and/or clinical outcomes improvements under our existing contracts and to favorably resolve contract billing and interpretation issues with our customers. Some of our contracts place a portion of our fees at risk based on achieving such metrics, savings, and/or improvements. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to contractually required performance metrics, cost savings and/or clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts within the expected time frames. Unusual and unforeseen patterns of healthcare utilization by individuals with diseases or conditions for which we provide services could adversely affect our ability to achieve desired 11 performance metrics, cost savings, and clinical outcomes. Our inability to meet or exceed the targets under our customer contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Also, our ability to provide financial guidance with respect to performance-based contracts is contingent upon our ability to accurately forecast variables that affect performance and the timing of revenue recognition under the terms of our contracts ahead of data collection and reconciliation. In addition, certain of our contracts are increasing in complexity, requiring integration of data, systems, people, programs and services, the execution of sophisticated business activities, and the delivery of a broad array of services to large numbers of people who may be geographically dispersed. The failure to successfully manage and execute the terms of these agreements could result in the loss of fees and/or contracts and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Identifying which members may benefit from receiving our services and measuring our performance under our contracts are highly dependent upon the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Data acquisition, data quality control and data analysis are complex processes that carry a risk of untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data from our customers or flawed analysis of such data, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to recognize revenues. Our ability to achieve estimated annualized revenue in backlog is based on certain estimates. Our ability to achieve estimated annualized revenue in backlog in the manner and within the timeframe we expect is based on certain estimates regarding the implementation of our services. We cannot assure you that the amounts in backlog will ultimately result in revenues in the manner and within the timeframe we expect. Changes in macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our business. Economic difficulties and other macroeconomic conditions could reduce the demand and/or the timing of purchases for certain of our services from customers and potential customers. A loss of a significant customer or a reduction in a customer’s enrolled lives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, changes in economic conditions could create liquidity and credit constraints. We cannot assure you that we would be able to secure additional financing if needed and, if such funds were available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. The expansion of our services into international markets subjects us to additional business, regulatory and financial risks. We provide health improvement programs and services in Brazil, Australia and France, and we intend to continue expanding our international operations as part of our business strategy. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in connection with pursuing business opportunities in international markets. Our success in the international markets will depend in part on our ability to anticipate the rate of market acceptance of our solutions and the individual market dynamics and regulatory requirements in potential international markets. Because the international market for our services is relatively immature and also involves many new solutions, there is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve the necessary cost savings and clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts with international customers within the expected time frames and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to those outcomes. The failure to accurately forecast the costs necessary to implement our strategy of establishing a presence in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as a result of doing business in foreign markets, we are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks we face within the United States. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other 12 activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations. Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. We may experience difficulties associated with the implementation and/or integration of new businesses, services (including outsourced services), or technologies. We may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in effectively implementing and/or integrating acquired businesses, services (including outsourced services), or technologies into our platform. Implementing internally-developed solutions and/or integrating newly acquired businesses, services (including outsourced services), and technologies could be costly and time-consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not be successful in implementing and/or integrating these new businesses, services, or technologies and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. The performance of our business and the level of our indebtedness could prevent us from meeting the obligations under our debt agreement or have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital, or our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. On June 8, 2012, we entered into the Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement (the “Fifth Amended Credit Agreement”), which was amended on February 5, 2013. As of December 31, 2012, our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $287.6 million. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The Fifth Amended Credit Agreement contains various financial covenants, restricts the payment of dividends, and limits the amount of repurchases of our common stock. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Fifth Amended Credit Agreement, in which all amounts outstanding under the Fifth Amended Credit Agreement may become immediately due and payable, and all commitments under the Fifth Amended Credit Agreement to extend further credit may be terminated. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or our ability to react to changes in the economy or industry by, among other things: · increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions, loss of revenue and/or profit margins in our business, or to increases in interest rates, particularly with respect to the portion of our outstanding debt that is subject to variable interest rates; · potentially limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; · causing us to dedicate a portion of future cash flow from operations to service or pay down our debt, which reduces the cash available for other purposes, such as operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; and · possibly limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets, the value of which could become impaired. We have recorded significant portions of the purchase price of certain acquisitions as goodwill and/or intangible assets. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $338.7 million and $90.2 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively. We review goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization for impairment on an annual basis (during the fourth quarter) or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If we determine that the carrying values of our goodwill and/or intangible assets are impaired, we may incur a non-cash charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment occurs. 13 A failure of our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our ability to deliver our services depends on effectively using information technology. We expect to continually invest in updating and expanding our information technology capabilities. In some cases, we may have to make systems investments before we generate revenues from contracts with new customers. In addition, these system requirements expose us to technology obsolescence risks. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of a significant amount of health information about the participants of our programs. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect the health information of their members, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our services. We rely upon our information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business. These systems and our operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by our employees, data privacy or security breaches, computer viruses, computer hacking, network penetration or other illegal intrusions or other unexpected events. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems, regardless of the cause, could adversely impact our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other healthcare and services providers in recruiting qualified management, including executives with the required skills and experience to operate and grow our business, and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business and well-being improvement call centers, including nurses, health coaches, and other healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses, experienced health coaches, and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare businesses. All of these challenges may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified management and other professionals. A failure to attract and retain qualified management, nurses, health coaches, and other healthcare professionals, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our industry is a rapidly evolving and highly competitive segment of the healthcare industry. The rapidly growing industry in which we operate is a continually evolving segment of the overall healthcare industry with many entities, whose financial, research, staff, and marketing resources may exceed our resources, marketing a variety of population health improvement services and other services to health plans, integrated healthcare systems, self-insured employers, and government entities, or announcing an intention to offer such services. We believe we have advantages over our competitors because of the breadth and depth of our well-being improvement capabilities, including our scope of strategic relationships, state-of-the-art well-being improvement call center technology linked to our proprietary information technology, predictive modeling capabilities, behavior-change techniques, the comprehensive recruitment and training of our clinical colleagues, our experienced management team, the comprehensive clinical nature of our product offerings, our established reputation for providing well-being improvement services to members with health risk factors or chronic diseases, and the proven financial and clinical outcomes of our programs. However, we cannot assure you that we can compete effectively with other companies such as those noted above. If we lose the services of our Chief Executive Officer or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our success depends in large part upon the continued service of our senior management team. In particular, we believe that our Chief Executive Officer, Ben R. Leedle, Jr., is critical to our strategic direction and is uniquely positioned to lead the Company through the current transformational period in the healthcare industry that is largely due to the changes resulting from healthcare reform. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer, even temporarily, or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 We are party to litigation that could force us to pay significant damages and/or harm our reputation. We are subject to certain legal proceedings, which potentially involve large claims and significant defense costs (see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”). These legal proceedings and any other claims that we may face, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management. Although we currently maintain liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. Although we believe that we have conducted our operations in full compliance with applicable statutory and contractual requirements and that we have meritorious defenses to outstanding claims, it is possible that resolution of these legal matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, legal expenses associated with the defense of these matters may be material to our results of operations in a particular financial reporting period. Compliance with new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations or may require us to spend substantial amounts acquiring and implementing new information systems or modifying existing systems. Our customers are subject to considerable state and federal government regulation. Many of these regulations are vaguely written and subject to differing interpretations that may, in certain cases, result in unintended consequences that could impact our ability to effectively deliver services. We believe that federal requirements governing the confidentiality of individually-identifiable health information permit us to obtain individually-identifiable health information for well-being improvement purposes from a covered entity; however, state legislation or regulations could require additional and more restrictive security regulations. We are required by contract, the services we provide, ARRA and implementing regulations to comply with most requirements of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. We may be subject to criminal or civil penalties for violations of these regulations. The 2013 regulations implementing many of these ARRA requirements will likely require amendments to existing agreements with our customers and subcontractors. In addition, the regulations create a presumption that non-permitted uses and disclosures of unsecured individually identifiable health information constitute breaches for which notice must be made by us or our customers to affected individuals and, in some cases, the media, unless it can be demonstrated that there is a low probability that the information has been compromised. This presumption and revised standard for determining whether a non-permitted use or disclosure constitutes a breach may result in a greater number of incidents being classified as breaches and, thus, a greater number of required notifications. Although we continually monitor the extent to which federal and state legislation or regulations may govern our operations, new federal or state legislation or regulations in this area that restrict our ability to obtain and handle individually-identifiable health information or that otherwise restrict our operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Government regulators may interpret current regulations or adopt new legislation governing our operations in a manner that subjects us to penalties or negatively impacts our ability to provide services. Broadly written Medicare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that are subject to varying interpretations may expose us to potential civil and criminal litigation regarding the structure of current and past contracts entered into with our customers. Expanding the well-being and health management industry to Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans could lead to increased direct regulation of well-being and health management services. Further, providing services to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries may result in our being subject directly to various federal laws and regulations, including provisions related to fraud and abuse, false claims and billing and reimbursement for services, and the federal False Claims Act. In addition, certain of our services, including health utilization management and certain claims payment functions, require licensure by government agencies. We are subject to a variety of legal requirements in order to obtain and maintain such licenses, but little guidance is available to determine the scope of some of these requirements. Failure to obtain and maintain any required licenses or failure to comply with other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material negative impact on our operations. 15 Certain of our professional healthcare employees, such as nurses, must comply with individual licensing requirements. All of our healthcare professionals who are subject to licensing requirements, such as the professionals located at a well-being improvement call center, are licensed in the state in which they are physically present. Multiple state licensing requirements for healthcare professionals who provide services telephonically over state lines may require us to license some of our healthcare professionals in more than one state. We continually monitor legislative, regulatory and judicial developments in telemedicine; however, new agency interpretations, federal or state legislation or regulations, or judicial decisions could increase the requirement for multi-state licensing of all well-being improvement call center health professionals, which would increase our costs of services and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Healthcare reform legislation may result in a reduction to our revenues from government health plans and private insurance companies. Among other things, PPACA seeks to decrease the number of uninsured individuals and expand coverage through the expansion of public programs and private sector health insurance and a number of health insurance market reforms. PPACA also contains several provisions that encourage the utilization of preventive services and wellness programs, such as those provided by the Company. However, PPACA also contains various provisions that directly affect the customers or prospective customers that contract for our services and may increase their costs and/or reduce their revenues. For example, PPACA prohibits commercial health plans from using gender, health status, family history, or occupation to set premium rates, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions, and bans annual benefit limits. In addition, PPACA mandates minimum MLRs for health plans such that the percentage of health coverage premium revenue spent on healthcare medical costs and quality improvement expenses must be at least 80% for individual and small group health plans and 85% for large group coverage and Medicare Advantage plans, with policyholders receiving rebates, and CMS receiving refunds in the case of Medicare Advantage plans, if the actual loss ratios fall below these minimums. The MLR requirements were implemented beginning in January 2011 for commercial plans and will begin in 2014 for Medicare Advantage plans. PPACA also reduces funding to Medicare Advantage programs, which may cause some Medicare Advantage plans to raise premiums or limit benefits. On February 15, 2013, CMS released preliminary benchmark payment rates for Medicare Advantage plans for calendar year 2014. The preliminary rates were expected to be lower than rates in 2013, but the magnitude of the proposed reduction was greater than generally anticipated by industry experts. These proposed payment rates are preliminary and could change when the final rates are announced on April 1, 2013. While we believe that our programs and services specifically assist our customers in controlling their costs and improving their competitiveness, it is possible that the reforms imposed by PPACA will adversely affect the profitability of our customers and cause our customers or prospective customers to reduce or delay the purchase of our services or to demand reduced fees. Further, demand for our programs could be reduced if Medicare Advantage plans respond to PPACA funding reductions or other changes by eliminating our programs or by limiting or changing benefits in a manner that causes some Medicare Advantage beneficiaries to terminate their Medicare Advantage coverage. As a result, if the final benchmark payment rates for Medicare Advantage plans for 2014 are materially lower than current rates, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Because of PPACA’s complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, remaining or new court challenges, and possible amendment or repeal, we are unable to predict all of the ways in which PPACA could impact the Company. We could also be impacted by future healthcare reform legislative initiatives and/or government regulation. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 