Risk Factors” above. While many of the governmental and regulatory requirements affecting health-care delivery do not directly affect us, our client health plans and hospitals must comply with a variety of regulations including the licensing and reimbursement requirements of federal, state and local agencies and the requirements of municipal building codes, health codes and local fire departments. Certain of our professional health-care employees, such as nurses, must comply with individual licensing requirements. All of our health-care professionals who are subject to licensing requirements are licensed in the state in which they are physically present, such as the professionals located at a care enhancement center. Multiple state licensing requirements for health-care professionals who provide services telephonically over state lines may require us to license some of our health-care professionals in more than one state. We continually monitor legislative, regulatory and judicial developments in telemedicine; however, new judicial decisions, agency interpretations, or federal or state legislation or regulations could increase the requirement for multi-state licensing of all care enhancement center health professionals, which would increase our administrative costs. Changes in laws governing reimbursement under governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid may affect us. Legislative and regulatory bodies may continue to reduce the funding of the Medicare and Medicaid programs in an effort to reduce overall federal health-care spending. In recent years, federal legislation has reduced or significantly altered Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements to 11 most hospitals. These changes, future legislative initiatives or government regulation could adversely affect our operations or reduce the demand for our services. Federal privacy regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA extensively restrict the use and disclosure of individually-identifiable health information by certain entities. We are contractually required to comply with certain aspects of the regulations. Further, we are required to comply with any applicable state laws or regulations related to privacy that are more restrictive than the federal privacy laws. Beginning April 20, 2005, health plans, most health-care providers and certain other entities are required to comply with federal security regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA, which require the use of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic individually-identifiable health information. We are contractually required to comply with certain aspects of the security regulations. Various federal and state laws regulate the relationships among providers of health-care services, other health-care businesses and physicians. The “fraud and abuse” provisions of the Social Security Act provide civil and criminal penalties and potential exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs for persons or businesses who offer, pay, solicit or receive remuneration in order to induce referrals of patients covered by federal health-care programs (which include Medicare, Medicaid, TriCare and other federally funded health programs). While we believe that our business arrangements with our client hospitals, health plans and medical directors comply with these statutes, these fraud and abuse provisions are broadly written, and we do not yet know the full extent of their application. Therefore, we are unable to predict the effect, if any, of broad enforcement interpretation of these fraud and abuse provisions. Further, the health-care industry is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. For example, federal law contains various prohibitions related to false statements and false claims, some of which apply to private payors as well as federal programs. Our participation in the Chronic Care Improvement Program being administered by CMS may subject us directly to various laws and regulations applicable to entities contracting to provide services to federal programs, including but not limited to provisions related to billing and reimbursement and the False Claims Act. Violations of the False Claims Act are punishable by treble damages and penalties of up to $11,000 per false claim. Actions may be brought under the False Claims Act by the government as well as by private individuals, known as “whistleblowers,” who are permitted to share in any settlement or judgment. When a private party brings an action under the False Claims Act under the whistleblower provisions, the defendant will generally not be aware of the lawsuit until the government makes a determination whether it will intervene and take a lead in the litigation. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Although liability under the False Claims Act arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government, the False Claims Act defines the term “knowingly” broadly. Thus, although simple negligence generally will not give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a claim with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity can constitute “knowingly” submitting a claim. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that entities who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the “fraud and abuse” provisions of the Social Security Act, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. From time to time, participants in the health care industry, including our company, may be subject to actions under the False Claims Act, and it is not possible to predict the impact of such actions. Insurance We maintain professional malpractice, directors and officers, errors and omissions, and general liability insurance for all of our locations and operations. While we believe our insurance coverage is adequate for our current operations, it might not be sufficient to cover all future claims. In recent years, 12 the cost of liability and other forms of insurance has increased significantly. Such insurance might not continue to be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. We also maintain property and workers compensation insurance with commercial carriers for each of our locations; these policies contain relatively standard commercial terms and conditions. Employees As of October 18, 2005, we had 1,762 full-time employees and 469 part-time employees in the following general classifications: 1,583 health-care professionals, including nurses, counselors and dietitians; 132 field-based management and administrative personnel; and 516 operations support and management personnel. Our employees are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements. We believe we have a good relationship with our employees. Available Information Our Internet address is www.americanhealthways.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 