Item 1A. Risk Factors In the execution of our business strategy, our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks. A summary of certain material risks is provided below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our company. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us and is intended only as a summary of certain material factors that could impact our operations in the industry in which we operate. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain additional information concerning these and other risks. We depend on payments from customers, and cost reduction pressure on these entities may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The healthcare industry in which we operate currently faces significant cost reduction pressures as a result of increased competition, constrained revenues from governmental and private revenue sources, increasing underlying medical care costs, and general economic conditions. We believe that these pressures will continue and possibly intensify. We believe that our solutions, which are geared to foster wellness and disease prevention and provide access to health improvement programs, specifically assist our customers in controlling the high costs of healthcare; however, the pressures to reduce costs in the short term may negatively affect our ability to sign and/or retain contracts under existing terms or to restructure these contracts on terms that would not have a material negative impact on our results of operations. These financial pressures could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 10 A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. The health plan industry continues to undergo a period of consolidation, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain health plan customers if they are acquired by other health plans which already have or are not interested in our programs. In addition, a reduction in the number of covered lives enrolled with our health plan customers or a decision by our health plan customers to take programs in-house could adversely affect our results of operations. As discussed below, the uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform may cause our health plan customers or prospective customers to reduce or delay the purchase of our services. We currently derive a large percentage of our revenues from one customer. The loss of, or the restructuring of a contract with, this or other large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because of the size of its membership and the number of programs purchased from us, CIGNA HealthCare, Inc. comprised approximately 19% of our revenues in fiscal 2009. Our contract with CIGNA continues into 2013. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in fiscal 2009. Our industry is a continually evolving segment of the healthcare industry. The rapidly growing industry in which we operate is a continually evolving segment of the overall healthcare industry with many entrants marketing various services and products labeled as wellness and prevention, disease management, health management, health support and care support. Companies have used the generic labels of wellness, prevention, disease management and/or health management to characterize a wide range of activities, from the sale of medical supplies and drugs to demand management services. Because the industry is continually evolving, purchasers of these services have not had significant experience purchasing, evaluating or monitoring the new products and services which are being developed, which generally results in a lengthy sales cycle for new contracts. As the industry matures, the number of programs that customers have been purchasing has generally expanded from one or two programs to a more comprehensive suite of programs. These changes result in a sizable contract commitment that generally requires approval from the customer’s executive management, thus elongating the sales process in some cases. Our business strategy is dependent in part on developing new and additional products to complement our existing services, as well as establishing additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. Our strategy focuses on keeping healthy people healthy, mitigating and delaying the progression of disease associated with family or lifestyle risk factors, and optimizing care for those who are already affected by health conditions or disease. While we have considerable experience in solutions with a broad range of medical conditions, any new or modified programs will involve inherent risks of execution, such as our ability to implement our programs within expected timelines or cost estimates; our ability to obtain adequate financing to provide the capital that may be necessary to support our operations and to support or guarantee our performance under new contracts; and our ability to deliver outcomes on any new products or services. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we may enter into relationships, such as our strategic relationship with Medco Health Solutions, Inc., to establish additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. As we offer products through new or alternative distribution channels, we may face difficulties, such as potential customer overlap that may lead to pricing conflicts, which may adversely affect our business. 11 Our inability to meet or exceed the targets under our customer contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to grow and expand our business is contingent upon our ability to achieve desired financial savings, clinical performance targets, and productivity improvement under our existing contracts and to favorably resolve contract billing and interpretation issues with our customers. Unusual and unforeseen patterns of healthcare utilization by individuals with diabetes, cardiac, respiratory and/or other diseases or conditions for which we provide services could adversely affect our ability to achieve desired financial savings and clinical outcomes. We depend on the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Identifying which members are eligible to receive our services and measuring our performance under our contracts are highly dependent upon the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Data acquisition, data quality control and data analysis are complex processes that carry a risk of untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data from our customers or flawed analysis of such data, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to recognize revenues. Certain customer contracts are performance-based, and all or a portion of our fees may be refundable if certain performance targets are not achieved. Certain customer contracts provide that all or a portion of our fees may be refundable to the customer if our programs do not achieve targeted savings performance. There is no guarantee that we will effect the necessary cost savings and clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts within the time frames contemplated and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to cost savings. In addition, our ability to provide financial guidance with respect to performance-based contracts is contingent upon our ability to accurately forecast performance and the timing of revenue recognition under the terms of our contracts ahead of data collection and reconciliation. Our ability to recognize estimated annualized revenue in backlog is based on certain estimates. Our ability to recognize estimated annualized revenue in backlog in the manner and within the timeframe we expect is based on certain estimates regarding the implementation of our services. We cannot assure you that the amounts in backlog will ultimately result in revenues in the manner and within the timeframe we expect. Changes in macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our business. Economic difficulties in the credit markets and other macroeconomic conditions, such as the current recession, have reduced the demand and/or the timing of purchases for certain of our services from customers and potential customers. A loss of a customer or a reduction in a customer’s enrolled lives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, current economic conditions have created liquidity and credit constraints in the markets. We cannot assure you that we would be able to secure additional financing if needed and, if such funds were available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. 12 The expansion of our services into international markets subjects us to additional business, regulatory and financial risks. We intend to continue expanding our international operations as part of our business strategy. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in connection with pursuing business opportunities in international markets. Our success in the international markets will depend in part on our ability to anticipate the rate of market acceptance of our solutions and the individual market dynamics and regulatory requirements in potential international markets. Because the international market for our services is relatively immature with varied healthcare delivery systems and involves many first-time purchasers of our services, there is no guarantee that we will be able to effect the necessary cost savings and clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts with international customers within the tim e frames contemplated and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to those outcomes. The failure to accurately forecast the costs necessary to implement our strategy of establishing a presence in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as a result of doing business in foreign markets, we are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks we face within the United States. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations. Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. We may experience difficulties associated with the implementation and/or integration of new businesses or technologies. We may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in effectively implementing and/or integrating new businesses and technologies into our platform. Implementing internally-developed solutions and/or integrating newly acquired organizations and technologies could be costly and time-consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not be successful in implementing and/or integrating these new businesses or technologies and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future financial condition. On December 1, 2006, we entered into a Third Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement (the “Third Amended Credit Agreement”) in conjunction with the acquisition of Axia. The Third Amended Credit Agreement contains various financial covenants, restricts the payment of dividends, and limits the amount of repurchases of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, our total long-term debt, including the current portion, was $256.5 million. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by, among other things: · increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or to increases in interest rates, particularly with respect to the portion of our outstanding debt that is subject to variable interest rates; 13 · potentially limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; · causing us to dedicate a portion of future cash flow from operations to service or pay down our debt, which reduces the cash available for other purposes, such as operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; and · possibly limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. Current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the financial services industry, have created constraints on liquidity and the ability of some entities to obtain credit from banks or in the capital markets. We cannot assure you that we would always be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, and, if such funds were available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. We are exposed to risks related to counterparty creditworthiness and non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. In order to manage our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness under the Third Amended Credit Agreement, we have entered into eight interest rate swap agreements. Consequently, we are exposed to potential fluctuations in the fair value of the interest rate swaps in the event of a change in the creditworthiness of a counterparty or the non-performance by a counterparty to the interest rate swap agreements, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets, the value of which could become impaired. We have recorded significant portions of the purchase price of certain acquisitions as goodwill and/or intangible assets. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $496.4 million and $101.0 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired. If we determine that the carrying values of our goodwill and/or intangible assets are impaired, we may incur a non-cash charge to earnings which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment occurs and/or could impact our compliance with the covenant requirements of the Third Amended Credit Agreement. A failure of our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our ability to deliver our services depends on effectively using information technology. We believe that our state-of-the-art electronic health record and call center technology provides us with a competitive advantage in the industry; however, we expect to continually invest in updating and expanding our information technology. In some cases, we may have to make systems investments before we generate revenues from contracts with new customers. In addition, these system requirements expose us to technology obsolescence risks. In addition, the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of a significant amount of health information about the participants in our programs. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect the health information of their members, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our services. 14 Our revenues are subject to seasonal pressure from the disenrollment processes of employer customers of our contracted health plans. In addition, some of our contracts with employers, either direct or through their health plans, are one year in length, often beginning on January 1. Employers typically make decisions on which health insurance carriers they will offer to their employees and also may allow employees to switch between health plans on an annual basis. These annual membership disenrollment and re-enrollment processes of employers (whose employees are the health plan members) from health plans can result in a seasonal reduction in billed lives in January of each year. Another seasonal impact on billed lives could occur if a health plan decided to withdraw coverage altogether for a specific line of business, such as Medicare Advantage, or in a specific geographic area, thereby automatically disenrolling previously covered members. We face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other healthcare and services providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business and call centers, including nurses and other healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare businesses. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. A failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other healthcare professionals, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on profitability. We are party to litigation that could force us to pay significant damages and/or harm our reputation. We are subject to certain legal proceedings, which potentially involve large claims and significant defense costs (see Item 3: “Legal Proceedings”). These legal proceedings and any other claims that we may face, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management. Although we currently maintain liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. Although we believe that we have conducted our operations in full compliance with applicable statutory and contractual requirements and that we have meritorious defenses to outstanding claims, it is possible that resolution of these legal matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, legal expenses associated with the defense of these matters may be material to our consolidated results of operations in a particular financial reporting period. Compliance with new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations or may require us to spend substantial amounts acquiring and implementing new information systems or modifying existing systems. Our customers are subject to considerable state and federal government regulation. Many of these regulations are vaguely written and subject to differing interpretations that may, in certain cases, result in unintended consequences that could impact our ability to effectively deliver services. The ARRA legislation strengthening the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA is one such example. We believe that federal requirements governing the confidentiality of individually-identifiable health information permit us to obtain individually-identifiable health information for well-being improvement purposes from a covered entity; however, state legislation or regulation could preempt federal legislation if it is more restrictive. We are required by contract and ARRA to comply with certain aspects of these confidentiality and security regulations. 15 Although we continually monitor the extent to which federal and state legislation or regulations may govern our operations, new federal or state legislation or regulation in this area that restricts our ability to obtain and handle individually-identifiable health information or that otherwise restricts our operations would have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Government regulators may interpret current regulations or adopt new legislation governing our operations in a manner that subjects us to penalties or negatively impacts our ability to provide services. Broadly written Medicare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that are subject to varying interpretations may expose us to potential civil and criminal litigation regarding the structure of current and past contracts entered into with our customers, such as the civil lawsuit filed against us in 1994 as discussed under Item 3: “Legal Proceedings.” Expanding the well-being and health management industry to Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans could lead to increased direct regulation of well-being and health management services. Further, providing services to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries may result in our being subject directly to various federal laws and regulations, including provisions related to fraud and abuse, false claims and billing and reimbursement for services, and the federal False Claims Act. In addition, certain of our services, including health utilization management and certain claims payment functions, require licensure by government agencies. We are subject to a variety of legal requirements in order to obtain and maintain such licenses. Little guidance is available to determine the scope of some of these aforementioned requirements. Failure to obtain and maintain any required licenses or failure to comply with other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material negative impact on our operations. Healthcare reform may reduce our revenues and/or require us to revise our operations. National healthcare reform is a focus at the federal level. In the final months of 2009, both houses of the U.S. Congress passed separate bills intended to reform the healthcare system through, among other things, decreasing or eliminating the number of uninsured individuals, improving quality of care, and reducing healthcare costs. Both bills included reductions in payments that could have a material adverse impact on Medicare Advantage plans, from whom we derive a significant portion of our revenues. While neither of these bills has yet to become law, the uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform may cause our customers or prospective customers to reduce or delay the purchase of our services. We are unable to predict what provisions, if any, will be enacted, and it is unclear whether healthcare reform w ill adversely affect our operations, require us to revise our operations or reduce the demand for our services. Certain of our professional healthcare employees, such as nurses, must comply with individual licensing requirements. All of our healthcare professionals who are subject to licensing requirements, such as the professionals located at a call center, are licensed in the state in which they are physically present. Multiple state licensing requirements for healthcare professionals who provide services telephonically over state lines may require us to license some of our healthcare professionals in more than one state. We continually monitor legislative, regulatory and judicial developments in telemedicine; however, new agency interpretations, federal or state legislation or regulations, or judicial decisions could increase the requirement for multi-state licensing of all call center health professionals, which would increase our costs of services. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 