Item 1A. Risk Factors In the execution of our business strategy, our operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks. A summary of certain material risks is provided below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our company. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us and is intended only as a summary of certain material factors that could impact our operations in the industry in which we operate. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain additional information concerning these and other risks. We depend on payments from customers, and cost reduction pressure on these entities may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The healthcare industry in which we operate currently faces significant cost reduction pressures as a result of increased competition, constrained revenues from governmental and private revenue sources, increasing underlying medical care costs, and general economic conditions. We believe that these pressures will continue and possibly intensify. We believe that our solutions, which are geared to foster wellness and disease prevention and provide access to health improvement programs, specifically assist our customers in controlling the high costs of healthcare; however, the pressures to reduce costs in the short term may negatively affect our ability to sign and/or retain contracts under existing terms or to restructure these contracts on terms that would not have a material negative impact on our results of operations. These financial pressures could have a negative impact on our results of operations. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. A significant percentage of our revenues is derived from health plan customers. The health plan industry continues to undergo a period of consolidation, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain health plan customers if they are acquired by other health plans that already participate in competing programs or are not interested in our programs. In addition, a reduction in the number of covered lives enrolled with our health plan customers or a decision by our health plan customers to take programs in-house could adversely affect our results of operations. Our health plan customers are subject to increased obligations under PPACA, including new benefit mandates, limitations on exclusions and factors used for rate setting, requi rements on MLRs and increased taxes. In determining how to meet these requirements, health plan customers or prospective customers may seek reduced fees or choose to reduce or delay the purchase of our services. 12 We currently derive a large percentage of our revenues from one customer. Because of the size of its membership and the breadth of the services purchased from us, CIGNA HealthCare, Inc. comprised approximately 19% of our revenues in 2010. Our contract with CIGNA continues into 2013. The loss of, or the restructuring of a contract with, this or other large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in 2010. Our business strategy is dependent in part on developing new and additional products to complement our existing services, as well as establishing additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. Our strategy focuses on helping people to adopt or maintain healthy behaviors, reducing health-related risk factors, and optimizing care for identified health conditions. While we have considerable experience in solutions with a broad range of medical conditions, any new or modified programs will involve inherent risks of execution, such as our ability to implement our programs within expected timelines or cost estimates; our ability to obtain adequate financing to provide the capital that may be necessary to support our operations and to support or guarantee our performance under new contracts; and our ability to deliver ou tcomes on any new products or services. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we may enter into relationships, such as our strategic relationship with Medco Health Solutions, Inc., to establish additional distribution channels through which we may offer our products and services. As we offer products through new or alternative distribution channels, we may face difficulties, such as potential customer overlap that may lead to pricing conflicts, which may adversely affect our business. Failure to successfully execute on the terms of our contracts could result in significant harm to our business. Our ability to grow and expand our business is contingent upon our ability to achieve desired financial savings, clinical performance targets, and productivity improvements under our existing contracts and to favorably resolve contract billing and interpretation issues with our customers. Certain customer contracts provide that a portion of our fees may be refundable to the customer if our programs do not achieve targeted savings performance. There is no guarantee that we will achieve the necessary cost savings and clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts within the time frames contemplated and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to cost savings. Unusual and unforeseen patterns of healthcare utilization by individuals with diseases or conditions for which we provide services could adversely affect our ability to achieve desired financial savings an d clinical outcomes. Our inability to meet or exceed the targets under our customer contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Also, our ability to provide financial guidance with respect to performance-based contracts is contingent upon our ability to accurately forecast performance and the timing of revenue recognition under the terms of our contracts ahead of data collection and reconciliation. In addition, certain of our contracts are increasing in complexity, requiring integration of data, systems, people, programs and services, the execution of sophisticated business activities, and the delivery of a broad array of services to large numbers of people who may be geographically disbursed. The failure to successfully manage and execute the terms of these agreements could result in the loss of fees and/or contracts and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. 13 Identifying which members are eligible to receive our services and measuring our performance under our contracts are highly dependent upon the timely receipt of accurate data from our customers and our accurate analysis of such data. Data acquisition, data quality control and data analysis are complex processes that carry a risk of untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data from our customers or flawed analysis of such data, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to recognize revenues. Our ability to recognize estimated annualized revenue in backlog is based on certain estimates. Our ability to recognize estimated annualized revenue in backlog in the manner and within the timeframe we expect is based on certain estimates regarding the implementation of our services. We cannot assure you that the amounts in backlog will ultimately result in revenues in the manner and within the timeframe we expect. Changes in macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our business. Economic difficulties and other macroeconomic conditions have reduced the demand and/or the timing of purchases for certain of our services from customers and potential customers. A loss of a customer or a reduction in a customer’s enrolled lives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, current economic conditions could create liquidity and credit constraints. We cannot assure you that we would be able to secure additional financing if needed and, if such funds were available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. The expansion of our services into international markets subjects us to additional business, regulatory and financial risks. We intend to continue expanding our international operations as part of our business strategy. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in connection with pursuing business opportunities in international markets. Our success in the international markets will depend in part on our ability to anticipate the rate of market acceptance of our solutions and the individual market dynamics and regulatory requirements in potential international markets. Because the international market for our services is relatively immature and also involves many new solutions, there is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve the necessary cost savings and clinical outcomes improvements under our contracts with international customers within the time frames contemplated and reach mutual agreement with customers with respect to those outcomes. The failure to accurately forecast the costs necessary to implement our strategy of establishing a presence in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as a result of doing business in foreign markets, we are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks we face within the United States. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations. Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. 14 We may experience difficulties associated with the implementation and/or integration of new businesses or technologies. We may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in effectively implementing and/or integrating new businesses and technologies into our platform. Implementing internally-developed solutions and/or integrating newly acquired organizations and technologies could be costly and time-consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not be successful in implementing and/or integrating these new businesses or technologies and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future financial condition. On March 30, 2010, we entered into a Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Fourth Amended Credit Agreement”). The Fourth Amended Credit Agreement contains various financial covenants, restricts the payment of dividends, and limits the amount of repurchases of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $241.3 million. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by, among other things,: · increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or to increases in interest rates, particularly with respect to the portion of our outstanding debt that is subject to variable interest rates; · potentially limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; · causing us to dedicate a portion of future cash flow from operations to service or pay down our debt, which reduces the cash available for other purposes, such as operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; and · possibly limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets, the value of which could become impaired. We have recorded significant portions of the purchase price of certain acquisitions as goodwill and/or intangible assets. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $496.3 million and $94.3 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired. If we determine that the carrying values of our goodwill and/or intangible assets are impaired, we may incur a non-cash charge to earnings which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment occurs and/or could impact our compliance with the covenant requirements of the Fourth Amended Credit Agreement. A failure of our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our ability to deliver our services depends on effectively using information technology. We believe that our state-of-the-art integrated technology platform and call center technology provides us with a 15 competitive advantage in the industry; however, we expect to continually invest in updating and expanding our information technology. In some cases, we may have to make systems investments before we generate revenues from contracts with new customers. In addition, these system requirements expose us to technology obsolescence risks The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of a significant amount of health information about the participants of our programs. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect the health information of their members, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our services. We rely upon our information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business. These systems and our operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by our employees, security breaches, computer viruses, intentional attacks by third parties or other unexpected events. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems, regardless of the cause, could adversely impact our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues are subject to seasonal pressure from the disenrollment processes of employer customers of our contracted health plans. In addition, some of our contracts with employers, either direct or through their health plans, are one year in length, often beginning on January 1. Employers typically make decisions on which health insurance carriers they will offer to their employees and also may allow employees to switch between health plans on an annual basis. These annual membership disenrollment and re-enrollment processes of employers (whose employees are the health plan members) from health plans can result in a seasonal reduction in billed lives in January of each year. Another seasonal impact on billed lives could occur if a health plan decided to withdraw coverage altogether for a specific line of business, such as Medicare Advantage, or in a specific geographic area, thereby automatically disenrolling previously covered members. We face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. We compete with other healthcare and services providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business and call centers, including nurses and other healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare businesses. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. A failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other healthcare professionals, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on profitability. We are party to litigation that could force us to pay significant damages and/or harm our reputation. We are subject to certain legal proceedings, which potentially involve large claims and significant defense costs (see Item 3: “Legal Proceedings”). These legal proceedings and any other claims that we may face, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management. Although we currently maintain liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. Although we believe that we have conducted our operations in full compliance with applicable statutory and contractual requirements and that we have meritorious defenses to outstanding claims, it is possible that resolution of these legal matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results 16 of operations. In addition, legal expenses associated with the defense of these matters may be material to our consolidated results of operations in a particular financial reporting period. Compliance with new federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations or may require us to spend substantial amounts acquiring and implementing new information systems or modifying existing systems. Our customers are subject to considerable state and federal government regulation. Many of these regulations are vaguely written and subject to differing interpretations that may, in certain cases, result in unintended consequences that could impact our ability to effectively deliver services. The ARRA legislation strengthening the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA is one such example. We believe that federal requirements governing the confidentiality of individually-identifiable health information permit us to obtain individually-identifiable health information for well-being improvement purposes from a covered entity; however, state legislation or regulation could preempt federal confidentiality and security regulations if it is more restrictive. We are required by contract, the services we provide, and ARRA to comply with certain aspects of the federal confidentiality and security regulations. Although we continually monitor the extent to which federal and state legislation or regulations may govern our operations, new federal or state legislation or regulation in this area that restricts our ability to obtain and handle individually-identifiable health information or that otherwise restricts our operations could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Government regulators may interpret current regulations or adopt new legislation governing our operations in a manner that subjects us to penalties or negatively impacts our ability to provide services. Broadly written Medicare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that are subject to varying interpretations may expose us to potential civil and criminal litigation regarding the structure of current and past contracts entered into with our customers. Expanding the well-being and health management industry to Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans could lead to increased direct regulation of well-being and health management services. Further, providing services to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries may result in our being subject directly to various federal laws and regulations, including provisions related to fraud and abuse, false claims and billing and reimbursement for services, and the federal False Claims Act. In addition, certain of our services, including health utilization management and certain claims payment functions, require licensure by government agencies. We are subject to a variety of legal requirements in order to obtain and maintain such licenses, but little guidance is available to determine the scope of some of these requirements. Failure to obtain and maintain any required licenses or failure to comply with other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material negative impact on our operations. Certain of our professional healthcare employees, such as nurses, must comply with individual licensing requirements. All of our healthcare professionals who are subject to licensing requirements, such as the professionals located at a call center, are licensed in the state in which they are physically present. Multiple state licensing requirements for healthcare professionals who provide services telephonically over state lines may require us to license some of our healthcare professionals in more than one state. We continually monitor legislative, regulatory and judicial developments in telemedicine; however, new agency interpretations, federal or state 17 legislation or regulations, or judicial decisions could increase the requirement for multi-state licensing of all call center health professionals, which would increase our costs of services. Healthcare reform legislation may result in a reduction to our revenues from government health plans and private insurance companies. In March 2010, President Obama signed PPACA into law. Among other things, PPACA seeks to decrease the number of uninsured individuals and expand coverage through the expansion of public programs and private sector health insurance and a number of health insurance market reforms. PPACA also contains several provisions that encourage the utilization of preventive services and wellness programs, such as those provided by the Company. However, PPACA also contains various provisions that directly affect the customers or prospective customers that contract for our services and may increase their costs and/or reduce their revenues. For example, as enacted, PPACA prohibits commercial health plans from using gender, health status, family history, or occupation to set premium rates, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusi ons, and bans annual benefit limits. In addition, PPACA mandates minimum MLRs for health plans such that the percentage of health coverage premium revenue spent on healthcare medical costs and quality improvement expenses must be at least 80% for individual and small group health coverage and 85% for large group coverage and Medicare Advantage plans, with policyholders receiving rebates if the actual loss ratios fall below these minimums. While we anticipate that a substantial majority of our services will qualify as medical expenses in MLR calculations, we cannot guarantee that the final regulations implementing the MLR mandate will define our services as medical expenses. Increased obligations of health plans under PPACA as well as PPACA’s complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, pending court challenges, and possible amendment or repeal may cause our customers or prospective customers to reduce or delay the purchase of our services or to demand reduced fees. PPACA also reduces funding to Medicare Advantage programs, which may cause some Medicare Advantage plans to raise premiums or limit benefits, potentially reducing demand for our programs, either through Medicare Advantage plans eliminating our programs or causing some Medicare beneficiaries to terminate their Medicare Advantage coverage. While we believe that our programs and services specifically assist our customers in controlling their costs a nd improving their competitiveness, it is possible that some provisions of PPACA will adversely affect the profitability of our customers in such a manner that the demand for our programs and services would be reduced. Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict all of the ways in which PPACA could impact the Company. These changes, other reforms imposed by PPACA, future legislative initiatives, and/or government regulation could adversely affect our operations or reduce the demand for our services. 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 