ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and investors may lose all or part of their investment. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The current severe slowing in the general economy and in the semiconductor industry have caused us recent losses and reductions in available cash, and may continue to negatively impact our financial performance. The current recession in the global economy and the current downturn in the semiconductor industry have severely impacted and could further impact customer demand for our products and our financial performance. The degree of this impact will depend on a number of factors, including whether the U.S. economy and the global economy continue a prolonged recession. Demand for semiconductor equipment depends on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty may lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult economic environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we may be required to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. In that event, financing may not be available or we could be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity or convertible debt financing, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. We may also experience supplier or customer issues as a result of current adverse macroeconomic conditions. If our customers have difficulties in obtaining capital or financing, this could result in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues could also result in an increase in bad debt expense. These conditions could also affect our key suppliers, which could affect their ability to supply parts and result in delays of our customer shipments. These conditions make it difficult for us to accurately predict our business. Because of the negative effects of the current recession, we may have to take further actions to reduce costs, which could reduce our ability to significantly invest in research and development at levels we believe are necessary. If we are unable to effectively align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, we will experience additional losses and additional reductions in our cash and equivalents. Our largest customers account for a substantial portion of our revenue, and our revenue would materially decline if one or more of these customers were to purchase significantly fewer of our systems. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and each year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. There are only a limited number of large companies 10 Table of Contents operating in the semiconductor industry. Accordingly, we expect that we will continue to depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If our current relationships with our large customers are impaired, or if we are unable to develop similar collaborative relationships with important customers in the future, our revenues could significantly decline. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, and increased competition could impair sales of our products. We operate in the highly competitive semiconductor industry and face competition from a number of companies, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which could impair sales of our products. Moreover, there has been merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors. These transactions by our competitors and potential competitors may provide them with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to rapidly expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Many of our customers and potential customers in the semiconductor industry are large companies that require global support and service for their metrology systems. Some of our larger or more geographically diverse competitors might be better equipped to provide this global support. We depend on OEM suppliers for sales of our integrated metrology systems, and the loss of our OEM suppliers as customers could harm our business. We believe that sales of integrated metrology systems will continue to be an important source of our revenues. Sales of our integrated metrology systems depend upon the ability of OEMs to sell semiconductor manufacturing equipment products that include our metrology systems as components. If our OEM customers are unable to sell such products, or if they choose to focus their attention on products that do not integrate our systems, our business could suffer. If we were to lose our OEM customers for any reason, our ability to realize sales from integrated metrology systems would be diminished, which would harm our business. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and significant loss of revenue. We rely on outside vendors to manufacture many components and subassemblies. Certain components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our systems are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We do not maintain any long-term supply agreements with any of our suppliers. We have entered into arrangements with J.A. Woolam Co., Inc. for the purchase of the spectroscopic ellipsometer component incorporated into our advanced measurement systems. We also have supply agreements with MPA and Spectral Systems, and subcontract manufacturing agreements with Fox Semiconductor, IFAT and Toho Technologies. In June 2009, we signed a supply agreement with Zygo Corporation to supply OEM interferometer sensors for incorporation into the Unifire™ line of products as well as Nanometrics’ family of automated metrology systems. Our reliance on a sole or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including the following: • we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components; • we have reduced control over pricing and the timely delivery of components and subassemblies; and • our suppliers may be unable to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new systems. Some of our suppliers have relatively limited financial and other resources. Because the manufacturing of certain of these components and subassemblies involves extremely complex processes and requires long lead times, we may experience delays or shortages caused by our suppliers. If we were forced to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components or subassemblies internally, we could be forced to redesign our systems, which could increase our cost structure, cause production delays and prevent us from shipping our systems to customers on a timely basis. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries from our suppliers, or any other circumstance that would restrict our ability to ship our products, could damage relationships with current and prospective customers, harm our business and result in significant loss of revenue. 11 Table of Contents Our success depends on the performance of our senior management and on our ability to identify, hire and retain key management personnel. Our Chief Executive Officer joined the Company in August 2007 and in September 2008, our former Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Administration, who joined us in November 2007, was replaced, on an interim basis, by Bruce Crawford, our Chief Operating Officer. Our former Chief Accounting Officer also resigned in December 2008. James P. Moniz was appointed as Chief Financial Officer (and our principal accounting officer) on February 18, 2009. Although we have employment agreements with certain key members of our senior management team, including Messrs. Stultz, Crawford and Moniz, these individuals or other key employees may still leave us. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our executives. In addition, to support our future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified senior management personnel, our business could be harmed and our ability to implement our strategy could be compromised. Restructuring of our operations may disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Since 2007, we have taken steps, including reductions in force, facility closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. We may take similar steps in the future to improve efficiency and match our resources with market opportunities, and as a result of such actions, we may incur restructuring expenses. In the first and third quarters of 2008, we undertook a restructuring that involved a reduction of our global workforce by approximately 30 and 34 employees, respectively, which action caused us to record restructuring and reorganization charges of $0.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively. In the first and second quarters of 2009, we reduced the global workforce further by 51 and 25 employees, respectively, and recorded restructuring charges of $0.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Several factors could cause a restructuring to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations, the development of our technology, our supply chain and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Loss of sales, service and engineering talent, in particular, could damage our business. Any restructuring would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. If we undertake further employee reductions or other restructuring activities, we will likely record restructuring and related expenses and accounting charges. Accounting charges may include inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, and if we are required to take a substantial charge related to any future restructuring activities, our results of operations would be adversely affected in the period in which we take such a charge. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material effect on our business. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to include an internal control report from management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The internal control report must include the following: (1) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (2) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and (3) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. A statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s internal control over financial reporting was not required for 2009 as we are not an accelerated filer. The Company will be required to obtain such an attestation report for the 2010 fiscal year. 12 Table of Contents If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility will be harmed, revenue from, and market acceptance of, our systems will decrease and we could expend significant capital and resources as a result of such defects. Notwithstanding our internal quality specifications, our systems have sometimes contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced. If we deliver systems with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems would be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to product liability lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability arising from defects in our systems. In the event of a successful product liability claim, we could be obligated to pay damages significantly in excess of our product liability insurance limits. If we experience significant delays in shipping our products to our customers, our business and reputation may suffer. Our products are complex and require technical expertise to design and manufacture properly. Various problems occasionally arise during the manufacturing process that may cause delays and/or impair product quality. Any significant delays stemming from the failure of our products to meet or exceed our internal quality specifications, or for any other reasons, would delay our shipments. Shipment delays could harm our business and reputation in the industry. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important intellectual property rights by us. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. From time to time we may receive communications from third parties asserting that our metrology systems may contain design features which are claimed to infringe on their proprietary rights. For example, in August 2005, we were served with a complaint by KLA-Tencor, or KLA, alleging that certain of our products infringe two of KLA’s patents, Patent No. 6,483,580 and Patent No. 6,590,656. In January 2006, KLA added Patent No. 6,611,330 to its claim. For additional information, refer to Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Our new or current products may infringe valid intellectual property rights, but even if our products do not infringe, we may be required to expend significant sums of money to defend against infringement claims, or to actively protect our intellectual property rights through litigation. Our intellectual property may be infringed by third parties despite our efforts to protect it, which could threaten our future success and competitive position and harm our operating results. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology for our principal product families, and we rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, it will be easier for our competitors to sell competing products. We own or may license patents relating to our metrology systems, and have filed applications for additional patents. Any of our pending patent applications may be rejected, and we may not in the future be able to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable. In addition, the patents we own, have been issued or licensed, may not provide us with competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Third parties may also design around these patents. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and technology. We routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees. However, in the event that these agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies. Our confidential and proprietary information and technology might also be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. We may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued to or licensed by us, or to determine the scope or validity of a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to re-engineer our product or obtain expensive licenses from third parties, any of which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, 70.3%, 70.5% and 68.2%, respectively, of our total net revenues were derived from sales to customers in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia, such as Japan, South Korea, China and Taiwan. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products and our business would suffer. 13 Table of Contents Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our revenues to fluctuate widely from period to period. Our customers generally take long periods of time to evaluate our metrology systems. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our systems. The length of time that it takes for us to complete a sale depends upon many factors, including: • the efforts of our sales force and our independent sales representatives; • the complexity of the customer’s metrology needs; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; • the customer’s budgetary constraints; and • the quality and sophistication of the customer’s current processing equipment. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales process, the period between our initial contact with a customer and the time at which we recognize revenue from that customer, if at all, varies widely. Our sales cycles, including the time it takes for us to build a product to customer specifications after receiving an order, typically range from three to nine months. Occasionally our sales cycles can be much longer, particularly with customers in Asia who may require longer evaluation periods. During the sales cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite our sales efforts. If we do complete a sale, customers often purchase only one of our systems and then evaluate its performance for a lengthy period of time before purchasing additional systems. The purchases are generally made through purchase orders rather than through long-term contracts. The number of additional products that a customer purchases, if any, depends on many factors, including a customer’s capacity requirements. The period between a customer’s initial purchase and any subsequent purchases is unpredictable and can vary from three months to a year or longer. Variations in the length of this period could cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Relatively small fluctuations in our system sales volume may cause our operating results to vary significantly each quarter. During any quarter, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. Our automated metrology systems range in price from approximately $200,000 to over $1,300,000 per system, and our integrated metrology systems range in price from approximately $80,000 to $500,000 per system. Accordingly, a small change in the number or mix of systems that we sell could cause significant changes in our operating results. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter, and therefore our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter and shipments from backlog. Our backlog at the beginning of each quarter does not include all systems sales needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Consequently, we are dependent on obtaining orders for systems to be shipped in the same quarter that the order is received. Moreover, customers may reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future product shipments, and our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Because of the high cost of switching equipment vendors in our markets, it may be difficult for us to attract customers from our competitors even if our metrology systems are superior to theirs. We believe that once a semiconductor customer has selected one vendor’s metrology system, the customer generally relies upon that system and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of the same vendor’s system, for the life of the application. Once a vendor’s metrology system has been installed, a customer must often make substantial technical modifications and may experience downtime in order to switch to another vendor’s metrology system. Accordingly, unless our systems offer performance or cost advantages that outweigh a customer’s expense of switching to our systems, it will be difficult for us to achieve significant sales from that customer once it has selected another vendor’s system for an application. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to develop new and enhanced metrology systems we will likely lose market share to our competitors. We operate in an industry that is subject to technological changes, changes in customer demands and the introduction of new, higher performance systems with short product life cycles. To be competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce in a timely manner new metrology systems that meet the performance and price demands of semiconductor manufacturers and suppliers. We must also continue to refine our current systems so that they remain competitive. We may experience difficulties or delays in our development efforts with respect to new systems, and we may not ultimately be successful in developing them. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first-to-market advantage or allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. Lack of market acceptance for our new products may affect our ability to generate revenue and may harm our business. In 2008, we introduced several products to the market including the NanoCD Suite, Impulse and the Lynx platform. In 2009, we introduced the Atlas XP+ system as the follow-on to our Atlas metrology system and our Caliper Mosaic Overlay system. We have invested substantial time and resources into the development of these products. However, we cannot accurately predict the future level of acceptance of our new products by our customers. As a result, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenue from sales of these products. While we anticipate that our new products will become an increasingly larger component of our business, their failure to gain acceptance with our customers could materially harm our business. Additionally, if our new products do gain market acceptance, our ability to sell our existing products may be impeded and our business would suffer. We depend on new products and processes for our success. Consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change. Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling such processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. If new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. We might not be able to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. Our failure to complete commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. In order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in R&D and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. We must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect our sale of existing products. Moreover, future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. We are subject to risks associated with our competitors’ strategic relationships and their introduction of new products and we may lack the financial resources or technological capabilities of certain of our competitors needed to capture increased market share. We expect to face significant competition from multiple current and future competitors. We believe that other companies are developing systems and products that are competitive to our products and are planning to introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. We face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. We believe that to remain competitive we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process R&D. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. These competitors may deeply discount products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. As a result, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. 15 Table of Contents In addition, our competitors may provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over systems we currently expect to offer. They may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those that we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. In particular, while we currently are developing additional product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. Accordingly, we may be unable to continue to compete in our markets and competition may intensify, or future competition, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows could suffer. If we are unable to adjust the scale of our business in response to rapid changes in demand in the semiconductor equipment industry, our operating results and our ability to compete successfully may be impaired. The business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and resources allocated to operating activities. During periods of growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems and procedures and in training, managing, and appropriately sizing our supply chain, our work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired during periods of demand decline, and we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during periods of demand growth. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. To achieve this, from time to time we have acquired complementary businesses, products, or technologies instead of developing them ourselves and may choose to do so in the future. On June 17, 2009, we entered into a strategic partnership with Zygo under an exclusive OEM supply agreement to provide interferometer sensors to Nanometrics for incorporation into the Unifire™ line of products as well as Nanometrics’ family of automated metrology systems. In May 2008, we acquired Tevet Process Control Technologies, Ltd., an integrated metrology company serving the worldwide semiconductor and solar manufacturing industry. We do not know if we will be able to complete any additional acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, operate them profitably or retain their key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology that we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. In addition, in order to finance any acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. In that event, we could be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity or convertible debt financing, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. If we are unable to integrate any acquired entities, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. We manufacture all of our systems at a limited number of facilities, and any prolonged disruption in the operations of those facilities could reduce our revenues. We produce all of our systems in our manufacturing facilities located in Milpitas, California. We use contract manufacturers in China, Israel, Japan and the United States. In addition, we perform limited subassembly for certain products at our York, England facility. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and require sophisticated, costly equipment and specially designed facilities. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities, such as those resulting from acts of war, terrorism, political instability, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disaster could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations, see “Significant Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 8, Note 1. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could 16 Table of Contents significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, our operating results have been affected by the calculation of share-based compensation expense and by the testing and potential impairment of long-lived assets such as goodwill and other intangible assets. The process of evaluating potential impairments is highly subjective and requires significant judgment, and our results of operations could vary in the future if the forecasts used in subjective assessments are inaccurate. Our operating results have varied in the past and probably will continue to vary significantly in the future, which will cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary in the future, which volatility could cause our stock price to decline. Some of the factors that may influence our operating results and subject our stock to extreme price and volume fluctuations include: • changes in customer demand for our systems; • economic conditions in the semiconductor industries; • the timing, cancellation or delay of customer orders and shipments; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to recover the higher costs associated with meeting our customers’ increasing service demands; • competitive pressures on product prices and changes in pricing by our customers or suppliers; • the timing of new product announcements and product releases by us or our competitors and our ability to design, introduce and manufacture new products on a timely and cost-effective basis; • the occurrence of potential impairments of long-lived assets; • the timing of acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; • the levels of our fixed expenses, relative to our revenue levels; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Japanese yen and the British pound sterling. If our operating results in any period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We incur significant costs as a result of complying with laws and regulations affecting public companies. Compliance with laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has resulted in and, we expect, will continue to result in substantial accounting, legal and administrative costs. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board impose requirements with respect to the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls. The cost of complying with these requirements is substantial. We are highly dependent on international sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. We maintain facilities in Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, South Korea, China, Israel and the European Union. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. International sales and operations carry inherent risks such as: • regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments; • obstacles to the protection of our intellectual property, political, military and terrorism risks; • disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or other government agencies; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. 17 Table of Contents If any of these risks materialize and we are unable to manage them, our international sales and operations would suffer. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. With our operations in Japan, South Korea, the United Kingdom, Taiwan, China and Israel, a significant percentage of our cash flows are exposed to foreign currency risk. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, 70.3%, 70.5% and 68.2%, respectively, of our total net revenues were derived from sales to customers in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia, such as Japan and South Korea. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flow. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, labeling, and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. We could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses. We may unintentionally violate environmental laws or regulations in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by limiting our ability to engage in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which it will be more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in a relatively short period of time; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. We may experience periodic or prolonged disruption of our IT infrastructure, which may adversely affect our operations. We rely on our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system (SYSPRO) to manage our business and accurately and timely report key data with respect to our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may experience periodic or prolonged disruption of our IT infrastructure arising out of general use of such systems, periodic upgrades and updates, or external factors that are outside of our control. Any such disruption could adversely affect our ability to complete essential business processes, including our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our ERP system or other IT systems, our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 