ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and investors may lose all or part of their investment. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business Customer demand for our products is inelastic and has led to fluctuations in revenue from period to period and is expected to continue to do so. Our operating results have varied significantly from period to period due to the inelastic nature of our products. The majority of our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor device and equipment manufacturers. These manufacturers’ capital expenditures, in turn, depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products using semiconductors. The semiconductor industry has historically experienced periodic downturns. These downturns have often resulted in substantial decreases in the demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, including metrology systems. We have found that the resulting decrease in capital expenditures has typically been more pronounced than the downturn in semiconductor device industry revenues. We expect the inelastic nature of demand for our products, and therefore, our business, to continue in the foreseeable future. We depend on OEM suppliers for sales of our integrated metrology systems, and the loss of our OEM suppliers as a customer could harm our business. We believe that sales of integrated metrology systems will continue to be an important source of our revenues. Sales of our integrated metrology systems depend upon the ability of OEMs to sell semiconductor equipment products that include our metrology systems as components. If our OEMs are unable to sell such products, or if they choose to focus their attention on products that do not integrate our systems, our business could suffer. If we were to lose our OEMs as a customer for any reason, our ability to realize sales from integrated metrology systems would be significantly diminished, which would harm our business. Efforts to restructure our operations and align our resources with market opportunities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. Since 2007, we have taken steps, including reductions in force, facility closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. We may take similar steps in the future to improve efficiency and match our resources with market opportunities. Any such changes could be disruptive to our business and may result in the recording of accounting charges. These include inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to 19 Table of Contents consolidation of excess facilities. If we are required to take a substantial charge related to any future restructuring activities, our results of operations would be adversely affected in the period in which we take such a charge. If any of our systems fail to meet or exceed our internal quality specifications, we do not ship them until such time as they have met such specifications. If we experience significant delays or are unable to ship our products to our customers as a result of our internal processes, or for any other reason, our business and reputation may suffer. Our products are complex and require technical expertise to design and manufacture properly. Various problems occasionally arise during the manufacturing process that may cause delays and/or impair product quality. We must actively monitor our manufacturing processes to ensure that our products meet our internal quality specifications. Any significant delays stemming from the failure of our products to meet or exceed our internal quality specifications, or for any other reasons, would delay our shipments. Shipment delays could harm our business and reputation in the industry. If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility will be harmed, revenue from, and market acceptance of, our systems will decrease and we could expend significant capital and resources as a result of such defects. Notwithstanding our internal quality specifications, our systems have sometimes contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced. If we deliver systems with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems would be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to product liability as a result of product liability lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability arising from defects in our systems. In the event of a successful product liability claim, we could be obligated to pay damages significantly in excess of our product liability insurance limits. Our largest customers account for a substantial portion of our revenue, and our revenue would materially decline if one or more of these customers were to purchase significantly fewer of our systems or if they delayed or cancelled a large order. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and each year has been derived from sales to a relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. There are only a limited number of large companies operating in the semiconductor industry. Accordingly, we expect that we will continue to depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If any of our key customers were to purchase significantly fewer systems, or if a large order were delayed or cancelled, our revenues could significantly decline. The success of our product development efforts depends on our ability to anticipate market trends and the price, performance and functionality requirements of semiconductor device manufacturers. In order to anticipate these trends and ensure that critical development projects proceed in a coordinated manner, we must continue to collaborate closely with our customers. Our relationships with our customers provide us with access to valuable information regarding industry trends, which enables us to better plan our product development activities. If our current relationships with our large customers are impaired, or if we are unable to develop similar collaborative relationships with important customers in the future, our long-term ability to produce commercially successful systems could be adversely affected. We have had significant management changes since the end of the last fiscal year and these changes may impact our ability to execute our business strategy in the near term. In general, our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of our senior management and on our ability to identify, hire and retain key management personnel. In August 2007, our Chief Executive Officer joined the Company. In November 2007, our Chief Financial Officer joined the Company. While we are confident in the officers’ abilities to manage the Company, our 20 Table of Contents business may be affected. Furthermore, we must be able to identify, hire and retain key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with certain key members of our senior management team, including Messrs. Stultz, Schaefer and Crawford, these individuals or other key employees may still leave us. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our executives. In addition, to support our future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified senior management personnel, our business could be harmed and our ability to implement our strategy could be compromised. Failure To Achieve And Maintain Effective Internal Controls In Accordance With Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Have A Material Effect On Our Business. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to include an internal control report from management in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The internal control report must include the following: (1) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (2) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (3) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective, and (4) a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our assessment as of December 29, 2007 identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, which also adversely impacted our disclosure controls and procedures. A material weakness results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Since discovery of the material weakness, we have performed extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, however, there is a risk of errors not being prevented or detected. For additional information refer to Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report. Because of the material weakness referenced in the preceding paragraph, management has concluded that, as of December 29, 2007, our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective based on those criteria. This failure and any failure in the future to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business. Such noncompliance could result in perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others being adversely affected. We may not be able to complete our remediation plans designed to address the identified material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and continue to attract additional qualified accountants, and auditing and compliance professionals to assist in completing such plans and maintaining compliance programs. Our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, and increased competition could impair sales of our products. We operate in the highly competitive semiconductor industry and face competition from a number of companies, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which could impair sales of our products. Moreover, there has been merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors. These transactions by our competitors and potential competitors may provide them with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to rapidly expand their 21 Table of Contents product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Many of our customers and potential customers in the semiconductor industry are large companies that require global support and service for their metrology systems. Some of our larger or more geographically diverse competitors might be better equipped to provide this global support. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important intellectual property rights by us. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. From time to time we may receive communications from third parties asserting that our metrology systems may contain design features which are claimed to infringe on their proprietary rights. For example, in August 2005, we were served with a complaint by KLA alleging that certain of our products infringe two of KLA’s patents, Patent No. 6,483,580 and Patent No. 6,590,656. In January 2006, KLA added Patent No. 6,611,330 to its claim. For additional information, refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurance that Nanometrics’ new or current products do not infringe any valid intellectual property rights. Even if our products do not infringe, we may be required to expend significant sums of money to defend against infringement claims, as in the KLA lawsuit described above, or to actively protect our intellectual property rights through litigation. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and significant loss of revenue. We rely on outside vendors to manufacture many components and subassemblies. Certain components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our systems are obtained from a sole supplier or limited group of suppliers. We do not maintain any long-term supply agreements with any of our suppliers. We have entered into arrangements with J.A.Woollam Company for the purchase of the spectroscopic ellipsometer component incorporated in our advanced measurement systems. Our reliance on a sole or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including the following: • we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components; • we have reduced control over pricing and the timely delivery of components and subassemblies; and • our suppliers may be unable to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new systems. Some of our suppliers have relatively limited financial and other resources. Because the manufacturing of certain of these components and subassemblies involves extremely complex processes and requires long lead times, we may experience delays or shortages caused by our suppliers. If we were forced to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components or subassemblies internally, we could be forced to redesign our systems, which could cause production delays and prevent us from shipping our systems to customers on a timely basis. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries from our suppliers, or any other circumstance that would restrict our ability to ship our products, could damage relationships with current and prospective customers, harm our business and result in significant loss of revenue. Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our revenues to fluctuate widely from period to period. Our customers generally take long periods of time to evaluate our metrology systems. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and 22 Table of Contents benefits of our systems. The length of time that it takes for us to complete a sale depends upon many factors, including: • the efforts of our sales force and our independent sales representatives; • the complexity of the customer’s metrology needs; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; • the customer’s budgetary constraints; and • the quality and sophistication of the customer’s current processing equipment. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales process, the period between our initial contact with a customer and the time at which we recognize revenue from that customer, if at all, varies widely. Our sales cycles, including the time it takes for us to build a product to customer specifications after receiving an order, typically range from three to nine months. Occasionally our sales cycles can be much longer, particularly with customers in Asia who may require longer evaluation periods. During the sales cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite our sales efforts. If we do complete a sale, customers often purchase only one of our systems and then evaluate its performance for a lengthy period of time before purchasing additional systems. The purchases are generally made through purchase orders rather than through long-term contracts. The number of additional products that a customer purchases, if any, depends on many factors, including a customer’s capacity requirements. The period between a customer’s initial purchase and any subsequent purchases is unpredictable and can vary from three months to a year or longer. Variations in the length of this period could cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Relatively small fluctuations in our system sales volume may cause our operating results to vary significantly each quarter. During any quarter, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. Our automated metrology systems range in price from approximately $200,000 to over $1,000,000 per system, our integrated metrology systems range in price from approximately $80,000 to $400,000 per system. Accordingly, a small change in the number or mix of systems that we sell could cause significant changes in our operating results. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter, and therefore our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter and shipments from backlog. Our backlog at the beginning of each quarter does not include all systems sales needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Consequently, we are dependent on obtaining orders for systems to be shipped in the same quarter that the order is received. Moreover, customers may reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future product shipments, and our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Because of the high cost of switching equipment vendors in our markets, it may be difficult for us to attract customers from our competitors even if our metrology systems are superior to theirs. We believe that once a semiconductor customer has selected one vendor’s metrology system, the customer generally relies upon that system and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of the same vendor’s system, for the life of the application. Once a vendor’s metrology system has been installed, a customer must 23 Table of Contents often make substantial technical modifications and may experience downtime in order to switch to another vendor’s metrology system. Accordingly, unless our systems offer performance or cost advantages that outweigh a customer’s expense of switching to our systems, it will be difficult for us to achieve significant sales from that customer once it has selected another vendor’s system for an application. If we fail to develop new and enhanced metrology systems we will likely lose market share to our competitors. We operate in an industry that is subject to technological changes, changes in customer demands and the introduction of new, higher performance systems with short product life cycles. To be competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce in a timely manner new metrology systems that meet the performance and price demands of semiconductor manufacturers and suppliers. We must also continue to refine our current systems so that they remain competitive. We may experience difficulties or delays in our development efforts with respect to new systems, and we may not ultimately be successful in developing them. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first-to-market advantage or cause a competitor to achieve greater market share. Lack of market acceptance for our new products may affect our ability to generate revenue and may harm our business. We have recently introduced several products to the market including the Nano CD suite, Nano Station, IVS 185, VerteX Rapid Photoluminescence Mapping System for Compound Semiconductors, Atlas-M and Orion. We have invested substantial time and resources into the development of these products. However, we cannot accurately predict the future level of acceptance of our new products by our customers. As a result, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenue from sales of these products. While we anticipate that our new products will become an increasingly larger component of our business, their failure to gain acceptance with our customers could materially harm our business. Additionally, if our new products do gain market acceptance, our ability to sell our existing products may be impeded. As a result, there can be no assurance that the introduction of these products will be commercially successful or that these products will result in significant additional revenues or improved operating margins in future periods. Our intellectual property may be infringed upon by third parties despite our efforts to protect it, which could threaten our future success and competitive position and harm our operating results. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology for our principal product families, and we rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, it will be easier for our competitors to sell competing products. We own or may license patents relating to our metrology systems, and have filed applications for additional patents. Any of our pending patent applications may be rejected, and we may not in the future be able to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable. In addition, the patents we own, have been issued, or may license may not provide us with competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Third parties may also design around these patents. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and technology. We routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees. However, in the event that these agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies. Our confidential and proprietary information and technology might also be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. We may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued to or licensed by us, or to determine the scope or validity of a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to re-engineer our product or obtain expensive licenses from third parties, any of which would adversely affect our business and operating results. In March 2006, we filed a complaint against Nova for infringing our Patent Nos. Re 34,783. In October 2006, we filed a new complaint against Nova for infringement 24 Table of Contents of Patent No. 5,867,276 and 7,115,858. In April 2007, we and Nova agreed to dismiss, without prejudice, all pending patent litigation and have entered into a covenant not to sue one another for any patent for a period of one year. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. To achieve this, from time to time we have acquired complementary businesses, products, or technologies instead of developing them ourselves and may choose to do so in the future. For example, in July 2006, we consummated our merger with Accent Optical, a leading supplier of process control and metrology systems to the global semiconductor manufacturing industry. At the outset, we do not know if we will be able to complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, operate them profitably or retain their key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology that we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. In addition, in order to finance any acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. In that event, we could be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of an equity or convertible debt financing which may result in dilution to our stockholders. If we are unable to integrate any acquired entities, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. We manufacture all of our systems at a limited number of facilities, and any prolonged disruption in the operations of those facilities could reduce our revenues. We produce all of our systems in our manufacturing facilities located in Milpitas, California and to a lesser extent, we also manufacture through our subsidiary in South Korea and contract manufacturers in Japan and China. In addition, we perform limited subassembly for certain products at our York England facility. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and require sophisticated, costly equipment and specially designed facilities. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities, such as those resulting from a severe fire or earthquake, could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, 68.2%, 65.0% and 66.8%, respectively, of our total net revenues were derived from sales to customers in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia, such as Japan, South Korea, China and Taiwan. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations, see “Significant Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 8, Note I of this Form 10-K. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of share-based compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) requires us to use valuation methodologies (which were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options) and a number of 25 Table of Contents assumptions, estimates and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock and the exercise behavior of our employees. Furthermore, there are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our expense if and when we learn of additional information that may affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. Factors may arise over time that leads us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted share-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin percentage; research and development expenses; marketing, general and administrative expenses; and our tax rate. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and probably will continue to vary significantly in the future, which will cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary in the future, which volatility could cause our stock price to decline. Some of the factors that may influence our operating results and subject our stock to extreme price and volume fluctuations include: • changes in customer demand for our systems; • economic conditions in the semiconductor industries; • the timing, cancellation or delay of customer orders and shipments; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to recover the higher costs associated with meeting our customers’ increasing service demands; • competitive pressures on product prices and changes in pricing by our customers or suppliers; • the timing of new product announcements and product releases by us or our competitors and our ability to design, introduce and manufacture new products on a timely and cost-effective basis; • the timing of acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; • the levels of our fixed expenses, including research and development costs associated with product development, relative to our revenue levels; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Japanese yen and the Great British Pound. If our operating results in any period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We incur increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations affecting public companies. Compliance with changes in laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has resulted in and, we expect, will continue to result in substantial accounting, legal and administrative costs. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board impose requirements with respect to the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls. The cost of complying with these requirements is substantial. We are highly dependent on international sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. We maintain facilities in Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, South Korea, China and the European Union. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. International sales and operations carry inherent risks such as: regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments, 26 Table of Contents obstacles to the protection of our intellectual property, political, military and terrorism risks, disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or other government agencies, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, and potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. If any of these risks materialize and we are unable to manage them, our international sales and operations would suffer. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. With our operations in Japan, South Korea, United Kingdom, Taiwan, the European Union and China, a significant percentage of our cash flows are exposed to foreign currency risk. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flow. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, labeling, and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. We could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. In September 2006, we changed our state of incorporation from California to Delaware. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. Significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets after the completion of the acquisitions of Accent and Soluris transactions could make our reported results more volatile. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. The evaluation is prepared based on our current and projected performance for the identified reporting units. The 27 Table of Contents fair value of our reporting units is determined using a combination of the cash flow and market comparable approaches. If we conclude at any time that the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets for any of our reporting units exceeds its implied fair value, we will be required to recognize an impairment, which could materially reduce operating income and net income in the period in which such impairment is recognized. In the application of these methodologies, we were required to make estimates of future operating trends and judgments on discount rates and other variables. Actual future results and other assumed variables could differ from these estimates, including changes in the economy, the business environment in which we operate, and/or our own relative performance. Any differences in actual results compared to our estimates could result in further future impairments. Accordingly, our future earnings may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a period-to-period basis. Any future acquisitions we make, or attempt to make, could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition if we are not able to timely and successfully close the acquisition or successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of business and technologies to enhance our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations and key employees, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management’s attention from our core business, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. The integration of businesses that we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future into our business has been and will continue to be a complex, time consuming and expensive process. Failure to operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices could adversely impact the success of any business combination. Continuing economic and political instability could affect our business and results of operations. The ongoing threat of terrorism targeted at the United States or other regions where we conduct business increases the uncertainty in our markets and the economy in general. This uncertainty is likely to result in economic stagnation, which would harm our business. In addition, increased international political instability may hinder our ability to do business by increasing our costs of operations. For example, our transportation costs, insurance costs and sales efforts may become more expensive as a result of geopolitical tension. These tensions may also negatively affect our suppliers and customers. If this international economic and political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We received comments from the Staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Staff”) in a letter dated November 15, 2007 with respect to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2006. We responded to these comments on December 7, 2007. In a letter dated January 10, 2008, the Staff sent us additional comments, in the area of our revenue recognition policies and disclosures. We responded to these comments in a letter dated January 25, 2008. In a letter dated February 12, 2008, we received additional comments from the Staff requesting further clarification of our revenue recognition policies and disclosures. We will respond to these comments on March 17, 2008. We have considered the Securities and Exchange Commission comments in the preparation of this annual report on Form 10-K. We continue to discuss these comments with the Securities and Exchange Commission and it is possible that further comments could arise as a result of these discussions. 28 Table of Contents 