ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Peregrine, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our potential product sales, potential royalties, contract manufacturing revenues, expenses, net income(loss) and earnings(loss) per common share. If We Cannot Obtain Additional Funding, Our Product Development And Commercialization Efforts May Be Reduced Or Discontinued And We May Not Be Able To Continue Operations. At April 30, 2011, we had $23,075,000 in cash and cash equivalents. We have expended substantial funds on the research, development and clinical trials of our product candidates, and funding the operations of Avid. As a result, we have historically experienced negative cash flows from operations since our inception and we expect the negative cash flows from operations to continue for the foreseeable future. Our net losses incurred during the past three fiscal years ended April 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 amounted to $34,151,000, $14,494,000, and $16,524,000, respectively. Unless and until we are able to generate sufficient revenues from Avid’s contract manufacturing services and/or from the sale and/or licensing of our products under development, we expect such losses to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our ability to continue our clinical trials and development efforts is highly dependent on the amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand combined with our ability to raise additional capital to support our future operations through one or more methods, including but not limited to, issuing additional equity or debt. With respect to financing our operations through the issuance of equity, during fiscal year 2011, we raised $33,856,000 in gross proceeds (as described in Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Subsequent to April 30, 2011 and through June 30, 2011 we raised $2,140,000 in gross proceeds (as described in Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). As of June 30, 2011, additional shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of up to $69,572,000 are available under two effective shelf registration statements. Although we believe we can raise sufficient capital to meet our obligations through fiscal year 2012, our ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the market demand for our common stock. The market demand or liquidity of our common stock is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, negative economic conditions, adverse market conditions, adverse clinical trials results, and significant delays in one or more clinical trials. If our ability to access the capital markets becomes severely restricted, it could have a negative impact on our business plans, including our clinical trial programs and other research and development activities. In addition, even if we are able to raise additional capital, it may not be at a price or on terms that are favorable to us. We may also raise additional capital through licensing our products in development, procuring new government contracts and grants, or increasing revenue from our wholly owned subsidiary, Avid. With respect to financing our operations through procuring government contracts and grants, on October 29, 2010, we were awarded an aggregate cash grant of approximately $978,000 under Section 48D of the Internal Revenue Code as reimbursement for four separate qualifying therapeutic discovery projects, which we applied for under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. While we will continue to explore these potential opportunities, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in procuring additional government contracts and grants, or that sufficient additional revenue will be generated from Avid or under potential licensing or partnering agreements to complete the research, development, and clinical testing of our product candidates. 22 Based on our current projections, which include projected revenues under signed contracts with existing customers of Avid, and assuming we do not generate any additional revenues or raise any additional capital from the capital markets or other potential sources, we believe we have sufficient cash on hand combined with amounts expected to be received from Avid customers to meet our obligations as they become due through at least the second quarter of our fiscal year 2012 ending October 31, 2011. There are a number of uncertainties associated with our financial projections, including but not limited to, termination of third party contracts, technical challenges, the rate at which patients are enrolled into any current or future clinical trials, of which, could reduce or delay our future projected cash flows. In addition, in the event our projected cash-inflows are reduced or delayed we might not have sufficient capital to operate our business through the second quarter of our fiscal year 2012 unless we raise additional capital. The uncertainties surrounding our future cash inflows have raised substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our outstanding indebtedness to MidCap Financial LLC and BlueCrest Capital Finance, L.P. imposes certain restrictions on how we conduct our business. in addition, all of our assets, including our intellectual property, are pledged to secure this indebtedness. if we fail to meet our obligations to the lenders, our payment obligations may be accelerated and the collateral securing the debt may be sold to satisfy these obligations. Pursuant to a Loan and Security Agreement dated December 9, 2008 (the “Loan Agreement”), MidCap Financial LLC and BlueCrest Capital Finance, L.P. (the “Lenders”) provided us a three-year, $5,000,000 working capital loan, which funded on December 19, 2008. At April 30, 2011, we had an outstanding principal balance of $1,333,000 under the Loan Agreement. As collateral to secure our repayment obligations to the Lenders, we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Avid Bioservices, Inc., have granted the Lenders a first priority security interest in generally all of our respective assets, including our intellectual property. The Loan Agreement also contains various covenants that restrict our operating flexibility. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, without the prior written consent of the Lenders we may not, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness, except for certain permitted indebtedness. Permitted indebtedness is defined to include accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business and leases of equipment or property incurred in the ordinary course of business not to exceed in the aggregate $500,000 outstanding at any one time; · incur additional liens on any of our assets except for certain permitted liens including but not limited to non-exclusive licenses of our intellectual property in the ordinary course of business and exclusive licenses of intellectual property provided they are approved by our board of directors and do not involve bavituximab or Cotara; · make any payment of subordinated debt, except as permitted under the applicable subordination or intercreditor agreement; · merge with or acquire any other entity, or sell all or substantially all of our assets, except as permitted under the Loan Agreement; · pay dividends (other than stock dividends) to our shareholders; · redeem any outstanding shares of our common stock or any outstanding options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock except in connection with the repurchase of stock from former employees and consultants pursuant to share repurchase agreements provided such repurchases do not exceed $50,000 in the aggregate during any twelve-month period; · enter into transactions with affiliates other than on arms-length terms; and · make any change in any of our business objectives, purposes and operations which has or could be reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we must maintain a cash and cash equivalents balance of at least 80% of the outstanding loan balance (or $1,067,000 as of April 30, 2011). 23 These provisions could have important consequences for us, including (i) making it more difficult for us to obtain additional debt financing from another lender, or obtain new debt financing on terms favorable to us, because a new lender will have to be willing to be subordinate to the lenders, (ii) causing us to use a portion of our available cash for debt repayment and service rather than other perceived needs and/or (iii) impacting our ability to take advantage of significant, perceived business opportunities. Our failure to timely repay our obligations under the Loan Agreement or meet the covenants set forth in the Loan Agreement could give rise to a default under the agreement. In the event of an uncured default, the Loan Agreement provides that all amounts owed to the Lender may be declared immediately due and payable and the Lenders have the right to enforce their security interest in the assets securing the Loan Agreement. In such event, the Lenders could take possession of any or all of our assets in which they hold a security interest, and dispose of those assets to the extent necessary to pay off our debts, which would materially harm our business. We Have Had Significant Losses And We Anticipate Future Losses. We have incurred net losses in most fiscal years since we began operations in 1981. The following table represents net losses incurred for each of the past three fiscal years: Net Loss Fiscal Year 2011 $ 34,151,000 Fiscal Year 2010 $ 14,494,000 Fiscal Year 2009 $ 16,524,000 As of April 30, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $296,005,000. While we expect to continue to generate revenues from Avid’s contract manufacturing services, in order to achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our products, either alone or with others, and must also manufacture, introduce, market and sell our products. The costs associated with clinical trials and product manufacturing is very expensive and the time frame necessary to achieve market success for our products is long and uncertain. We do not expect to generate product or royalty revenues for at least the next two years, and we may never generate product and/or royalty revenues sufficient to become profitable or to sustain profitability. The sale of substantial shares of our common stock may depress our stock price. As of April 30, 2011, there were 69,837,142 shares of our common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are eligible for trading in the public market, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. The market price of our common stock may decline if our common stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur. We could also issue up to 14,046,701 additional shares of our common stock that are reserved for future issuance under our stock incentive plans, employee stock purchase plan, and for outstanding warrants, as further described in the following table: Number of Shares Reserved Common shares reserved for issuance under outstanding option and restricted stock award grants and available for issuance under our stock incentive plans 8,931,578 Common shares reserved for and available for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan 4,895,156 Common shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants 219,967 Total shares of common stock reserved for issuance 14,046,701 24 In addition, the above table does not include shares of common stock that we have available to issue under our current effective shelf registration statements, under which we may issue, from time to time, in one or more offerings, shares of our common stock for remaining aggregate gross proceeds of up to $71,712,000 as of April 30, 2011. Of the total options, restricted stock awards and warrants outstanding as of April 30, 2011, 1,064,826 would be considered dilutive to stockholders because we would receive an amount per share which is less than the market price of our common stock at April 30, 2011. In addition, we will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the market price of our securities may decline and our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. Current economic conditions and capital markets are in a period of disruption and instability which could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets, and thus adversely affect our business and liquidity. The current economic conditions and financial crisis have had, and will continue to have, a negative impact on our ability to access the capital markets, and thus have a negative impact on our business and liquidity. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with the substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended worldwide recession. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the capital markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets has been and continues to be severely restricted at a time when we need to access such markets, which could have a negative impact on our business plans, including our clinical trial programs and other research and development activities. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, it may not be at a price or on terms that are favorable to us. We cannot predict the occurrence of future disruptions or how long the current conditions may continue. Our highly volatile stock price and trading volume may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. The market price of our common stock and the market prices of securities of companies in the biotechnology sector have generally been highly volatile and are likely to continue to be highly volatile. The following table shows the high and low sales price and trading volume of our common stock for each quarter in the three fiscal years ended April 30, 2011: Common Stock Sales Price Common Stock Daily Trading Volume (000’s omitted) High Low High Low Fiscal Year 2011 Quarter Ended April 30, 2011 $ 2.74 $ 2.05 929 152 Quarter Ended January 31, 2011 $ 3.10 $ 1.46 3,434 105 Quarter Ended October 31, 2010 $ 2.08 $ 1.25 4,997 118 Quarter Ended July 31, 2010 $ 4.14 $ 1.51 9,520 140 Fiscal Year 2010 Quarter Ended April 30, 2010 $ 4.30 $ 2.86 1,278 66 Quarter Ended January 31, 2010 $ 3.46 $ 2.51 1,384 49 Quarter Ended October 31, 2009 $ 4.74 $ 2.74 2,243 64 Quarter Ended July 31, 2009 $ 5.65 $ 1.85 7,345 39 Fiscal Year 2009 Quarter Ended April 30, 2009 $ 2.60 $ 1.52 702 14 Quarter Ended January 31, 2009 $ 2.35 $ 1.10 260 19 Quarter Ended October 31, 2008 $ 2.00 $ 1.15 263 15 Quarter Ended July 31, 2008 $ 2.65 $ 1.54 599 21 25 The market price of our common stock may be significantly impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; · publicity regarding actual or potential company-sponsored clinical trial and investigator-sponsored clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; · significant changes in our financial results or that of our competitors, including our abilities to continue as a going concern; · the offering and sale of shares of our common stock at a discount under an equity transaction; · significant changes in our capital structure; · published reports by securities analysts; · announcements of licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, and any other transaction that involves the sale or use of our technologies or competitive technologies; · developments and/or disputes concerning our patent or proprietary rights; · regulatory developments and product safety concerns; · general stock trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry sectors; · public concerns as to the safety and effectiveness of our products; · economic trends and other external factors, including but not limited to, interest rate fluctuations, economic recession, inflation, foreign market trends, national crisis, and disasters; and · healthcare reimbursement reform and cost-containment measures implemented by government agencies. These and other external factors have caused and may continue to cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock, and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. The liquidity of our common stock will be adversely affected if our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. To maintain inclusion on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we must continue to meet the following six listing requirements: 1. Net tangible assets of at least $2,500,000 or market capitalization of at least $35,000,000 or net income of at least $500,000 in either our latest fiscal year or in two of our last three fiscal years; 2. Public float of at least 500,000 shares; 3. Market value of our public float of at least $1,000,000; 4. A minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share of common stock, without falling below this minimum bid price for a period of thirty consecutive trading days; 5. At least two market makers; and 6. At least 300 stockholders, each holding at least 100 shares of common stock. Although we currently meet all NASDAQ Capital Market listing requirements, the market price of our common stock has generally been highly volatile and we cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain compliance with The NASDAQ Capital Market listing requirements. If our common stock is ever delisted, we would apply to have our common stock quoted on the OTCQX, the world’s largest interdealer quotation system, which is operated by OTC Market Groups, Inc. Upon any such delisting, our common stock would become subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the market for penny stocks. A penny stock, as defined by the Penny Stock Reform Act, is any equity security not traded on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock regulations generally require that a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith be delivered to purchasers of penny stocks and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The broker-dealer must make a suitability determination for each purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement prior to the sale. In addition, the broker-dealer must make certain mandated disclosures, including the actual sale or purchase price and actual bid offer quotations, as well as the compensation to be received by the broker-dealer and certain associated persons. The regulations applicable to penny stocks may severely affect the market liquidity for our common stock and could limit your ability to sell your securities in the secondary market. 26 Successful development of our products is uncertain. To date, no revenues have been generated from the commercial sale of our products and our products may not generate revenues in the future. Our development of current and future product candidates is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include: · delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · failure in clinical trials or failure to receive regulatory approvals; · emergence of superior or equivalent products; · inability to manufacture on our own, or through others, product candidates on a commercial scale; · inability to market products due to third party proprietary rights; and · failure to achieve market acceptance. Because of these risks, our research and development efforts or those of our partners may not result in any commercially viable products. If significant portions of these development efforts are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals are not obtained, or any approved products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Because we have not begun the commercial sale of any of our products, our revenue and profit potential is unproven and our limited operating history makes it difficult for an investor to evaluate our business and prospects. Our technology may not result in any meaningful benefits to our current or potential partners. No revenues have been generated from the commercial sale of our products, and our products may not generate revenues in the future. Our business and prospects should be considered in light of the heightened risks and unexpected expenses and problems we may face as a company in an early stage of development in a new and rapidly evolving industry. We are primarily focusing our activities and resources on the development of bavituximab and depend on its success. We are focusing most of our near-term research and development activities and resources on bavituximab, and we believe a significant portion of the value of our Company relates to our ability to develop this drug candidate. The development of bavituximab is subject to many risks, including the risks discussed in other risk factors. If the results of clinical trials of bavituximab, the regulatory decisions affecting bavituximab, the anticipated or actual timing and plan for commercializing bavituximab, or, ultimately, the market acceptance of bavituximab do not meet our, your, analysts’ or others’ expectations, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 27 Our product development efforts may not be successful. Our product candidates have not received regulatory approval and are generally in research, preclinical and various clinical stages of development. If the results from any of the clinical trials are not positive, those results may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or obtain regulatory approval to conduct additional clinical trials, which will affect our ability to continue full-scale research and development for our antibody technologies. In addition, our product candidates may take longer than anticipated to progress through clinical trials, or patient enrollment in the clinical trials may be delayed or prolonged significantly, thus delaying the clinical trials. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to the clinical sites, and the eligibility criteria for the study. In addition, because our Cotara product currently in clinical trials represents a departure from more commonly used methods for cancer treatment, potential patients and their doctors may be inclined to use conventional therapies, such as chemotherapy, rather than enroll patients in any future clinical study. Clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we or our potential partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our potential partners will have to conduct extensive preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The length of time may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting preclinical or clinical trials may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. Moreover, we may continue to be affected by delays associated with the preclinical testing and clinical trials of certain product candidates conducted by our partners over which we have no control. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, for example: · obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment due to narrow screening requirements; · the inability of patients to meet FDA or other regulatory authorities imposed protocol requirements; · the inability to retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to various clinical or personal reasons, or who are lost to further follow-up; · the inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, for use in clinical trials; · the need or desire to modify our manufacturing processes; · the inability to adequately observe patients after treatment; · changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials; · the lack of effectiveness during the clinical trials; · unforeseen safety issues; · delays, suspension, or termination of the clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; and · government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of the trials. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or initial clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates employing our technology. Clinical trials that we conduct or that third-parties conduct on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. We expect to commence new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for our desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate as well as other product candidates. Any change in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. If those parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all. In the course of our discovery, preclinical testing and clinical trials, we rely on third parties, including universities, investigators and clinical research organizations, to perform critical services for us. For example, we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. Clinical research organizations and investigators are responsible for many aspects of the trials, including finding and enrolling patients for testing and administering the trials. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. These third parties may not be available when we need them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner, and we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. These independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. In addition, if such third parties fail to perform their obligations in compliance with our clinical trial protocols, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements or may need to be repeated. As a result of our dependence on third parties, we may face delays or failures outside of our direct control. These risks also apply to the development activities of our collaborators, and we do not control our collaborators’ research and development, clinical trials or regulatory activities. We do not expect any drugs resulting from our collaborators’ research and development efforts to be commercially available for many years, if ever. In addition, we have prepaid research and development expenses to third parties that have been deferred and capitalized as pre-payments to secure the receipt of future preclinical and clinical research and development services. These pre-payments are recognized as an expense in the period that the services are performed. We assess our prepaid research and development expenses for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the prepaid expense may not be recoverable or provide a future economic benefit, including the risk of third party nonperformance. If there are indicators that the third parties are unable to perform the research and development services, we may be required to take an impairment charge. We do not have experience as a company conducting large-scale clinical trials, or in other areas required for the successful commercialization and marketing of our product candidates. Preliminary results from clinical trials of bavituximab may not be indicative of successful outcomes in later stage trials. Negative or limited results from any current or future clinical trial could delay or prevent further development of our product candidates which would adversely affect our business. 29 We have no experience as a Company in conducting large-scale, late-stage clinical trials, and our experience with early-stage clinical trials with small numbers of patients is limited. In part because of this limited experience, we cannot be certain that planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time, if at all. Large-scale trials would require either additional financial and management resources, or reliance on third-party clinical investigators, contract research organizations (“CROs”) or consultants. Relying on third-party clinical investigators or CROs may force us to encounter delays that are outside of our control. Any such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also do not currently have marketing and distribution capabilities for our product candidates. Developing an internal sales and distribution capability would be an expensive and time-consuming process. We may enter into agreements with third parties that would be responsible for marketing and distribution. However, these third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our product candidates. The inability to commercialize and market our product candidates could materially affect our business. Failure to recruit, enroll, and retain patients for clinical trials may cause the development of our product candidates to be delayed or development costs to increase substantially. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, delays in patient enrollment in our clinical trials for a variety of reasons. The timely completion of clinical trials in accordance with their protocols depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients who remain in the study until its conclusion. The enrollment of subjects depends on many factors, including: · the patient eligibility criteria defined in the protocol; · the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial’s primary endpoints; · the proximity of patients to study sites; · the design of the trial; · our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience; · our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; · the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion; and · competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other treatments. Our clinical trials compete with other clinical trials for product candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as our product candidates, and this competition reduces the number and types of subjects available to us, because some patients who might have opted to enroll in our trials opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by one of our competitors. Since the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we conduct some of our clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which reduces the number of subjects who are available for our clinical trials in such clinical trial site. Delays in patient enrollment in the future as a result of these and other factors may result in increased costs or may affect the timing or outcome of our clinical trials, which could prevent us from completing these trials and adversely affect our ability to advance the development of our product candidates. Enrollment in Our international clinical Sites may be delayed or otherwise adversely impacted by social, political and economic factors affecting the particular foreign country. We have in the past conducted, are currently conducting and intend in the future to conduct, clinical trials globally including clinical sites in India and other countries. Our ability to successfully initiate, enroll and complete a clinical trial in any foreign country is subject to numerous risks unique to conducting business in foreign countries, including: · difficulty in establishing or managing relationships with clinical research organizations and physicians; · different standards for the conduct of clinical trials and/or health care reimbursement; · our inability to locate qualified local consultants, physicians, and partners; · the potential burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, medical standards and regulatory requirements, including the regulation of pharmaceutical products and treatment; and · general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability, and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. Because some of the trial sites for our recently initiated Phase IIb non-small cell lung cancer trials will be in India and other foreign countries, any disruption to our international clinical trial sites could significantly delay our product development efforts. 30 Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. A number of new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from our preclinical studies and Phase I and initial Phase II clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. The Phase I studies we have completed to date have been designed to primarily assess safety in a small number of patients. In addition, the limited results we have obtained in the Phase II trials may not predict results for any future studies and also may not predict future therapeutic benefit of our drug candidates. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that bavituximab and Cotara are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approval for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. If we successfully develop products but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be profitable. Even if bavituximab, Cotara, or any future product candidate is approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: · our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; · availability of alternative treatments; · pricing and cost effectiveness; · effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategy; and · our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. In addition, if bavituximab, Cotara, or any future product candidate that we discover and develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is more beneficial than the current standard of care or otherwise provide patient benefit, that product likely will not be accepted favorably by the market. If any products we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, then we may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost effective or render our products obsolete. 31 If we do not establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development plans. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. We either own or in-licensed all rights to our two lead drug candidates, bavituximab and Cotara, and are fully responsible for the associated development costs. Our strategy continues to include the potential of selectively collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of some of our drug candidates and research programs. We may enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future, especially for target indications in which the potential collaborator has particular therapeutic expertise or that involve a large, primary care market that must be served by large sales and marketing organizations or for markets outside of North America. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully enter into a collaboration, we cannot provide assurance that our partner will perform its contractual obligations or will not terminate the agreement. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our drug candidates to market and generate product revenue. Healthcare reform measures and other statutory or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our business. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted and President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which includes a number of healthcare reform provisions. The reforms imposed by the new law will significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry, most likely in the area of pharmaceutical product pricing; however, the full effects of new law cannot be known until these provisions are implemented and the relevant federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to extensive regulation, and from time to time legislative bodies and governmental agencies consider changes to such regulations that could have significant impact on industry participants. For example, in light of certain highly-publicized safety issues regarding certain drugs that had received marketing approval, the U.S. Congress has considered various proposals regarding drug safety, including some which would require additional safety studies and monitoring and could make drug development more costly. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to safety or other aspects of drug development may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are also affected by the efforts of governments, third-party payors and others to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare to consumers. In the United States and various foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system, such as proposals relating to the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price) and government control of prescription drug pricing. The pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our share price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic collaborations or licenses. 32 If we cannot license or sell Cotara, it may be delayed or never be further developed in the U.S. We have completed Phase II studies with Cotara for the treatment of brain cancer. In our most recent Phase II open-label, multicenter trial, 41 GBM patients at first relapse were enrolled and received a single-treatment with Cotara. The primary endpoint was safety and tolerability of the maximum tolerated dose. Secondary endpoints include median OS, median PFS, and proportion of patients alive at six months after treatments. Median OS for patients treated with Cotara was 8.8 months (38 weeks), consistent with a prior Phase II trial. Currently, the six-month, 12-month and 24-month survival estimates are 73%, 38% and 19%, respectively, and two patients survived three years after single treatment with Cotara. Based on these data, we are preparing for a planned meeting with the FDA in the fourth quarter of this year to define the optimal registration path for Cotara. Based on the patient size and design of the registration study, we may not have the financial resources internally to complete the larger registration study. We may therefore seek a licensing or funding partner for Cotara, and hope that the data and trial design will enhance our opportunities of finding such partner. If a partner is not found for this technology in the U.S., we may not be able to advance the project past its current state of development. Because there are a limited number of companies which have the financial resources, the internal infrastructure, the technical capability and the marketing infrastructure to develop and market a radiopharmaceutical-based oncology drug, we may not find a suitable partnering candidate for Cotara. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that if we do find a suitable licensing partner, the financial terms that they propose will be acceptable to us. Our dependency on our radiolabeling suppliers may negatively impact our ability to complete Future clinical trials and market our products. We have procured and anticipate we will continue to procure our antibody radioactive isotope combination services (“radiolabeling”) for our Cotara clinical trials from Iso-tex Diagnostics, Inc. (for potential future patients enrolled in the U.S.) and from the Board of Radiation & Isotope Technology (“BRIT”) (for potential future patients enrolled in India). Although we order radiolabeling services on an as needed basis through an agreed upon purchase order, we do not have any arrangements with either Iso-tex Diagnostics, Inc. or BRIT that would require either supplier to radiolabel our product. In the event that either supplier was unable to provide the radiolabeling services for future studies, we would have to temporarily shift patient enrollment to the country (U.S. or India) able to continue providing the radiolabeling services which could significantly delay patient enrollment in that potential future study. If both of these suppliers are unable to continue to qualify its respective facility or radiolabel and supply our antibody in a timely manner, any future potential clinical trial using radiolabeling technology could be adversely affected and could be significantly delayed. While there are other suppliers for radioactive isotope combination services in the U.S. and India, a future clinical trial could be delayed for up to twelve to eighteen months because it may take that amount of time to certify a new facility under current Good Manufacturing Practices and qualify the product, plus we would incur significant costs to transfer our technology to another vendor. In addition, the number of facilities that can perform these radiolabeling services is very limited. Prior to commercial distribution of any of our products, if approved, we will be required to identify and contract with a company for commercial antibody manufacturing and radioactive isotope combination services. An antibody that has been combined with a radioactive isotope, such as Iodine-131, cannot be stored for long periods of time, as it must be used within one week of being radiolabeled to be effective. Accordingly, any change in our existing or future contractual relationships with, or an interruption in supply from, any such third-party service provider or antibody supplier could negatively impact our ability to complete any potential future clinical trial conducted by us or a potential licensing partner. 33 Our manufacturing facilities may not continue to meet regulatory requirements and have limited capacity. Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements. To be successful, our therapeutic products must be manufactured for development and, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. Currently, we manufacture all preclinical and clinical material through Avid Bioservices, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary. While we believe our current facilities are adequate for the manufacturing of product candidates for clinical trials, our facilities may not be adequate to produce sufficient quantities of any products for commercial sale. If we are unable to establish and maintain a manufacturing facility or secure third-party manufacturing capacity within our planned time frame and cost parameters, the development and sales of our products, if approved, may be materially harmed. We may also encounter problems with the following: · production yields; · quality control and quality assurance; · shortages of qualified personnel; · compliance with FDA or other regulatory authorities regulations, including the demonstration of purity and potency; · changes in FDA or other regulatory authorities requirements; · production costs; and/or · development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. In addition, we or any third-party manufacturer will be required to register the manufacturing facilities with the FDA and other regulatory authorities, provided it had not already registered. The facilities will be subject to inspections confirming compliance with cGMP or other regulations. If any of our third-party manufacturers or we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug product or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We may have significant product liability exposure because we maintain only limited product liability insurance. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the administration of one of our drugs during a clinical trial adversely affects or causes the death of a patient. Although we maintain product liability insurance for clinical studies in the amount of $3,000,000 per occurrence or $3,000,000 in the aggregate on a claims-made basis, this coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, or a product recall, could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the contract manufacturing services that we offer through Avid expose us to an inherent risk of liability as the antibodies or other substances manufactured by Avid, at the request and to the specifications of our customers, could possibly cause adverse effects or have product defects. We obtain agreements from our customers indemnifying and defending us from any potential liability arising from such risk. There can be no assurance that such indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against potential claims relating to such contract manufacturing services or protect us from being named in a possible lawsuit. Although Avid has procured insurance coverage, there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims to which we might be exposed. A partially successful or completely uninsured claim against Avid would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operations. 34 If we are unable to obtain, protect and enforce our patent rights, we may be unable to effectively protect or exploit our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, protect and enforce commercially valuable patents. We try to protect our proprietary positions by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to developing our business. However, if we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection for our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements, our competitors could develop and commercialize products that would otherwise infringe upon our patents. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical fields are still evolving. Accordingly, the degree of future protection for our patent rights is uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents include the following: · the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; · the claims of any patents that issue may not provide meaningful protection; · we may be unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; · the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; · other parties may challenge patents licensed or issued to us; · disputes may arise regarding the invention and corresponding ownership rights in inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us, our licensors, corporate partners and other scientific collaborators; and · other parties may design around our patented technologies. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. In addition, we may become subject to interference or opposition proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority and patentability of inventions. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings, would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our pending patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. This disclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial results. 35 We may not be able to compete with our competitors in the Biotechnology Industry because many of them have greater resources than we do and they are further along in their development efforts. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Many of the drugs that we are attempting to discover or develop will be competing with existing therapies. In addition, we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in research and development of antibody-based products that have commenced clinical trials with, or have successfully commercialized, antibody products. Some or all of these companies may have greater financial resources, larger technical staffs, and larger research budgets than we have, as well as greater experience in developing products and running clinical trials. We expect to continue to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. In addition, there may be other companies which are currently developing competitive technologies and products or which may in the future develop technologies and products that are comparable or superior to our technologies and products. Bavituximab is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of advanced solid tumors, including NSCLC and pancreatic cancer. Although we are not aware of any other products in clinical development targeting PS as a potential therapy for advanced solid tumors, there are a number of possible competitors with approved or developmental targeted agents used alone or in combination with standard chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer, including but not limited to, Avastin® (bevacizumab) by Roche/Genentech, Gleevec® (imatinib) by Novartis, Tarceva® (erlotinib) by OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Roche/Genentech, Erbitux® (Cetuximab) by ImClone Systems Incorporated and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Rituxan® (rituximab) and Herceptin® (trastuzumab) by Roche/Genentech, Vectibix® (panitumumab) by Amgen, afatinib by Boehringer Ingelheim, crizotinib by Pfizer, iniparib by Sanofi-Aventis, ARQ-197 by ArQule and Daiichi Sankyo, and Yervoy® (ipilimumab) by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Additional possible competitors also exist with approved or developmental immunotherapies including but not limited to Provenge® (sipuleucel-T) and other Active Cellular Immunotherapy candidates by Dendreon, Emepepimut-S by Biomira and EMD Serono, and Astuprotimut-r by GlaxoSmithKline. There are a significant number of companies developing cancer therapeutics using a variety of targeted and non-targeted approaches. A direct comparison of these potential competitors will not be possible until bavituximab advances to later-stage clinical trials. In addition, we are evaluating bavituximab in combination with ribavirin as a potential replacement for the pegylated interferon alpha component for the current standard of care for HCV. We are aware of no other products in clinical development targeting PS as a potential therapy for HCV. There are a number of companies that have products approved and on the market for the treatment of HCV, including but not limited to: Peg-Intron® (pegylated interferon-alpha-2b), Rebetol® (ribavirin), which are marketed by Merck, and Pegasys® (pegylated interferon-alpha-2a) and Copegus® (ribavirin USP), which are marketed by Roche, INCIVEKTM (telaprevir) by Vertex, Victrelis® (boceprevir) by Merck, and Infergen® (interferon alfacon-1) marketed by Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC. The cornerstone of HCV therapy remains pegylated interferon alpha with ribavirin and recently approved telaprevir or boceprevir are being added to this regimen. Pegylated interferon alpha is generally associated with considerable toxicity including flu-like symptoms, hematologic changes and central nervous system side effects including depression and it is not uncommon for patients to discontinue therapy because they are unable to tolerate the side effects. Other developmental immunomodulatory treatments with the potential to replace interferon-alpha in HCV therapeutic regimens include but are not limited to monoclonal antibodies such as CT-011 by CureTech and TEVA, novel interferons such as pegylated interferon lambda by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Interferon alpha 2b XL by Flamel Technologies, Interferon Alpha 5 by Digna Biotech, Locteron® by Biolex Therapeutics, and Hanferon by HanAll BioPharma, therapeutic vaccines such as AdCh3NSmut and Ad6NSmut by Okiros, CheonVac-C by Inovio/Tripep, GI-5005 by Globeimmune, IC41 by Intercell AG, and TG4040 by Transgene, toll-like receptor agonists such as ANA-773 by Anadys, GS 9629 by Gilead, and IMO-2125 by Idera Pharmaceuticals, as well as other developmental immunomodulatory compounds including but not limited to CYT-107 by Cytheris, and NOV-205 by Novelos. Other developmental candidates include, but are not limited to protease inhibitors, polymerase inhibitors, cyclophilin inhibitors and other direct-acting antiviral candidates such as ANA-508 by Anadys, Danoprevir by Roche, DEB-205 by Novartis and Debiopharm, Filibuvir by Pfizer, PSI-7977 by Pharmasset, nitazoxanide by Romark and Chugai, RG7128 by Pharmasset, and TMC435 by Medivir and Johnson & Johnson. There are a significant number of companies developing HCV therapeutics using a variety of approaches. A direct comparison of these potential competitors will not be possible until bavituximab advances to later-stage clinical trials. 36 We are developing Cotara for the treatment of recurrent GBM, the most aggressive form of brain cancer. Approved treatments for brain cancer include the Gliadel® Wafer (polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant) from Eisai, Inc., Temodar® (temozolomide) from Merck, Avastin® (bevacizumab) from Roche/Genentech, and the NovoTTF-100A System by Novocure. Gliadel Wafers are inserted in the tumor cavity following surgical resection and releases a chemotherapeutic agent over time. Temodar is administered orally to patients with brain cancer. Avastin is a monoclonal antibody that targets vascular endothelial growth factor (“VEGF”) to prevent the formation of new tumor blood vessels. The NovoTTF-100A system is a portable, wearable device that delivers an anti-mitotic, anti-cancer therapy. Because Cotara is a single-treatment approach that targets brain tumors from the inside out, it is a novel treatment dissimilar from other drugs in development for this disease. Some products in development may compete with Cotara should they become approved for marketing. These products include, but are not limited to: 131I-TM601, a radiolabeled chlorotoxin peptide being developed by TransMolecular, Inc., CDX-110, a peptide vaccine under development by Celldex, cilengitide, an integrin-targeting peptide being evaluated by Merck KGaA, cediranib, a VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor being developed by AstraZeneca, and DCVax® a dendritic cell-based vaccine being developed by Northwest Biotherapeutics. In addition, oncology products marketed for other indications such as Gleevec® (Novartis), Tarceva® (Genentech/OSI), Nexavar® (Bayer/Onyx), and afatinib by Boehringer Ingelheim are being tested in clinical trials for the treatment of brain cancer. Avid Bioservices, Inc., our subsidiary, is exposed to risks resulting from its small customer base. A significant portion of Avid Bioservices’ revenues have historically been derived from a small customer base. These customers typically do not enter into long-term contracts because their need for drug supply depends on a variety of factors, including the drug’s stage of development, their financial resources, and, with respect to commercial drugs, demand for the drug in the market. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if revenue from any one of our primary customers is significantly reduced or eliminated. If we lose qualified management and scientific personnel or are unable to attract and retain such personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop our products or we may be significantly delayed in developing our products. Our success is dependent, in part, upon a limited number of key executive officers, each of whom is an at-will employee, and also upon our scientific researchers. For example, because of his extensive understanding of our technologies and product development programs, the loss of Mr. Steven W. King, our President & Chief Executive Officer and Director, would adversely affect our development efforts and clinical trial programs during the six to twelve month period that we estimate it would take to find and train a qualified replacement. We also believe that our future success will depend largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled research and development and technical personnel. We face intense competition in our recruiting activities, including competition from larger companies with greater resources. We do not know if we will be successful in attracting or retaining skilled personnel. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to attract and retain other qualified employees could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. 37 Our Governance Documents and State Law provide certain anti-takeover measures which will discourage a third party from seeking to acquire us unless approved by the Board of Directors. We adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” on March 16, 2006. The purpose of the shareholder rights plan is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to our stockholders as determined by our Board of Directors. Under the plan, the acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock by any person or group, unless approved by our board of directors, will trigger the right of our stockholders (other than the acquiror of 15% or more of our common stock) to acquire additional shares of our common stock, and, in certain cases, the stock of the potential acquiror, at a 50% discount to market price, thus significantly increasing the acquisition cost to a potential acquiror. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain additional anti-takeover protective devices. For example, · no stockholder action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote; solicitations by consent are thus prohibited; · special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our Board of Directors; and · our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and issue shares, of preferred stock. An issuance of preferred stock with dividend and liquidation rights senior to the common stock and convertible into a large number of shares of common stock could prevent a potential acquiror from gaining effective economic or voting control. Further, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. Although we believe these provisions and our rights plan collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 