ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Peregrine, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our potential product sales, potential royalties, contract manufacturing revenues, expenses, net income(loss) and earnings(loss) per common share. If We Cannot Obtain Additional Funding, Our Product Development And Commercialization Efforts May Be Reduced Or Discontinued And We May Not Be Able To Continue Operations. At June 30, 2007, we had approximately $32.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, including $20.9 million in net proceeds received under a Securities Purchase Agreement dated June 28, 2007. We have expended substantial funds on (i) the research, development and clinical trials of our product candidates, and (ii) funding the operations of our wholly owned subsidiary, Avid Bioservices, Inc. As a result, we have historically experienced negative cash flows from operations since our inception and we expect the negative cash flows from operations to continue for the foreseeable future, unless and until we are able to generate sufficient revenues from Avid’s contract manufacturing services and/or from the sale and/or licensing of our products under development. Revenues earned by Avid during fiscal years ended April 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $3,492,000, $3,005,000 and $4,684,000, respectively. We expect that Avid will continue to generate revenues which should partially offset our consolidated cash flows used in operations, although we expect those near term revenues will be insufficient to cover total anticipated cash flows used in operations. In addition, revenues from the sale and/or licensing of our products under development are always uncertain. Therefore, our ability to continue our clinical trials and development efforts is highly dependent on the amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand combined with our ability to raise additional capital to support our future operations beyond fiscal year 2008. We currently expect our monthly negative cash flow to continue for the foreseeable future due to the anticipated increase in clinical trials, including trials associated with bavituximab for the treatment of both solid tumors and hepatitis C virus (“HCV”) infection and trials associated with Cotara® for the treatment of brain cancer. In addition, we plan to expend additional resources on our continued research and development directed towards our other technologies in pre-clinical development, and our possible expansion of our manufacturing capabilities. We plan to obtain any necessary funding to support the costs of our clinical and pre-clinical programs through one or more methods including either equity or debt financing and/or negotiating additional licensing or collaboration agreements for our technology platforms. As of June 30, 2007, we had an aggregate of approximately 5,031,000 shares available under our existing Form S-3 registration statements for possible future registered transactions. In addition, during January 2007, we filed a separate shelf registration statement on Form S-3, File Number 333-139975, which allows us to issue, from time to time, in one or more offerings, shares of our common stock for remaining proceeds of up to $7,500,000. The costs associated with clinical trials and product manufacturing is very expensive and the time frame necessary to achieve market success for our products is long and uncertain. However, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in raising such funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that sufficient additional capital will be raised to complete the research, development, and clinical testing of our product candidates. We Have Had Significant Losses And We Anticipate Future Losses. We have incurred net losses in most fiscal years since we began operations in 1981. The following table represents net losses incurred during the past three fiscal years: Net Loss Fiscal Year 2007 $ 20,796,000 Fiscal Year 2006 $ 17,061,000 Fiscal Year 2005 $ 15,452,000 19 As of April 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $207,660,000. While we expect to continue to generate revenues from Avid’s contract manufacturing services, in order to achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our products, either alone or with others, and must also manufacture, introduce, market and sell our products. The costs associated with clinical trials and product manufacturing is very expensive and the time frame necessary to achieve market success for our products is long and uncertain. We do not expect to generate product or royalty revenues for at least the next two years, and we may never generate product revenues sufficient to become profitable or to sustain profitability. The Sale Of Substantial Shares Of Our Common Stock May Depress Our Stock Price. As of June 30, 2007, we had approximately 226,166,000 shares of our common stock outstanding, including 30,000,000 shares of our common stock that were issued pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement dated June 28, 2007. Substantially all of these shares are eligible for trading in the public market, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. The market price of our common stock may decline if our common stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur. We could also issue up to approximately 21,535,000 additional shares of our common stock that are reserved for future issuance under our shelf registration statements, stock option plans and for outstanding warrants, as further described in the following table: Number of Shares of Common Stock Reserved For Issuance Shares reserved for issuance under two effective shelf registration statements 5,030,634 Common shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding options or reserved for future option grants under our stock incentive plans 16,144,355 Common shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants 360,000 Total 21,534,989 In addition, the above table does not include shares of common stock that we could issue under the registration statement we filed during January 2007 on Form S-3, File Number 333-139975, which allows us to issue, from time to time, in one or more offerings, shares of our common stock for remaining proceeds of up to $7,500,000. Of the total warrants and options outstanding as of June 30, 2007, approximately 1,443,000 options would be considered dilutive to stockholders because we would receive an amount per share which is less than the market price of our common stock at June 30, 2007. In addition, we will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the market price of our securities may decline and our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. 20 Our Highly Volatile Stock Price And Trading Volume May Adversely Affect The Liquidity Of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock and the market prices of securities of companies in the biotechnology sector have generally been highly volatile and are likely to continue to be highly volatile. The following table shows the high and low sales price and trading volume of our common stock for each quarter in the three fiscal years ended April 30, 2007: Common Stock Sales Price Common Stock Daily Trading Volume (000’s omitted) High Low High Low Fiscal Year 2007 Quarter Ended April 30, 2007 $1.26 $0.86 6,214 408 Quarter Ended January 31, 2007 $1.39 $1.09 4,299 203 Quarter Ended October 31, 2006 $1.48 $1.12 3,761 277 Quarter Ended July 31, 2006 $1.99 $1.30 23,790 429 Fiscal Year 2006 Quarter Ended April 30, 2006 $1.76 $1.20 9,922 391 Quarter Ended January 31, 2006 $1.40 $0.88 12,152 251 Quarter Ended October 31, 2005 $1.28 $0.91 4,619 156 Quarter Ended July 31, 2005 $1.31 $0.92 7,715 178 Fiscal Year 2005 Quarter Ended April 30, 2005 $1.64 $1.11 5,945 223 Quarter Ended January 31, 2005 $1.45 $0.99 6,128 160 Quarter Ended October 31, 2004 $1.96 $0.95 2,141 148 Quarter Ended July 31, 2004 $1.92 $0.88 1,749 131 The market price of our common stock may be significantly impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; · publicity regarding actual or potential clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; · our financial results or that of our competitors; · the offering and sale of shares of our common stock at a discount under an equity transaction; · published reports by securities analysts; · announcements of licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, and any other transaction that involves the sale or use of our technologies or competitive technologies; · developments and/or disputes concerning our patent or proprietary rights; · regulatory developments and product safety concerns; · general stock trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry sectors; · public concerns as to the safety and effectiveness of our products; · economic trends and other external factors, including but not limited to, interest rate fluctuations, economic recession, inflation, foreign market trends, national crisis, and disasters; and · healthcare reimbursement reform and cost-containment measures implemented by government agencies. These and other external factors have caused and may continue to cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock, and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. 21 The Liquidity Of Our Common Stock Will Be Adversely Affected If Our Common Stock Is Delisted From The Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock is presently traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market. To maintain inclusion on The Nasdaq Capital Market, we must continue to meet the following six listing requirements: 1. Net tangible assets of at least $2,500,000 or market capitalization of at least $35,000,000 or net income of at least $500,000 in either our latest fiscal year or in two of our last three fiscal years; 2. Public float of at least 500,000 shares; 3. Market value of our public float of at least $1,000,000; 4. A minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share of common stock, without falling below this minimum bid price for a period of thirty consecutive trading days; 5. At least two market makers; and 6. At least 300 stockholders, each holding at least 100 shares of common stock. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain the minimum closing bid price requirement or maintain any of the other requirements in the future. The market price of our common stock has generally been highly volatile. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007, the trading price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market ranged from $0.86 per share to $1.99 per share. Most recently, the closing bid price of our common stock has been below $1.00 since June 12, 2007 or 19 consecutive trading days as of July 9, 2007. If the closing bid price of our common stock is below $1.00 per share for a period of thirty consecutive trading days, we will receive a deficiency notice from NASDAQ®, and we will automatically be afforded a "compliance period" of 180 calendar days within which to regain compliance. To demonstrate compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement, we must maintain a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for 10 consecutive trading days. If we are still not in compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement after the initial 180 calendar day period but we are in compliance with all initial listing requirements other than the bid requirement, we will be afforded an additional "compliance period" of 180 calendar days within which to regain compliance. If we fail to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement or fail to comply with any other The Nasdaq Capital Market listing requirements, the market value of our common stock could fall and holders of common stock would likely find it more difficult to dispose of the common stock. If our common stock is delisted, we would apply to have our common stock quoted on the over-the-counter electronic bulletin board. Upon any such delisting, our common stock would become subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the market for penny stocks. A penny stock, as defined by the Penny Stock Reform Act, is any equity security not traded on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock regulations generally require that a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith be delivered to purchasers of penny stocks and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The broker-dealer must make a suitability determination for each purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement prior to the sale. In addition, the broker-dealer must make certain mandated disclosures, including the actual sale or purchase price and actual bid offer quotations, as well as the compensation to be received by the broker-dealer and certain associated persons. The regulations applicable to penny stocks may severely affect the market liquidity for our common stock and could limit your ability to sell your securities in the secondary market. Successful Development Of Our Products Is Uncertain. To Date, No Revenues Have Been Generated From The Commercial Sale Of Our Products And Our Products May Not Generate Revenues In The Future. Our development of current and future product candidates is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include: · delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · failure in clinical trials or failure to receive regulatory approvals; · emergence of superior or equivalent products; · inability to manufacture on our own, or through others, product candidates on a commercial scale; · inability to market products due to third party proprietary rights; and · failure to achieve market acceptance. 22 Because of these risks, our research and development efforts or those of our partners may not result in any commercially viable products. If significant portions of these development efforts are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals are not obtained, or any approved products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Because we have not begun commercial sales of our products, our revenue and profit potential is unproven and our limited operating history makes it difficult for an investor to evaluate our business and prospects. Our technology may not result in any meaningful benefits to our current or potential partners. No revenues have been generated from the commercial sale of our products, and our products may not generate revenues in the future. Our business and prospects should be considered in light of the heightened risks and unexpected expenses and problems we may face as a company in an early stage of development in a new and rapidly evolving industry. Our Product Development Efforts May Not Be Successful. Our product candidates have not received regulatory approval and are generally in research, pre-clinical and clinical stages of development. If the results from any of the clinical trials are poor, those results may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, which will affect our ability to continue full-scale research and development for our antibody technologies. In addition, our product candidates may take longer than anticipated to progress through clinical trials, or patient enrollment in the clinical trials may be delayed or prolonged significantly, thus delaying the clinical trials. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to the clinical sites, and the eligibility criteria for the study. In addition, because our Cotara® product currently in clinical trials represents a departure from more commonly used methods for cancer treatment, potential patients and their doctors may be inclined to use conventional therapies, such as chemotherapy, rather than enroll patients in our clinical study. Clinical Trials Required For Our Product Candidates Are Expensive And Time Consuming, And Their Outcome Is Uncertain. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we or our potential partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our potential partners will have to conduct extensive pre-clinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The length of time may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting pre-clinical or clinical trials may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. Moreover, we may continue to be affected by delays associated with the pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of certain product candidates conducted by our partners over which we have no control. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, for example: · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment due to narrow screening requirements; · the inability of patients to meet FDA imposed protocol requirements; · the inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, for use in clinical trials; · the need or desire to modify our manufacturing processes; · the inability to adequately observe patients after treatment; · changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials; · the lack of effectiveness during the clinical trials; · unforeseen safety issues; · delays, suspension, or termination of the clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; and · government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of the trials. Even if we obtain positive results from pre-clinical or initial clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates employing our technology. 23 Clinical trials that we conduct or that third-parties conduct on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. We expect to commence new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for our desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate as well as other product candidates. Any change in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Success In Early Clinical Trials May Not Be Indicative Of Results Obtained In Later Trials. A number of new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and our Phase I clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. The Phase I studies we have completed to date have been designed to primarily assess safety in a small number of patients. The limited results we have obtained may not predict results for any future studies and also may not predict future therapeutic benefit. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that bavituximab and Cotara® are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approval for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. If We Successfully Develop Products But Those Products Do Not Achieve And Maintain Market Acceptance, Our Business Will Not Be Profitable. Even if bavituximab, Cotara®, or any future product candidate is approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: · our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; · availability of alternative treatments; · pricing and cost effectiveness; · effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategy; and · our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. In addition, if bavituximab, Cotara®, or any future product candidate that we discover and develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is more beneficial than the current standard of care or otherwise provide patient benefit, that product likely will not be accepted favorably by the market. If any products we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, then we may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost effective or render our products obsolete. 24 If We Cannot License Or Sell Cotara®, It May Be Delayed Or Never Be Further Developed. We have completed Phase I and Phase I/II studies with Cotara® for the treatment of brain cancer. In addition, we are currently conducting a dose confirmation and dosimetry clinical trial in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (“GBM”) in the U.S. In June 2007, we opened enrollment in a Phase II safety and efficacy study in India using a single administration of the drug through an optimized delivery method. Taken together, the current U.S. study along with data collected from the Phase II safety and efficacy study in India should provide the safety, dosimetry and efficacy data that will support the final design of the larger Phase III study. Once we complete these two Cotara® studies for the treatment of GBM, substantial financial resources will be needed to complete the final part of the trial and any additional supportive clinical studies necessary for potential product approval. We do not presently have the financial resources internally to complete the larger Phase III study. We therefore intend to continue to seek a licensing or funding partner for Cotara®, and hope that the data from the U.S. and the Phase II study in India will enhance our opportunities of finding such partner. If a partner is not found for this technology, we may not be able to advance the project past its current state of development. Because there are a limited number of companies which have the financial resources, the internal infrastructure, the technical capability and the marketing infrastructure to develop and market a radiopharmaceutical based anti-cancer drug, we may not find a suitable partnering candidate for Cotara®. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to find a suitable licensing partner for this technology. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if we do find a suitable licensing partner, the financial terms that they propose will be acceptable to the Company. Our Dependency On One Radiolabeling Supplier May Negatively Impact Our Ability To Complete Clinical Trials And Market Our Products. We have procured our antibody radioactive isotope combination services (“radiolabeling”) for Cotara® with Iso-tex Diagnostics, Inc. for all U.S. clinical trials and with the Board of Radiation & Isotope Technology (“BRIT”) for our Phase II study in India. If either of these suppliers are unable to continue to qualify their respective facility or radiolabel and supply our antibody in a timely manner, our current clinical trials using radiolabeling technology could be adversely affected and significantly delayed. While there are other suppliers for radioactive isotope combination services in the U.S., our clinical trial would be delayed for up to twelve to eighteen months because it may take that amount of time to certify a new facility under current Good Manufacturing Practices and qualify the product, plus we would incur significant costs to transfer our technology to another vendor. In addition, the number of companies in India that could perform these radiolabeling services is very limited. Prior to commercial distribution of any of our products, if approved, we will be required to identify and contract with a company for commercial antibody manufacturing and radioactive isotope combination services. An antibody that has been combined with a radioactive isotope, such as Iodine 131, cannot be stored for long periods of time, as it must be used within one week of being radiolabeled to be effective. Accordingly, any change in our existing or future contractual relationships with, or an interruption in supply from, any such third-party service provider or antibody supplier could negatively impact our ability to complete ongoing clinical trials conducted by us or a potential licensing partner. Our Manufacturing Facilities May Not Continue To Meet Regulatory Requirements And Have Limited Capacity. Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP requirements. To be successful, our therapeutic products must be manufactured for development and, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. Currently, we manufacture all pre-clinical and clinical material through Avid Bioservices, our wholly owned subsidiary. While we believe our current facilities are adequate for the manufacturing of product candidates for clinical trials, our facilities may not be adequate to produce sufficient quantities of any products for commercial sale. If we are unable to establish and maintain a manufacturing facility or secure third-party manufacturing capacity within our planned time frame and cost parameters, the development and sales of our products, if approved, may be materially harmed. We may also encounter problems with the following: · production yields; · quality control and quality assurance; · shortages of qualified personnel; · compliance with FDA regulations, including the demonstration of purity and potency; · changes in FDA requirements; · production costs; and/or · development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. 25 In addition, we or any third-party manufacturer will be required to register the manufacturing facilities with the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The facilities will be subject to inspections confirming compliance with cGMP or other regulations. If any of our third-party manufacturers or we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug product or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We May Have Significant Product Liability Exposure Because We Maintain Only Limited Product Liability Insurance. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the administration of one of our drugs during a clinical trial adversely affects or causes the death of a patient. Although we maintain product liability insurance for clinical studies in the amount of $3,000,000 per occurrence or $3,000,000 in the aggregate on a claims-made basis, this coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, or a product recall, could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the contract manufacturing services that we offer through Avid expose us to an inherent risk of liability as the antibodies or other substances manufactured by Avid, at the request and to the specifications of our customers, could possibly cause adverse effects or have product defects. We obtain agreements from our customers indemnifying and defending us from any potential liability arising from such risk. There can be no assurance that such indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against potential claims relating to such contract manufacturing services or protect us from being named in a possible lawsuit. Although Avid has procured insurance coverage, there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims to which we might be exposed. A partially successful or completely uninsured claim against Avid would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operations. If We Are Unable To Obtain, Protect And Enforce Our Patent Rights, We May Be Unable To Effectively Protect Or Exploit Our Proprietary Technology, Inventions And Improvements. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, protect and enforce commercially valuable patents. We try to protect our proprietary positions by filing United States and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to developing our business. However, if we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection for our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements, our competitors could develop and commercialize products that would otherwise infringe upon our patents. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical fields are still evolving. Accordingly, the degree of future protection for our patent rights is uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents include the following: · the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; · the claims of any patents that issue may not provide meaningful protection; · we may be unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; · the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; · other parties may challenge patents licensed or issued to us; · disputes may arise regarding the invention and corresponding ownership rights in inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us, our licensors, corporate partners and other scientific collaborators; and · other parties may design around our patented technologies. 26 We May Become Involved In Lawsuits To Protect Or Enforce Our Patents That Would Be Expensive And Time Consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. In addition, we may become subject to interference or opposition proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority and patentability of inventions. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings, would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our pending patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. This disclosure could have an material adverse effect on our business and our financial results. We May Not Be Able To Compete With Our Competitors In The Biotechnology Industry Because Many Of Them Have Greater Resources Than We Do And They Are Further Along In Their Development Efforts. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Many of the drugs that we are attempting to discover or develop will be competing with existing therapies. In addition, we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in research and development of antibody-based products that have commenced clinical trials with, or have successfully commercialized, antibody products. Some or all of these companies may have greater financial resources, larger technical staffs, and larger research budgets than we have, as well as greater experience in developing products and running clinical trials. We expect to continue to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. In addition, there may be other companies which are currently developing competitive technologies and products or which may in the future develop technologies and products that are comparable or superior to our technologies and products. We are conducting the Cotara® dose confirmation and dosimetry clinical trial for the treatment of recurrent brain cancer as a stand-alone study directly with several New Approaches to Brain Tumor Therapy (“NABTT”) sponsored university clinical sites together with additional centers in the U.S. such as the Medical Center of South Carolina. We also recently opened enrollment in a Phase II study in India using Cotara® to treat up to 40 patients for the treatment of recurrent brain cancer. Existing treatments for brain cancer include the Gliadel® Wafer (polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant) from MGI Pharma, Inc. and Temodar® (temozolomide) from Schering-Plough Corporation. Gliadel® is inserted in the tumor cavity following surgery and releases a chemotherapeutic agent over time. Temodar® is administered orally to patients with brain cancer. Because Cotara® targets brain tumors from the inside out, it is a novel treatment dissimilar from other drugs in development for this disease. Some products in development may compete with Cotara® should they become approved for marketing. These products include, but are not limited to CDX-110, a peptide vaccine under development by Celldex. Merck KGaA is evaluating cilengitide in newly diagnosed GBM patients. AstraZeneca is developing cediranib for patients with recurrent GBM. In addition, oncology products marketed for other indications such as Gleevec® (Novartis), Tarceva® (Genentech/OSI), Avastin® (Genentech) and Nexavar® (Bayer), are being tested in clinical trials for the treatment of brain cancer. Bavituximab for the treatment of advanced solid cancers is currently in a Phase I clinical trial in the U.S. and we recently completed a Phase Ib clinical trial in India for the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors in combination with chemotherapy. There are a number of possible competitors with approved or developmental targeted agents used in combination with standard chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer, including but not limited to, Avastin® by Genentech, Inc., Gleevec® by Novartis, Tarceva® by OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Genentech, Inc., Erbitux® by ImClone Systems Incorporated and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Rituxan® and Herceptin® by Biogen Idec Inc. and Genentech, Inc., and Vectibix™ by Amgen. There are a significant number of companies developing cancer therapeutics using a variety of targeted and non-targeted approaches. A direct comparison of these potential competitors will not be possible until bavituximab advances to later-stage clinical trials. 27 In addition, we have completed Phase Ia single-dose and Phase Ib multiple dose clinical trials evaluating bavituximab for the treatment of HCV. Bavituximab is a first-in-class approach for the treatment of HCV. We are aware of no other products in development targeting phosphatidylserine as a potential therapy for HCV. There are a number of companies that have products approved and on the market for the treatment of HCV, including but not limited to: Peg-Intron® (pegylated interferon-alpha-2b), Rebetol® (ribavirin), and Intron-A (interferon-alpha-2a), which are marketed by Schering-Plough Corporation, and Pegasys® (pegylated interferon-alpha-2a), Copegus® (ribavirin USP) and Roferon-A® (interferon-alpha-2a), which are marketed by Roche Pharmaceuticals, and Infergen® (interferon alfacon-1) now marketed by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International. First line treatment for HCV has changed little since alpha interferon was first introduced in 1991. The current standard of care for HCV includes a combination of an alpha interferon (pegylated or non-pegylated) with ribavirin. This combination therapy is generally associated with considerable toxicity including flu-like symptoms, hematologic changes and central nervous system side effects including depression. It is not uncommon for patients to discontinue alpha interferon therapy because they are unable to tolerate the side effects of the treatment. Future treatments for HCV are likely to include a combination of these existing products used as adjuncts with products now in development. Later-stage developmental treatments include improvements to existing therapies, such as Albuferon™ (albumin interferon) from Human Genome Sciences, Inc. and Viramidine™ (taribavirin), a prodrug analog of ribavirin being developed by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International. Other developmental approaches include, but are not limited to, protease inhibitors such as telaprevir from Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, and SCH7 from Schering-Plough Corporation, and valopicitabine, a polymerase inhibitor by Idenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. New And Potential New Accounting Pronouncements May Impact Our Future Financial Position And Results Of Operations There may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. For example, in December 2004, the FASB issued an amendment to SFAS No. 123, Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS No. 123R”), which we adopted May 1, 2006, as discussed in Note 3, “Stock-Based Compensation,” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 123R eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB No. 25”), and instead requires companies to recognize compensation expense using a fair-value based method for costs related to share-based payments including stock options. Our adoption of SFAS No. 123R is expected to materially impact our financial position and results of operations for future periods. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007, our loss from operations included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $964,000 related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Also, a change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business, which may also adversely affect our stock price. If We Lose Qualified Management And Scientific Personnel Or Are Unable To Attract And Retain Such Personnel, We May Be Unable To Successfully Develop Our Products Or We May Be Significantly Delayed In Developing Our Products. Our success is dependent, in part, upon a limited number of key executive officers, each of whom is an at-will employee, and also upon our scientific researchers. For example, because of his extensive understanding of our technologies and product development programs, the loss of Mr. Steven W. King, our President and Chief Executive Officer, would adversely affect our development efforts and clinical trial programs during the six to twelve month period that we estimate it would take to find and train a qualified replacement. We also believe that our future success will depend largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled research and development and technical personnel. We face intense competition in our recruiting activities, including competition from larger companies with greater resources. We do not know if we will be successful in attracting or retaining skilled personnel. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to attract and retain other qualified employees could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. 28 Our Governance Documents And State Law Provide Certain Anti-Takeover Measures Which Will Discourage A Third Party From Seeking To Acquire Us Unless Approved By the Board of Directors. We adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” on March 16, 2006. The purpose of the shareholder rights plan is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to our stockholders as determined by our Board of Directors. Under the plan, the acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock by any person or group, unless approved by our board of directors, will trigger the right of our stockholders (other than the acquiror of 15% or more of our common stock) to acquire additional shares of our common stock, and, in certain cases, the stock of the potential acquiror, at a 50% discount to market price, thus significantly increasing the acquisition cost to a potential acquiror. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain additional anti-takeover protective devices. For example, · no stockholder action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote; solicitations by consent are thus prohibited; · special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our Board of Directors; and · our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and issue shares, of preferred stock. An issuance of preferred stock with dividend and liquidation rights senior to the common stock and convertible into a large number of shares of common stock could prevent a potential acquiror from gaining effective economic or voting control. Further, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. Although we believe these provisions and our rights plan collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 