Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Peregrine, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our potential product sales, potential royalties, contract manufacturing revenues, expenses, net income(loss) and earnings(loss) per common share. Risks Related to Our Business If we cannot obtain additional funding, our product development and commercialization efforts may be reduced or discontinued and we may not be able to continue operations or timely complete our phase iii SUNRISE trial. At April 30, 2014, we had $77,490,000 in cash and cash equivalents. We have expended substantial funds on the research and development of our product candidates, and funding the operations of Avid. As a result, we have historically experienced negative cash flows from operations since our inception and we expect negative cash flows from operations to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, unless and until we are able to generate sufficient revenues from Avid’s contract manufacturing services and/or from the sale and/or licensing of our product candidates under development, we expect such negative cash flows to continue in the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue to fund our clinical trials and development efforts is highly dependent on the amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand combined with our ability to raise additional capital to support our future operations through one or more methods, including but not limited to, raising additional capital in the equity markets, securing debt financing, licensing or partnering our product candidates in development, or generating additional revenue from Avid. Historically, we have funded a significant portion of our operations through the issuance of equity. During fiscal year 2014, we raised $55,424,000 in aggregate gross proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock under an At Market Sales Issuance Agreement and raised an additional $19,375,000 in aggregate gross proceeds in connection with a firm commitment underwritten public offering of our newly designated 10.50% Series E Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series E Preferred Stock”) (as described in Note 6 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements). Subsequent to April 30, 2014 and through July 14, 2014, we raised an additional $10,000,000 in aggregate gross proceeds from the sale of Series E Preferred Stock under a separate At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (as described in Note 13 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements). With these additional proceeds raised, we currently estimate that we have sufficient cash resources to meet our anticipated cash needs to fund our operations through at least the next twelve months based on our current projections, which include projected costs associated with our Phase III SUNRISE trial, projected cash outflows for the payment of dividends on our Series E Preferred Stock, projected cash inflows under signed contracts with existing customers of Avid and assuming we raise no additional capital from the capital markets or other potential sources. Our ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets to fund our clinical trials and development efforts in future years is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the market demand for our common stock and/or Series E Preferred Stock. The market demand or liquidity of our common stock and/or Series E Preferred Stock is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, negative economic conditions, adverse market conditions, adverse clinical trial results and significant delays in one or more clinical trials. If our ability to access the capital markets becomes severely restricted, it could have a negative impact on our business plans, including our clinical trial programs and other research and development activities. In addition, even if we are able to raise additional capital, it may not be at a price or on terms that are favorable to us. 19 While we will continue to explore these potential opportunities, we may not be successful in (i) raising additional capital in the equity markets, (ii) securing debt financing, (iii) licensing or partnering our products in development, or (iv) generating additional revenue from Avid, to complete the research, development, and clinical testing of our product candidates. We have had significant losses and we anticipate future losses. We have incurred net losses in most fiscal years since we began operations in 1981. The following table represents net losses incurred for each of the past three fiscal years: Net Loss Fiscal Year 2014 $ 35,362,000 Fiscal Year 2013 $ 29,780,000 Fiscal Year 2012 $ 42,119,000 As of April 30, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $403,266,000. While we expect to continue to generate revenue from Avid’s contract manufacturing services, in order to achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, either alone or with others, and following any such approval, must also manufacture, introduce, market and sell our product candidates. The costs associated with clinical trials and product manufacturing is very expensive and the time frame necessary to achieve market success for our product candidates is long and uncertain. Furthermore, the costs associated with advanced stage clinical trials can significantly increase due, in part, to expanded patient populations and the cost to prepare for potential commercialization. In addition, we initiated our Phase III SUNRISE trial in December 2013, and therefore expect our net loss for fiscal year 2015 to exceed our net loss for fiscal year 2014. We do not expect to generate product or royalty revenues for at least the next two years, and we may never generate product and/or royalty revenues sufficient to become profitable or to sustain profitability. Successful development of our product candidates is uncertain. To date, no revenues have been generated from the commercial sale of our product candidates and our product candidates may not generate revenues in the future. Our development of current and future product candidates is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include: ·delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; ·unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; ·failure in clinical trials or failure to receive regulatory approvals; ·emergence of superior or equivalent products; ·inability to manufacture on our own, or through others, product candidates on a commercial scale; ·inability to market products due to third party proprietary rights; and ·failure to achieve market acceptance. Because of these risks, our research and development efforts or those of our partners may not result in any commercially viable products. If significant portions of these development efforts are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals are not obtained, or any approved products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. 20 Because we have not begun the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, our revenue and profit potential is unproven and our operating history makes it difficult for an investor to evaluate our business and prospects. Our technology may not result in any meaningful benefits to our current or potential partners. No revenues have been generated from the commercial sale of our product candidates, and our products may not generate revenues in the future. Our business and prospects should be considered in light of the heightened risks and unexpected expenses and problems we may face as a company in an early stage of product development in an extremely competitive and rapidly evolving industry. We are primarily focusing our activities and resources on the development of bavituximab and depend on its success. We are focusing most of our near-term research and development activities and resources on bavituximab, and we believe a significant portion of the value of our company relates to our ability to develop this drug candidate. The development of bavituximab is subject to many risks, including the risks discussed in other risk factors. If the results of clinical trials of bavituximab, including our Phase III SUNRISE trial, the regulatory decisions affecting bavituximab, the anticipated or actual timing and plan for commercializing bavituximab, or, ultimately, the market acceptance of bavituximab do not meet our, your, analysts or others’ expectations, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our product development efforts may not be successful. Our product candidates have not received regulatory approval and are in research, preclinical and various clinical stages of development. If the results from any of the clinical trials are not positive, those results may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or obtain regulatory approval to conduct additional clinical trials, which will affect our ability to continue full-scale research and development for our antibody technologies. In addition, our product candidates may take longer than anticipated to progress through clinical trials, or patient enrollment in the clinical trials may be delayed or prolonged significantly, thus delaying the clinical trials. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to the clinical sites, competing studies of other investigational products, and the inclusion and exclusion eligibility criteria for the study. Clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we or our potential partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our potential partners will have to conduct extensive preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The length of time may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting preclinical or clinical trials may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. Moreover, we may continue to be affected by delays associated with the preclinical testing and clinical trials of certain product candidates conducted by our partners over which we have no control. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, for example: ·obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; ·reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations (“CROs”) and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; ·slower than expected rates of patient recruitment due to narrow screening requirements; ·the inability of patients to meet FDA or other regulatory authorities imposed protocol requirements; ·the inability to retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to various clinical or personal reasons, or who are lost to further follow-up; ·the inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, for use in clinical trials; ·shortages of chemotherapy or other drugs used in clinical trials in combination with bavituximab; 21 ·the need or desire to modify our manufacturing processes; ·the inability to adequately observe patients after treatment; ·changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials; ·the lack of effectiveness during the clinical trials; ·unforeseen safety issues; ·delays, suspension, or termination of the clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; ·insufficient financial resources; and ·government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of the trials. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or initial clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates employing our technology. Clinical trials that we conduct or that third parties conduct on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. We expect to commence new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for our desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate as well as other product candidates. Any change in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. If those parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all. In the course of our discovery, preclinical testing and clinical trials, we rely on third parties, including universities, investigators and CROs, to perform critical services for us. For example, we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. CROs and investigators are responsible for many aspects of the trials, including finding and enrolling patients for testing and administering the trials. Certain of our clinical trials are blind or double-blind, including our Phase III SUNRISE trial. If the trial is blind, management does not have access to information regarding the trial’s administration and progress. We therefore must rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, but their failure to comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements, or to perform their services in a timely and acceptable manner, may compromise our clinical trials in particular or our business in general. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices (“GCPs) for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. These third parties may not be available when we need them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner. Any failings by these third parties may compromise our clinical trials in particular or our business in general. Similarly, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. These independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. For example, if such third parties fail to perform their obligations in compliance with our clinical trial protocols, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements or may need to be repeated. As a result of our dependence on third parties, we may face delays or failures outside of our direct control, as evidenced by the major discrepancies in treatment group coding by an independent third-party vendor responsible for distribution of blinded investigational product used in our bavituximab Phase II NSCLC trial. These risks also apply to the development activities of our collaborators, and we do not control our collaborators’ research and development, clinical trials or regulatory activities. We do not expect any drugs resulting from our collaborators’ research and development efforts to be commercially available for many years, if ever. 22 In addition, we have prepaid research and development expenses to third parties that have been deferred and capitalized as pre-payments to secure the receipt of future preclinical and clinical research and development services. These pre-payments are recognized as an expense in the period that the services are performed. We assess our prepaid research and development expenses for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the prepaid expense may not be recoverable or provide a future economic benefit, including the risk of third party nonperformance. If there are indicators that the third parties are unable to perform the research and development services, we may be required to take an impairment charge. We have limited experience as a company conducting large-scale clinical trials and in other areas required for the successful commercialization and marketing of our product candidates. Results from early stage clinical trials of bavituximab and Cotara, our novel brain cancer therapy, may not be indicative of successful outcomes in later stage trials. Negative or limited results from any current or future clinical trial could delay or prevent further development of our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business. We have limited experience as a company in conducting large-scale, late-stage clinical trials, and our experience with early-stage clinical trials with small numbers of patients is limited. In part because of this limited experience, we cannot be certain that planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time, if at all. Large-scale trials require significant additional financial and management resources, and reliance on third-party clinical investigators, CROs or consultants. Relying on third-party clinical investigators or CROs may force us to encounter delays that are outside of our control. Any such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also do not currently have marketing, sales and distribution capabilities for our product candidates. Developing an internal sales and distribution capability would be an expensive and time-consuming process. We may enter into agreements with third parties that would be responsible for marketing and distribution. However, these third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our product candidates. The inability to commercialize and market our product candidates could materially affect our business. Failure to recruit, enroll and retain patients for clinical trials may cause the development of our product candidates to be delayed or development costs to increase substantially. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, delays in patient enrollment in our clinical trials for a variety of reasons. The timely completion of clinical trials in accordance with their protocols depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients who remain in the study until its conclusion. The enrollment of subjects depends on many factors, including: ·the patient eligibility criteria defined in the protocol; ·the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial’s primary endpoints; ·the proximity of patients to study sites; ·the design of the trial; ·our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience; ·our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; ·the risk that patients enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion; and ·competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other competitive treatments. 23 Our clinical trials compete with other clinical trials for product candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as our product candidates, and this competition reduces the number and types of subjects available to us, because some patients who might have opted to enroll in our trials opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by one of our competitors. Since the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we conduct some of our clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which reduces the number of subjects who are available for our clinical trials in such clinical trial site. Delays in patient enrollment in the future as a result of these and other factors may result in increased costs or may affect the timing or outcome of our clinical trials, which could prevent us from completing these trials and adversely affect our ability to advance the development of our product candidates. Patient enrollment and patient care provided at international clinical sites may be delayed or otherwise adversely impacted by social, political and economic factors affecting the particular foreign country. In the past, we have conducted, and are presently conducting in connection with our Phase III SUNRISE trial, clinical trials globally including clinical sites in Western and Eastern Europe, Asia-Pacific and other regions and/or countries. Our ability to successfully initiate, enroll and complete a clinical trial in any foreign country is subject to numerous risks unique to conducting business in foreign countries, including: ·difficulty in establishing or managing relationships with CROs and physicians; ·different standards for the conduct of clinical trials and/or health care reimbursement; ·our inability to locate qualified local consultants, physicians, and partners; ·the potential burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, medical standards and regulatory requirements, including the regulation of pharmaceutical products and treatment; and ·general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability, and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. Because we are conducting our Phase III SUNRISE trial in several foreign counties, any disruption to our international clinical trial sites could significantly delay or jeopardize our product development efforts. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. A number of new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from our preclinical studies and Phase I and Phase II clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. The Phase I studies we have completed to date have been designed to primarily assess safety in a small number of patients. In addition, the results we have obtained in the Phase II trials may not predict results for any future studies and may not predict future therapeutic benefit of our drug candidates. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials, such as our Phase III SUNRISE trial, that bavituximab is safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approval for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. 24 If we successfully develop products but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be profitable. Even if the FDA or other regulatory authorities approve bavituximab or any future product candidate for commercial sale, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: ·our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; ·changes in the standard of care for the targeted indication; ·relative convenience and ease of administration; ·the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; ·availability, cost and potential advantages of alternative treatments; ·pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control; ·effectiveness of our or our partners’ sales and marketing strategy; ·the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authority in other countries; and ·our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. In addition, if bavituximab or any future product candidate that we discover and develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is more beneficial than the current standard of care or otherwise provide patient benefit, that product likely will not be accepted favorably by the market. If any products we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, then we may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost effective or render our products obsolete. If we do not establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development plans. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. We either own or we in-licensed all rights to our two lead drug candidates, bavituximab and Cotara, and are fully responsible for the associated development costs. Our strategy continues to include the potential of selectively collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of some of our product candidates and research programs. We may enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future, especially for target indications in which the potential collaborator has particular therapeutic expertise or that involve a large, primary care market that must be served by large sales and marketing organizations or for markets outside of North America. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully enter into a collaboration, our partner may not perform its contractual obligations or may terminate the agreement. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. 25 Healthcare reform measures and other statutory or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our business. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “ACA”), enacted in March 2010, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA is expected to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare D program. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to extensive regulation, and from time to time legislative bodies and governmental agencies consider changes to such regulations that could have significant impact on industry participants. For example, in light of certain highly-publicized safety issues regarding certain drugs that had received marketing approval, the U.S. Congress has considered various proposals regarding drug safety, including some which would require additional safety studies and monitoring and could make drug development more costly. Additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to safety or other aspects of drug development may be enacted in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved drugs is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market bavituximab and may decrease our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs. The commercial success of our product candidates, including bavituximab, in both domestic and international markets will depend in part on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, including government payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and managed care organizations. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our product candidates. These payors may conclude that our product candidates are less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than existing or later introduced products, and third-party payors may not approve our product candidates for coverage and reimbursement or may cease providing coverage and reimbursement for these product candidates. Because each country has one or more payment systems, obtaining reimbursement in the United States and internationally may take significant time and cause us to spend significant resources. The failure to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement for our product candidates or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or deny reimbursement for our product candidates may significantly reduce any future product revenue. In the United States and in other countries, there have been and we expect there will continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could significantly affect our business. International, federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, some of which are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform, as evidenced by the ACA. Such government-adopted reform measures may adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products and services in the United States or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third-party payors. In addition, in some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The continuing efforts of U.S. and other governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce healthcare costs may adversely affect our ability to set satisfactory prices for our products, to generate revenues, and to achieve and maintain profitability. 26 In some countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our product candidates is unavailable or limited in scope or amount in a particular country, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability of our products in such country. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing bavituximab abroad. We intend to market bavituximab in international markets either directly or through a potential future collaboration partner, if any. In order to market bavituximab in the European Union, Canada, Japan and many other foreign jurisdictions, we or a potential future collaboration partner must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have, and potential future collaboration partners may have, had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing at significant cost. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval processes may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in some foreign countries where we may not have conducted clinical studies (or treated a sufficient number of patients), the applicable foreign regulatory agency may require us to conduct additional studies in its country to establish the safety of our drug in that patient population, which could delay the approval process in that foreign country. We or a potential future collaboration partner may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We or a potential future collaboration partner may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize bavituximab or any other future products in any market. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market bavituximab in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions either directly or through a potential future collaboration partner. If we or a potential future collaboration partner obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we or a potential future collaboration partner will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to bavituximab. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we or a potential future collaboration partner may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of bavituximab to other available therapies. If reimbursement of bavituximab is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. If we cannot license or sell Cotara, it may be delayed or never further developed in the U.S. We have completed a single-arm Phase II study with Cotara for the treatment of brain cancer. In our most recent Phase II open-label, multicenter trial, 41 patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (“GBM” or brain cancer) at first relapse were enrolled and received a single-treatment with Cotara. Median overall survival for patients treated with Cotara was 9.3 months. Based on these data and data from earlier clinical studies, in December 2012 we reached an agreement with the FDA on the design of a single pivotal trial to potentially support product registration for Cotara. With this clear clinical path forward, since December 2012 we have been pursuing a licensing or funding partner to further advance the program. In the event we are not able to secure a partnership for the program in the U.S., we may not be able to advance the project past its current stage of development. Because there are a limited number of companies, that have the financial resources, the internal infrastructure, the technical capability and the marketing infrastructure to develop and market a radiopharmaceutical-based oncology drug, we may not secure a suitable partner for Cotara. Furthermore, if we do secure a suitable licensing partner for the program, the financial terms that they propose may not be acceptable to us. 27 Obtaining Fast Track designation from the FDA for our product candidate bavituximab does not guarantee faster approval. We received Fast Track designation for our product candidate bavituximab in combination with docetaxel in patients with previously-treated non-sqamous NSCLC. Fast Track designation is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of new drugs intended to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions and that have the potential to address an unmet medical need for such disease or condition. Fast Track designation applies to the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Once a Fast Track designation is obtained, the FDA may consider for review on a rolling basis sections of the NDA before the complete application is submitted if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the submission of the sections of the NDA and the applicant pays applicable user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA. However, the time period specified in the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which governs the time period goals the FDA has committed to reviewing an application, does not begin until the complete application is accepted for filing. Although we received Fast Track designation for bavituximab, the FDA may later decide that bavituximab no longer meets the conditions for qualification. In addition, Fast Track designation may not provide us with a material commercial advantage. Our manufacturing facilities may not continue to meet regulatory requirements and have limited capacity. Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured comply with cGMP requirements. To be successful, our therapeutic products must be manufactured for development and, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. Currently, we manufacture all preclinical and clinical material through Avid, our wholly-owned subsidiary. While we believe our current facilities are adequate for the manufacturing of product candidates for clinical trials, our facilities may not be adequate to produce sufficient quantities required for commercialization. In order to prepare for commercialization, if it is approved for sale, we may need to manufacture bavituximab in larger quantities beyond our current capacity. We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for bavituximab, whether at Avid or in collaboration with third-party manufacturers, in a timely or cost-effective manner or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing is a lengthy process and may require additional validation studies, which are costly and which the FDA must review and approve. In addition, quality issues may arise during those scale-up activities because of the inherent properties of monoclonal antibodies, like bavituximab. If we are unable to successfully scale-up manufacture of bavituximab in sufficient quality and quantity, whether at Avid or a third-party manufacturer, the development of bavituximab and its regulatory approval or commercial launch may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, which could significantly harm our business. If we engage a third-party manufacturer, we would need to transfer our technology to that third-party manufacturer and gain FDA approval, potentially causing delays in product delivery. In addition, if we use a third-party manufacturer, it may not perform as agreed or may terminate its agreement with us. 28 We may also encounter problems with the following: ·production yields; ·possible facility contamination; ·quality control and quality assurance programs; ·shortages of qualified personnel; ·compliance with FDA or other regulatory authorities regulations, including the demonstration of purity and potency; ·changes in FDA or other regulatory authorities requirements; ·production costs; and/or ·development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. In addition, we or any third-party manufacturer will be required to register the manufacturing facilities with the FDA and other regulatory authorities, provided it had not already registered. The facilities will be subject to inspections confirming compliance with cGMP or other regulations. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug product or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our clinical trials, research and development activities and manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials or chemicals. As a result of any such contamination or injury, we may incur liability or local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. We may have significant product liability exposure because we maintain only limited product liability insurance. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the administration of one of our product candidates during a clinical trial adversely affects or causes the death of a patient. Although we maintain product liability insurance for clinical studies in the amount of $5,000,000 per occurrence or $5,000,000 in the aggregate on a claims-made basis, as well as various country specific coverages where required for clinical sites located in foreign countries, our coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, or a product recall, could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the contract manufacturing services that we offer through Avid expose us to an inherent risk of liability as the antibodies or other substances manufactured by Avid, at the request and to the specifications of our customers, could possibly cause adverse effects or have product defects. We obtain agreements from our customers indemnifying and defending us from any potential liability arising from such risk. However, these indemnification agreements may not adequately protect us against potential claims relating to such contract manufacturing services or protect us from being named in a possible lawsuit. Although Avid has procured insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain our existing coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential claims to which we might be exposed. A partially successful or completely uninsured claim against Avid would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operations. 29 Our research and development activities rely on technology licensed from third parties, and termination of any of those licenses would result in loss of significant rights to develop and market our products, which would impair our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have been granted rights to a variety of technologies necessary for our research and development activities from third parties through license agreements. Each license generally may be terminated by the licensor if we fail to perform our obligations under the agreement, including obligations to develop the product candidates or technologies under license. If terminated, we would lose the right to develop the product candidates, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The license agreements also generally require us to meet specified milestones or show reasonable diligence in development of the technology. If disputes arise over the definition of these requirements or whether we have satisfied the requirements in a timely manner, or if any other obligations in the license agreements are disputed by the other party, the other party could terminate the agreement, and we could lose our rights to develop the licensed technology. In addition, if new technology is developed from these licenses, we may be required to negotiate certain key financial and other terms, such as milestone and royalty payments, for the licensing of this future technology with the third party licensors, and it might not be possible to obtain any such license on terms that are satisfactory to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain, protect and enforce our patent rights, we may be unable to effectively protect or exploit our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, protect and enforce commercially valuable patents. We try to protect our proprietary positions by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to developing our business. However, if we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection for our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements, our competitors could develop and commercialize products that would otherwise infringe upon our patents. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical fields are still evolving. Accordingly, the degree of future protection for our patent rights is uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents include the following: ·the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; ·the claims of any patents that issue may not provide meaningful protection; ·we may be unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; ·the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; ·other parties may challenge patents licensed or issued to us; ·disputes may arise regarding the invention and corresponding ownership rights in inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us, our licensors, corporate partners and other scientific collaborators; and ·other parties may design around our patented technologies. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely impacted. 30 The patent protection for our product candidates may expire before we are able to maximize their commercial value, which may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue. The patents for our product candidates have varying expiration dates and, if these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and we may not be able to recover our development costs or market any of our approved products profitably. For example, one of our U.S. patents claims compounds encompassing bavituximab and is due to expire in 2024, and two of our other U.S. patents claim treatment methods encompassing bavituximab and are due to expire in 2025. In some of the larger potential market territories, such as the United States and Europe, patent term extension or restoration may be available to compensate for time taken during aspects of the product’s development and regulatory review. However, such an extension may not be granted, or if granted, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded during any extension period may not be sufficient. In addition, even though some regulatory authorities may provide some other exclusivity for a product under their own laws and regulations, we may not be able to qualify the product or obtain the exclusive time period. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension/restoration or some other exclusivity, we could be subject to increased competition and our opportunity to establish or maintain product revenue could be substantially reduced or eliminated. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient time to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of our U.S. and non-U.S. patents. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that would be expensive, time consuming and may lead to disclosure of our confidential information. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. In addition, we may become subject to interference or opposition proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority and patentability of inventions. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference or opposition proceedings and other legal and administrative proceedings, would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our pending patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. This disclosure could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial results. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we have limited insurance or are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our ability to obtain raw materials for the manufacture of our clinical supplies and for our third party customers’ products, for which we act as a contract manufacturer, could be disrupted, if the operations of these suppliers is affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. Our corporate headquarters and manufacturing facility is located in California near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. 31 We may not be able to compete with our competitors in the biotechnology industry because many of them have greater resources than we do and they are further along in their development efforts. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intensely competitive and any product candidate developed by us would compete with existing drugs and therapies. There are many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities, government agencies and research organizations that compete with us in developing various approaches to cancer therapy. In addition, we are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in research and development of immunotherapy-based products that have commenced clinical trials with, or have successfully commercialized, these products. Some or all of these companies may have greater financial resources, larger technical staffs and larger research budgets than we have, as well as greater experience in developing products and running clinical trials. We expect to continue to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. In addition, there may be other companies which are currently developing competitive technologies and products or which may in the future develop technologies and products that are comparable or superior to our technologies and products. Our lead immunotherapy product bavituximab is currently in a Phase III clinical trial for the treatment second-line NSCLC. Most common drugs currently used in the treatment of second-line NSCLC include docetaxel, a chemotherapeutic agent from Sanofi-Aventis, erlotinib, a targeted small molecule from Genentech, Inc., a member of the Roche Group and pemetrexed, a chemotherapeutic agent from Eli Lilly & Company. In addition, although we are not aware of any other PS-targeting immunotherapies in clinical development, there are a number of investigational products in development for the treatment of second-line NSCLC, including but not limited to Imprime PGG by Biothera, pembrolizumab by Merck & Co., MEDI-4736 by AstraZeneca plc, ramucirumab by Eli Lilly & Company, RG7446 by Roche, and nivolumab by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Our contract manufacturing business is exposed to risks resulting from its small customer base. A significant portion of Avid’s revenues has historically been derived from a small number of customers. These customers typically do not enter into long-term contracts because their need for drug supply depends on a variety of factors, including the drug’s stage of development, their financial resources, and, with respect to commercial drugs, demand for the drug in the market. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if revenue from any one of our primary customers is significantly reduced or eliminated. If we lose qualified management and scientific personnel or are unable to attract and retain such personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop our products or we may be significantly delayed in developing our products. Our success is dependent, in part, upon a limited number of key executive officers, each of whom is an at-will employee, and upon our scientific researchers. For example, because of his extensive understanding of our technologies and product development programs, the loss of Mr. Steven W. King, our President and Chief Executive Officer, would adversely affect our development efforts and clinical trial programs during the six to twelve month period that we estimate it would take to find a qualified replacement. We also believe that our future success will depend largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled research and development and technical personnel. We face intense competition in our recruiting activities, including competition from larger companies with greater resources. We do not know if we will be successful in attracting or retaining skilled personnel. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to attract and retain other qualified employees could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. 32 We have federal and state net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards which, if we were to become profitable, could be used to offset/defer federal and state income taxes. Our ability to use such carry forwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations related to changes in ownership of our stock. As of April 30, 2014, we had federal and state NOL carryforwards of approximately $295 million and $223 million, respectively, expiring from 2015 to 2034. These NOL carryforwards could potentially be used to offset certain future federal and state income tax liabilities. However, utilization of NOL carry forwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as similar state provisions due to ownership changes that have occurred previously or that could occur in the future. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders or public groups in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2013, we performed a detailed analysis of our NOL carryforwards and it was determined that no change in ownership had occurred through April 30, 2013. However, no Section 382 analysis has been performed subsequent to April 30, 2013, and therefore, our NOL carryforwards may be subject to limitation based on events occurring during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2014, including any effect of our Series E Preferred Stock offering. Any limitation may result in expiration of a portion of the carryforwards before utilization. If we were not able to utilize our carryforwards, we would be required to use our cash resources to pay taxes that would otherwise have been offset, thereby reducing our liquidity. Our governance documents and state law provide certain anti-takeover measures which will discourage a third party from seeking to acquire us unless approved by the Board of Directors. We adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” on March 16, 2006. The purpose of the shareholder rights plan is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to our stockholders as determined by our board of directors. Under the plan, the acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock by any person or group, unless approved by our board of directors, will trigger the right of our stockholders (other than the acquirer of 15% or more of our common stock) to acquire additional shares of our common stock, and, in certain cases, the stock of the potential acquirer, at a 50% discount to market price, thus significantly increasing the acquisition cost to a potential acquirer. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain additional anti-takeover protective devices. For example, ·no stockholder action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote; solicitations by consent are thus prohibited; ·special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors; and ·our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and issue shares, of preferred stock. An issuance of preferred stock with dividend and liquidation rights senior to the common stock and convertible into a large number of shares of common stock could prevent a potential acquirer from gaining effective economic or voting control. Further, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. Although we believe these provisions and our rights plan collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. 33 We and certain of our current and former executive officers and one consultant have been named as defendants in litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. Beginning in September 2012, several lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our executive officers, consultants and directors on behalf of certain purchasers of our common stock. The lawsuits in general include allegations that we and certain of our executive officer, consultants and directors violated federal securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements regarding the interim results of our bavituximab Phase II second-line NSCLC trial, thereby artificially inflating the price of our common stock. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified monetary damages and other relief. We may not be successful in defending these lawsuits. Also, our insurance coverage may be insufficient, our assets may be insufficient to cover any amounts that exceed our insurance coverage, and we may have to pay damage awards or otherwise may enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such claims. A settlement of the lawsuit could involve the issuance of common stock or other equity, which may dilute your ownership interest. Any payments or settlement arrangements could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition or your ownership interest. Even if lead plaintiff’s claims are not successful, this litigation could result in substantial costs and significantly and adversely impact our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or partnering efforts. In addition, such consolidated lawsuit may make it more difficult to finance our operations, obtain certain types of insurance (including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance), and attract and retain qualified executive officers, other employees and directors. 34 Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The sale of substantial shares of our common stock may depress our stock price. As of April 30, 2014, there were 178,871,164 shares of our common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are eligible for trading in the public market, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. The market price of our common stock may decline if our common stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur. In addition, our common stock outstanding as of April 30, 2014 excludes the following common shares reserved for future issuance: ·25,477,483 common shares reserved for issuance under outstanding option grants and available for issuance under our stock incentive plans; ·2,940,509 common shares reserved for and available for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan; ·273,280 common shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants; and ·22,475,000 common shares issuable upon conversion of our outstanding Series E Preferred Stock Of the total options and warrants outstanding as of April 30, 2014, 12,752,145 would be considered dilutive to stockholders because we would receive an amount per share, which is less than the market price of our common stock at April 30, 2014. In addition, we will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations, including our Phase III SUNRISE trial. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the market price of our securities may decline and our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. Our highly volatile stock price may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. The market price of our common stock and the market prices of securities of companies in the biotechnology sector have generally been highly volatile and are likely to continue to be highly volatile. For instance, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $0.39 to $5.50 per share over the last three fiscal years ended April 30, 2014. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be significantly impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: ·the success or failure of our internal drug development efforts; ·positive or negative data reported on programs in clinical trials we or our investigators are conducting; ·announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; ·uncertainties about our ability to continue to fund our operations beyond the next twelve months, including our Phase III SUNRISE trial; ·significant changes in our financial results or that of our competitors, including our ability to continue as a going concern; ·the offering and sale of shares of our common stock, either sold at market prices or at a discount under an equity transaction; ·significant changes in our capital structure; ·published reports by securities analysts; 35 ·announcements of partnering transactions, licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, and any other transaction that involves the development, sale or use of our technologies or competitive technologies; ·developments and/or disputes concerning our patent or other proprietary rights; ·regulatory developments, including possible delays, and product safety concerns; ·outcomes of significant litigation, disputes and other legal or regulatory proceedings; ·general stock trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry sectors; ·public concerns as to the safety and effectiveness of our products; ·economic trends and other external factors, including but not limited to, interest rate fluctuations, economic recession, inflation, foreign market trends, national crisis, and disasters; and ·healthcare reimbursement reform and cost-containment measures implemented by government agencies. These and other external factors have caused and may continue to cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock, and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of NASDAQ, our common stock may be delisted, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC has requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on NASDAQ. In particular, NASDAQ rules require us to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share of our common stock. If the closing bid price of our common stock were to fall below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days or we do not meet other listing requirements, we would fail to be in compliance with NASDAQ's listing standards. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the minimum bid price requirement, or any other requirement in the future. If we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC may initiate the delisting process with a notification letter. If we were to receive such a notification, we would be afforded a grace period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In order to regain compliance, shares of our common stock would need to maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. If our common stock were to be delisted, the liquidity of our common stock would be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decrease. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings, if any, for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock. additional Risks Related to the Ownership of our Series E Preferred Stock We may not be able to pay dividends on the series e preferred stock. We are incorporated in Delaware and governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law. Delaware law allows a corporation to pay dividends only out of surplus, as determined under Delaware law, or if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend was declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Under Delaware law, however, we cannot pay dividends out of net profits if, after we pay the dividend, our capital would be less than the capital represented by the outstanding stock of all classes having a preference upon the distribution of assets. In addition, payment of our dividends depends upon our financial condition and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our Series E Preferred Stock. 36 The market price of the series e preferred stock could be substantially affected by various factors. The market price of the Series E Preferred Stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including: ·prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series E Preferred Stock; ·trading prices of common and preferred equity securities issued by other biopharmaceutical companies; ·the annual yield from distributions on the Series E Preferred Stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments; ·announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; ·publicity regarding actual or potential company-sponsored clinical trial and investigator-sponsored clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; ·announcements of licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, and any other transaction that involves the development, sale or use of our technologies; ·regulatory developments and product safety concerns; ·general economic and financial market conditions; ·government action or regulation; ·significant changes in the financial condition, performance and prospects of us and our competitors; ·changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us, our competitors in our industry; ·our issuance of additional preferred equity or debt securities; and ·actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results of us and our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, holders of our Series E Preferred Stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial and rapid, in the market price of the Series E Preferred Stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 