Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. We depend on contract renewals for a large share of our revenue and our operating results could be adversely affected. We expect that a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future will continue to be derived from renewable service contracts. Substantially all contracts are renewable annually at the option of our clients, although a client generally has no minimum purchase commitment under a contract and the contracts are generally cancelable on short or no notice without penalty. To the extent that clients fail to renew or defer their renewals, we anticipate our results may be materially adversely affected. Our ability to secure renewals depends on, among other things, our ability to gather and analyze performance data in a consistent, high-quality, and timely fashion. In addition, the service needs of our clients are affected by accreditation requirements, enrollment in m anaged care plans, the level of use of satisfaction measures in healthcare organizations’ overall management and compensation programs, the size of operating budgets, clients’ operating performance, industry and economic conditions, and changes in management or ownership. As these factors are beyond our control, we cannot ensure that we will be able to maintain our renewal rates. Any material decline in renewal rates from existing levels would have an adverse effect on our revenue and a corresponding effect on our operating and net income. Our operating results may fluctuate and this may cause our stock price to decline. Our overall operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the size and timing of orders from clients, client demand for our services (which, in turn, is affected by factors such as accreditation requirements, enrollment in managed care plans, operating budgets and clients’ operating performance), the hiring and training of additional staff, expense increases, and industry and general economic conditions. Because a significant portion of our overhead is fixed in the short-term, particularly some costs associated with owning and occupying our building and full-time personnel expenses, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected in any particular period if revenue falls below our expectations. These factors, among others, make it possible that in some future period our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors which would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We operate in a highly competitive market and could experience increased price pressure and expenses as a result. The healthcare information and market research services industry is highly competitive. We have traditionally competed with healthcare organizations’ internal marketing, market research and/or quality improvement departments that create their own performance measurement tools, and with relatively small specialty research firms that provide survey-based healthcare market research and/or performance assessment. The Company’s primary competitors among such specialty firms include Press Ganey, which we believe has significantly higher annual revenue than us, and three or four other firms that we believe have less annual revenue than us. To a certain degree, we currently compete with, and anticipate that in the future we may increasingly compete with, (1) traditional market res earch firms which are significant providers of survey-based, general market research, and (2) firms which provide services or products that complement healthcare performance assessments, such as healthcare software or information systems. Although only a few of these competitors have offered specific services that compete directly with our services, many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, information gathering, and marketing resources than the Company and could decide to increase their resource commitments to our market. There are relatively few barriers to entry into the Company’s market, and we expect increased competition in our market which could adversely affect our operating results through pricing pressure, increased marketing expenditures, and market share losses, among other factors. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. 5 Because our clients are concentrated in the healthcare industry, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected by changes in regulations, a business downturn or consolidation with respect to the healthcare industry. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from clients in the healthcare industry. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations are influenced by conditions affecting this industry, including changing political, economic, competitive and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operation of healthcare providers and payers. Recently, Congressional leaders enacted a comprehensive healthcare reform plan, including provisions to control healthcare costs, improve healthcare quality and expand access to affordable health insurance. These programs could result in lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the environment in which providers and payers operate. In addition, large private purchasers of healthcare services a re placing increasing cost pressure on providers. Healthcare providers may react to these cost pressures and other uncertainties by curtailing or deferring purchases, including purchases of our services. Moreover, there has been consolidation of companies in the healthcare industry, a trend which we believe will continue to grow. Consolidation in this industry, including the potential acquisition of certain of our clients, could adversely affect aggregate client budgets for our services or could result in the termination of a client’s relationship with us. The impact of these developments on the healthcare industry is difficult to predict and could have an adverse effect on our revenue and a corresponding effect on our operating and net income. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. The new legislation makes extensive changes to the current system of healthcare insurance and benefits that will include changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment policies and other healthcare delivery reforms that could potentially impact the Company’s business. At this time, it is difficult to estimate the impact of this legislation on the Company. We rely on a limited number of key clients and a loss of one or more of these key clients will adversely affect our operating results. We rely on a limited number of key clients for a substantial portion of our revenue. The Company’s ten largest clients accounted for 19%, 19%, and 24% of the Company’s total revenue in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will maintain our existing client base, maintain or increase the level of revenue or profits generated by our existing clients, or be able to attract new clients. Furthermore, the healthcare industry continues to undergo consolidation and we cannot assure you that such consolidation will not cause us to lose clients. The loss of one or more of our large clients or a significant reduction in business from such clients, regardless of the reason, may have a negative effect on our revenue and a corresponding effect on our operating and net income. See “Risk Factors - Because our clients are concentrated in the healthcare industry, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected by changes in regulations, a business downturn or consolidation w ith respect to the healthcare industry.” We face several risks relating to our ability to collect the data on which our business relies. Our ability to provide timely and accurate performance measurement and improvement services to our clients depends on our ability to collect large quantities of high-quality data through surveys and interviews. If receptivity to our survey and interview methods by respondents declines, or for some other reason their willingness to complete and return surveys declines, or if we, for any reason, cannot rely on the integrity of the data we receive, then our revenue could be adversely affected, with a corresponding effect on our operating and net income. We also rely on third-party panels of pre-recruited consumer households to produce Ticker in a timely manner. If we are not able to continue to use these panels, or the time period in which we use these panels is altered and we cannot fin d alternative panels on a timely, cost-competitive basis, we could face an increase in our costs or an inability to effectively produce Ticker. In either case, our operating and net income could be negatively affected. 6 Our principal shareholder effectively controls our company. Michael D. Hays, our President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 66.8% of our outstanding common stock as of March 10, 2011. In addition, Mr. Hays has created a grantor retained annuity trust and has transferred to such trust shares representing approximately 4.2% of our outstanding common stock as of March 10, 2011, all or a portion of which, will be returned to Mr. Hays over the next year. As a result, Mr. Hays can control matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate matters such as change of control transactions. The effects of such influence could be to delay or prevent a change of control of our company unless the terms are approved by Mr. Hays. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain key managers and other personnel. Our future performance may depend, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and ability of our key personnel who have expertise in gathering, interpreting and marketing survey-based performance information for healthcare markets. Although client relationships are managed at many levels within our company, the loss of the services of Michael D. Hays, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or one or more of our other senior managers, could have a material adverse effect, at least in the short to medium term, on most significant aspects of our business, including strategic planning, product development, and sales and customer relations. As of December 31, 2010, we maintained $500,000 of key officer life insurance on Mr. Hays. Our success will also depend on our ability to hire, train and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our business. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with our officers or our other key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and many of the companies that compete with us for qualified personnel have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Furthermore, we expect competition for qualified personnel to become more intense as competition in our industry increases. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified personnel to compete successfully. If intellectual property and other proprietary information technology were copied or independently developed by our competitors, our operating results could be negatively affected. Our success depends in part upon our data collection process, research methods, data analysis techniques, and internal systems and procedures that we have developed specifically to serve clients in the healthcare industry. We have no patents. Consequently, we rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret laws and associate nondisclosure agreements to protect our systems, survey instruments and procedures. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of such rights, or that third parties will not independently develop functionally equivalent or superior systems or procedures. We believe that our systems and procedures and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third pa rties. We cannot assure you, however, that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future, or that any such claims will not result in protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, or whether we are ultimately successful in defending against such claims. 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved staff comments to report pursuant to this item. 