ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks, including those described below. The risks below do not describe all risks applicable to our business and are intended only as a summary of certain material factors that affect our operations in our industry and markets. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance in which we operate. More detailed information concerning these and other risks is contained in other sections of this Report, including “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 13 Table of Contents Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors in our markets, including the metropolitan Atlanta market and surrounding areas as well as our Florida market, experienced an economic downturn that has accelerated through 2008. As a result of this significant downturn, we have experienced dramatic declines in the housing market with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, which have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction and development loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions, including us. At the same time, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These market conditions and the tightening of credit has led to increased deficiencies in our loan portfolio, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. As a result of the negative developments in the financial industry, new federal and state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards have been enacted, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Difficult market conditions and the impact of the new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate loans. Deteriorating credit quality, particularly with respect to our loans which are secured by real estate in our Atlanta MSA market, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us, leading to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in our provision for loan losses. The second half of 2007 through 2008 was highlighted by volatility in the financial markets associated with subprime mortgages, including adverse impacts on credit quality and liquidity within the financial markets. The volatility has been exacerbated by a general decline in the real estate and housing market along with significant mortgage loan related losses reported by many other financial institutions. We have a significant presence in residential construction and development lending on the south side of the Atlanta MSA. Approximately 60% of our residential construction and development loans and 22% of our residential mortgages are in our North Georgia markets. Approximately 82% of our non-performing assets are in our North Georgia markets. The majority of our residential builders construct houses in the $150,000 - $250,000 selling price range and carry inventories of lots for new construction. The supply of vacant, developed lots has increased dramatically as the number of new building permits and housing starts decreased. It may take more than five years for the market to fully absorb the existing lot inventories in some areas on the south side of the Atlanta MSA. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address these difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. Since October 2008, a host of legislation has been enacted in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. § On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA pursuant to which, the Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury Department”) has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions under TARP for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury Department announced the Capital Purchase Program under the EESA pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions. § On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final Rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC will guarantee certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also guarantee, on an unlimited basis, non-interest bearing bank transaction accounts. § On February 10, 1009, the Treasury Department announced the Financial Stability Plan under the EESA, which is intended to further stabilize financial institutions and stimulate lending across a broad range of economic sectors. § On February 18, 2009, President Obama signed the ARRA, a broad economic stimulus package that included additional restrictions on, and potential additional regulation of, financial institutions. 14 Table of Contents Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the Capital Purchase Program, the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the lower level of short-term interest rates, recent developments in the credit and real estate markets and competition in our primary market area. As a financial institution, our earnings are significantly dependent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve’s fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. The Federal Reserve reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 400 basis points, to a range of 0% to 0.25%, during 2008. A significant portion of our loans, including residential construction and development loans and other commercial loans, bear interest at variable rates. The interest rates on a significant portion of these loans decrease when the Federal Reserve reduces interest rates, while the interest that we earn on our assets may not change in the same amount or at the same rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates may reduce our net interest income. In addition, an increase in interest rates may decrease the demand for consumer and commercial credit, including real estate loans, which are a major component of our loan portfolio. Furthermore, increases in interest rates will add to the expenses of our borrowers, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans with us, Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our loan agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies and laws are beyond our control and hard to predict. Increased non-performing loans and the decrease in interest rates reduced our net interest income during 2008 and could cause additional pressure on net interest income in future periods. This reduction in net interest income may also be exacerbated by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market area. Any significant reduction in our net interest income could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse impact on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, or if credit delinquencies increase, our losses could increase. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the quality of our assets, particularly loans. Like other financial institutions, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans, that the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to assure repayment, and that we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining loan balances. The risk of loss varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio after considering these and other factors. Based in part on those assumptions and judgments, we maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses which may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we also rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. However, those established loan loss reserves may prove insufficient. If we are unable to raise revenue to compensate for these losses, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 15 Table of Contents In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance and may increase our cost of funds. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded $18.05 million as a provision for loan losses, compared to the $2.4 million provision for loan loss expense we recorded in 2007. The increase is due to the $35.3 million increase in the loan portfolio, as well as the $44.0 million increase in the level of nonperforming loans during 2008. We expect to continue to increase our allowance for loan losses in 2009; however, we can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. We face strong competition from other financial services providers. We operate in highly competitive markets for the products and services we offer. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is strong. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Some of our competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. Moreover, this highly competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our market areas, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. If we do not have sufficient capital to maintain our “well capitalized” status, we will be unable to access brokered deposits. If we are unable to access brokered deposits, our liquidity would be adversely affected and our ability to meet our obligations, including the payout of deposit accounts would be adversely affected. Due to the highly competitive rates that are being offered on retail time deposits in our local markets, we substantially increased the amount of our brokered deposits during the second half of 2008. As a result, we are more reliant on brokered deposits as a source of liquidity than we have been in the past. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $206.6 million in brokered deposits, which represented approximately 18% of our total deposits. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank was “well capitalized.” However, if we do not have sufficient capital to maintain our “well capitalized” status, we will be unable to access brokered or other out of market wholesale deposits and we will be unable to renew any brokered certificates of deposit or attract new brokered certificates of deposit. If we are unable to continue to attract deposits and maintain sufficient liquidity, our ability to meet our obligations, including the payout of deposit accounts would be adversely affected. If our liquidity becomes severely impaired and we are unable to meet our financial obligations, including the payout of deposit accounts, our banking regulators may subject the Bank to regulatory enforcement action, including receivership. Our business is subject to the success of the economic conditions of the United States and the markets in which we operate. The success of our business and earnings is affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and our market areas, particularly the Georgia counties of Lowndes, Cook, Decatur, Appling, Bulloch, Jeff Davis, Grady, Henry, Hall, Oconee and Forsyth and the Florida counties of Marion and St. Johns. If the communities in which we operate do not grow as anticipated or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively impacted. The current economic downturn, increase in unemployment, and other events that have negatively affected household and/or corporate incomes both nationally and locally have decreased the demand for loans and our other products and services and have increased the number of customers who fail to pay interest or principal on their loans. Furthermore, in the event of economic improvement in the future, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market areas if they do occur. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to return to our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In the future, we may not have the benefit of a favorable interest rate environment and the current weak real estate market may continue for an extended period of time. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. 16 Table of Contents Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of our limited market areas. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. Because the majority of our borrowers are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the Georgia counties of Lowndes, Cook, Decatur, Appling, Bulloch, Jeff Davis, Grady, Henry, Hall, Oconee and Forsyth and the Florida counties of Marion and St. Johns, our success will depend significantly upon the economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties. Due to our limited market areas, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution more able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of or an increase in loan loss reserves. Furthermore, the decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance and interest due on defaulted loans plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. These conditions may result in our need to increase loan loss reserves or charge-off a higher percentage of loans, thereby reducing net income. Furthermore, because we rely more heavily on loans secured by real estate, a continued decrease in real estate values, particularly in our North Georgia market, could cause higher loan losses and require higher loan loss provisions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 87% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Departures of our key personnel may harm our ability to operate successfully. Our success has been and continues to be largely dependent upon the services of our senior management team, including our senior loan officers, and our board of directors, many of whom have significant relationships with our customers. Our continued success will depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service of these key personnel. The prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of any of them could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be assured of the continued service of our senior management team or our board of directors with us. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our operations and any future growth, as well as to protect against any further deterioration in our loan portfolio. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time and on our financial performance. Recently, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to raise additional capital may be disrupted. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Diminished access to alternative sources of liquidity could adversely affect our net income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity. We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given the recent and dramatic downturn in the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, the cost of out-of-market deposits could exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market area, making them unattractive sources of funding; financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally; and, given recent downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising equity capital. If our access to these sources of liquidity is diminished, or only available on unfavorable terms, then our net income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity likely could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC rather than shareholders. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry are changing rapidly to reflect the government’s concerns about the economy and the banking system, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, and the interpretation and implementation of new statutes, regulations or policies, including EESA, TARP, the Financial Stability Plan, and the ARRA, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Fluctuations in our expenses and other costs may hurt our financial results. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating and marketing expenses, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, we must successfully manage such expenses. As our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise. We must respond to rapid technological changes and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. 18 Table of Contents Various domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts could affect our business and financial condition. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, or actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to such acts or threats could negatively affect business and economic conditions in the United States. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including war in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that we cannot predict. The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. The trading volume in our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on NASDAQ or other stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for you to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which you could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our Bank subsidiary to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to our Bank and banks that are regulated by the Federal Reserve. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we are unable to pay dividends on our common stock. In the third quarter of 2008, we suspended our quarterly dividends to shareholders due to a decline in earnings, and we do not intend to pay a dividend in 2009 due to continued pressure on earnings and capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 