ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks, including those described below. The risks below do not describe all risks applicable to our business and are intended only as a summary of certain material factors that affect our operations in our industry and markets. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance in which we operate. More detailed information concerning these and other risks is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, or if credit delinquencies increase, our earnings could decrease. Like other financial institutions, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans, that the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to assure repayment, and that we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining loan balances. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. Based in part on those assumptions and judgments, we maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses which may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we also rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. However, those established loan loss reserves may prove insufficient. If we are unable to raise revenue to compensate for these losses, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 13 In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance and may increase our cost of funds. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded $2.4 million as a provision for loan losses, while we did not incur a provision for loan looses expense in 2006. The increase is due to a growing loan portfolio, as well as a significant increase in the level of nonperforming loans. We face strong competition from other financial services providers. We operate in a highly competitive market for the products and services we offer. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is strong. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Some of our competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. Moreover, this highly competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our market areas, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Our business is subject to the success of the economic conditions of the United States and the markets in which we operate. The success of our business and earnings is affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and our market areas, particularly the Georgia counties of Lowndes, Cook, Decatur, Appling, Bulloch, Jeff Davis, Grady, Henry, Hall, Oconee, Gwinnett and Forsyth and the Florida counties of Duval, Marion, and St. Johns. If the communities in which we operate do not grow as anticipated or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively impacted. An economic downturn, an increase in unemployment, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes either nationally or locally could decrease the demand for loans and our other products and services and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or principal on their loans. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market areas if they do occur. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In the future, we may not have the benefit of a favorable interest rate environment or a strong real estate market. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of our limited market areas. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. Because the majority of our borrowers are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the Georgia counties of Lowndes, Cook, Decatur, Appling, Bulloch, Jeff Davis, Grady, Henry, Hall, Oconee, Gwinnett and Forsyth and the Florida counties of Duval, Marion and St. Johns, our success will depend significantly upon the economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties. Due to our limited market areas, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution more able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. 14 Deteriorating credit quality, particularly with respect to our loans which are secured by real estate in our Atlanta MSA market, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us, leading to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in our provision for loan losses. The second half of 2007 was highlighted by volatility in the financial markets associated with subprime mortgages, including adverse impacts on credit quality and liquidity within the financial markets. The volatility has been exacerbated by a general decline in the real estate and housing market along with significant mortgage loan related losses reported by many other financial institutions. We have a significant presence in residential construction and development lending on the south side of the Atlanta MSA. Approximately 70% of our residential construction and development loans and 17% of our residential mortgages are in our North Georgia markets. The majority of our residential builders construct houses in the $150,000 - $250,000 selling price range and carry inventories of lots for new construction. During the second half of 2007, the supply of vacant, developed lots increased dramatically as the number of new building permits and housing starts decreased. It may take three to four years for the market to fully absorb the existing lot inventories in some areas on the south side of the Atlanta MSA. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of or an increase in loan loss reserves. Furthermore, the decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance and interest due on defaulted loans plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. These conditions may result in our need to increase loan loss reserves or charge-off a higher percentage of loans, thereby reducing net income. Furthermore, because we rely more heavily on loans secured by real estate, a continued decrease in real estate values, particularly in our North Georgia market, could cause higher loan losses and require higher loan loss provisions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 88% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Departures of our key personnel may harm our ability to operate successfully. Our success has been and continues to be largely dependent upon the services of our senior management team, including our senior loan officers, and our board of directors, many of whom have significant relationships with our customers. Our continued success will depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service of these key personnel. The prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of any of them could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be assured of the continued service of our senior management team or our board of directors with us. We may face risks with respect to the future expansion of our business. As we expand our business in the future into new and emerging markets, we may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Such expansion involves risks, including: · entry into new markets where we lack experience; · the introduction of new products or services into our business with which we lack experience; · the time and cost associated with identifying and evaluating potential markets, products and services, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices; · potential time lags between preparatory activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of expansion; and · the estimates and judgments used to evaluate market risks with respect to new markets, products and services may not be accurate. Future growth may require us to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will continue to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot ensure our ability to raise additional capital if needed on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. 15 We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC rather than shareholders. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ, that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. The monetary policies and laws of the United States, including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board, could affect our earnings. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and our return on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Changes in interest rates by the Federal Reserve may affect our level of interest income and interest expense. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase in different amounts and at different rates while the interest that we earn on our assets may not change in the same amounts or at the same rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. In addition, an increase in interest rates may decrease the demand for consumer and commercial credit, including real estate loans, which are a major component of our loan portfolio. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our loan agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies and laws are beyond our control and hard to predict. Fluctuations in our expenses and other costs may hurt our financial results. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating and marketing expenses, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, we must successfully manage such expenses. As our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise. We must respond to rapid technological changes and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 24% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. 16 The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Various domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts could affect our business and financial condition. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, or actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to such acts or threats could negatively affect business and economic conditions in the United States. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including war in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that we cannot predict. The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. The trading volume in our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and, prior to November 1, 2005, on the American Stock Exchange, has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on NASDAQ or other stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for you to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which you could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our Bank subsidiary to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to our Bank and banks that are regulated by the Federal Reserve. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 