ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. We review and update our risk factors each quarter. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, results or financial condition. You should read the following risk factors in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and our other filings with the SEC and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. These risk factors are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies like National with broad international operations. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our stock is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. We operate in the global marketplace and face risks associated with worldwide operations. During fiscal 2007, approximately 78 percent of our revenues were derived from customers in international markets. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant majority of our total revenue in future years. We have manufacturing facilities outside the United States in the U.K., Malaysia and China. We are subject to the economic and political risks inherent in international operations, including the risks associated with ongoing uncertainties and political and economic instability in many countries around the world. In addition, the management of global operations subjects us to risks associated with trade balance issues, currency controls, differences in local business and cultural factors, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Although we did not experience any materially adverse effects from our international operations as a result of these types of factors in fiscal 2007, one or more of these factors has had an adverse effect on us in the past and could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. Conditions inherent in the semiconductor industry may cause periodic fluctuations in our operating results. Rapid technological change and frequent introduction of new technology leading to more complex and integrated products characterize the semiconductor industry. The result is a cyclical environment with potentially short product life cycles, even with analog products which form the core of our strategic focus. We have seen and may see in the future significant and rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Although less capital investment is needed for analog products than for many other semiconductor products, substantial capital and R&D investment are required to support products and manufacturing processes in the semiconductor industry, which amplify the effect of this cyclicality. As a result of this environment, we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future periodic fluctuations in our operating results. Market shifts in product mix toward or away from higher margin products, including analog products, may also have a significant impact on our operating results. As a result of these and other factors, our financial results could fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to compete successfully in our markets. Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense. Our major competitors include Analog Devices, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products and Texas Instruments. These companies sell competing products into some of the same markets that we target. In some cases, we may also compete with our customers. Competition is based on design and quality of products, product performance, price and service, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. A large portion of our revenues is dependent on the wireless handset market. The wireless handset market continues to be a significant source of our overall sales. New products are being developed to address new features and functionality in handsets, such as advanced color displays, advanced audio, lighting features and battery management that can adequately handle the demands of these advanced features. Due to high levels of competition, as well as complex technological requirements, there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in this targeted market. Although the worldwide handset market is large, growth trends and other variables are often uncertain and difficult to predict. Revenues from this market in fiscal 2007 were lower than we had originally expected. Since the wireless handset market is a consumer-driven market, changes in the economy that affect consumer demand could affect our business and operating results. Page 13 of 98 We depend on demand from the consumer, original equipment manufacturer, contract manufacturing, industrial, automotive and other markets we serve for the end market applications which incorporate our products. Reduced consumer or corporate spending in these markets due to fluctuating oil prices or other economic factors could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. Our revenues and gross margins are based on certain levels of consumer and corporate spending. If our projections of these expenditures fail to materialize due to reduced consumer or corporate spending, from increased oil prices or otherwise, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. We may experience delays in introducing new products or market acceptance of new products may be below our expectations. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries in which our primary customers operate. As our customers evolve and introduce new products, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by developing and introducing into the market new products that meet the needs of our customers. We believe that continued focused investment in research and development, especially the timely development and market acceptance of new analog products, is a key factor to successful growth and the ability to achieve strong financial performance. Successful development and introduction of these new products are critical to our ability to maintain a competitive position in the marketplace. We will continue to invest resources to develop more highly integrated solutions and building block products, both primarily based on our analog capabilities. We will continue to target applications such as wireless handsets, displays, other portable devices and applications in other broad markets that require analog technology. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in timely developing and introducing successful new products, and a failure to bring new products to market may harm our operating results. We also cannot assure you that products that may be developed in the future by our competitors will not render our products obsolete or non-competitive. We make forecasts of customer demand that need to be accurate. Our ability to match inventory and production mix with the product mix needed to fill current orders and orders to be delivered in any given quarter may affect our ability to meet that quarter’s revenue forecast. To be able to accommodate customer requests for shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture product based on customer forecasts. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. While we believe our relationships with our customers, combined with our understanding of the end markets we serve, provide us with the ability to make reliable forecasts, if we inaccurately forecast customer demand, it could result in inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins. Our performance depends on the availability and cost of raw materials, utilities, critical manufacturing equipment and third-party manufacturing services. Our manufacturing processes and critical manufacturing equipment require that certain key raw materials and utilities be available. Limited or delayed access to and high costs of these items, as well as the inability to implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment on a timely basis could adversely affect our results of operations. We subcontract a portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of our integrated circuits. We depend on a limited number of third parties, most of whom are located outside of the United States, to perform these functions. We do not have long-term contracts with all of these third parties. Reliance on these third parties involves risks, including possible shortages of capacity in periods of high demand. Although we did not experience any material difficulties with supplies or subcontractors in fiscal 2007, we have had difficulties in the past and could experience them in the future. We are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. We could be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expenses as we defend such claims or pay damage awards. In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur costs if we compensate the affected customer. We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. We may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one of our customers’ products containing one of our devices. Although costs or payments we have made in connection with warranty claims or product recalls in the past have not materially affected our results of operations and financial condition, they could in the future. Our profit margins may vary over time. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of our inventory and shifts in our product mix. In addition, the competitive market environment in which we operate may adversely affect pricing for our products, although we try to emphasize higher margin products. Because we own most of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, including costs associated with depreciation expense. In general, these costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of our Page 14 of 98 manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will result in higher average unit costs and lower gross margins. We may be harmed by natural disasters and other disruptions. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other disruptions. Our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. In the event of a major earthquake, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. The operations of our suppliers could also be subject to natural disasters and other disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. We use third party freight firms for nearly all of our shipments from vendors and from our foundries to assembly and test sites and for shipments to customers of our final product. This includes ground, sea and air freight. Any significant disruption of our freight shipments globally or in certain parts of the world, particularly where our operations are concentrated, would materially affect our operations. We may not be able to attract or retain employees with skills necessary to remain competitive in our industry. Our continued success depends in part on the recruitment and retention of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel. Experienced personnel in the semiconductor industry, particularly in our targeted analog areas, are in high demand and competition for their skills is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully recruit and retain the key personnel we require. Our products are dependent on the use of intellectual property that we need to protect. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies, and have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, trademarks, mask works and copyrights in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some countries. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. In addition, we cannot assure you that: • the patents owned by us or numerous other patents which third parties license to us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies; or • any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our collaborators will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our research collaborations. In addition, we may not be able to enforce these agreements globally. Some of our technologies have been licensed on a non-exclusive basis from other companies, which may license such technologies to others, including our competitors. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents or intellectual property rights claimed by others. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technologies we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. We have significantly expanded our manufacturing operations in China and, as a result, will be increasingly subject to risks inherent in doing business in China. Since we began production in our assembly and test facility in Suzhou, China in fiscal 2005, the factory has steadily increased its output. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in China’s laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Our operations in China are subject to the economic and political situation there. We believe that our operations in China are in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that China’s central or local governments will not impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures. Changes in the political environment or government policies could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations. In addition, a significant destabilization of relations between China and the United States could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations in China. The legal system of China relating to foreign trade and intellectual property is relatively new and continues to evolve. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be sporadic and implementation and interpretation of laws may be inconsistent. Moreover, there is a high degree of fragmentation among regulatory authorities resulting in uncertainties as to which authorities have jurisdiction over particular parties or transactions. Page 15 of 98 We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. While we transact business primarily in U.S. dollars, and most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs and revenues is denominated in other currencies, such as the euro, the Japanese yen, pound sterling and certain other Asian currencies. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our costs of goods sold and operating margins. We have a program to hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations, but our hedging program may not be fully effective in preventing foreign exchange losses. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of May 27, 2007, we had approximately $453.1 million of total liabilities on a consolidated basis. On June 7, 2007, we announced that we would incur $1.5 billion of indebtedness under a bridge credit facility to purchase shares of our common stock through an accelerated stock repurchase program. We have subsequently issued $1.0 billion in senior unsecured notes and entered into a bank loan in the aggregate principal amount of $0.5 billion to fully repay indebtedness under the bridge credit facility. This increase and any future increase in our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • we have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the notes; • sell selected assets; • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or • reduce or delay planned operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all. Rises in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an immediate effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, including the senior floating rate notes and bank debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates on a quarterly basis. If interest rates rise, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. As a protection against rising interest rates, we may enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts. These agreements, however, increase our risks as to the other parties to the agreements not performing or that the agreements could be unenforceable. We may pursue acquisitions, investments and divestitures that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. We have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary to gain access to key technologies that we believe will augment our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. Acquisitions and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may unfavorably impact our future financial performance. We may not be able to integrate and develop the technologies we acquire as expected. If the technology is not developed in a timely manner, we may be unsuccessful in penetrating target markets. With any acquisition there are risks that future operating results may be unfavorably affected by acquisition related costs, including in-process R&D charges and incremental R&D spending. Page 16 of 98 We have made and will continue to consider making strategic divestitures. With any divestiture, there are risks that future operating results could be unfavorably impacted if targeted objectives, such as cost savings, are not achieved or if other business disruptions occur as a result of the divestiture or activities related to the divestiture. We are subject to litigation risks. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims. We are involved in a variety of routine legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. Further discussion of certain specific material legal proceedings we are involved with is contained in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and unpredictable. An unfavorable resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations. Increasingly stringent environmental regulations restrict the amount and types of materials that can be released from our operations into the environment. While the cost of compliance with environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations historically, compliance with these and any future regulations could require significant capital investments in pollution control equipment or changes in the way we make our products. In addition, because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to risks of liabilities and claims, regardless of fault, resulting from accidental releases, including personal injury claims and civil and criminal fines. The following should also be considered: • we currently are remediating past contamination at some of our sites; • we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at a number of Superfund sites where we (or our predecessors) disposed of wastes in the past; and • significant regulatory and public attention on the impact of semiconductor operations on the environment may result in more stringent regulations, further increasing our costs. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments. As a global company headquartered in the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and related product information. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our operations or our sales in the recent past but could significantly limit them in the future. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. Although these restrictions and laws have not significantly restricted our operations in the recent past, there is a risk that they could in the future. We may be affected by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. As a global company, our effective tax rate is dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and complex analyses and significant judgment are required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. From time to time, we have received notices of tax assessments in various jurisdictions where we operate. We may receive future notices of assessments and the amounts of these assessments or our failure to favorably resolve such assessments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have significant amounts of deferred tax assets. The recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. A significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Page 17 of 98 Recent events and global disruptions could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. Terrorist activities worldwide and hostilities in and between nation states, including the continuing hostilities and violence in Iraq and the threat of future hostilities involving the U.S. and other countries, may cause uncertainty and instability in the overall state of the global economy or in the industries in which we operate. We have no assurance that the consequences from these events will not disrupt our operations in either the U.S. or other regions of the world. Continued wide fluctuations in oil prices could affect our future costs and revenues. Pandemic illnesses that spread globally and/or substantial natural disasters, as well as geopolitical events, may affect our future costs, operating capabilities and revenues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Page 18 of 98 