1A: Risk Factors" and business outlook section in Part II of Form 10-K "Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These statements relate to, among other things, sales, gross margins, operating expenses, capital expenditures, R&D efforts and asset dispositions and are indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "expect," "outlook," "foresee," "believe," "could," "intend," "will," and similar words or phrases. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as predictions of future events as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements, see the discussion on "Risk Factors" that appears in Item 1A of this 2006 Form 10-K and other risks and uncertainties detailed in this and our other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so. General We design, develop, manufacture and market a wide range of semiconductor products, most of which are analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits. Our focus is on creating analog-intensive solutions that provide energy efficiency, portability, better audio, sharper images and higher performance in electronic systems. We target a broad range of markets and applications such as: o wireless handsets o medical applications o displays o automotive applications o networks o test and measurement applications o industrial markets o a broad range of portable applications We are a premier analog company creating high-value analog devices and subsystems. Our leading-edge products include power management circuits, display drivers, audio and operational amplifiers, communication interface products and data conversion solutions. Approximately 86 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2006 was generated from analog-based products, and we believe this percentage can continue to grow in the future as a result of our focus on developing new analog products for a variety of markets and applications. National was originally incorporated in the state of Delaware in 1959 and our headquarters have been in Santa Clara, California since 1967. Our fiscal year ends on the last Sunday of May and references in this document to fiscal 2006 refer to our fiscal year ended May 28, 2006. References to fiscal 2005 refer to our fiscal year ended May 29, 2005 and to fiscal 2004 refer to our fiscal year ended May 30, 2004. Our fiscal 2006 and 2005 had 52-week years and fiscal 2004 had a 53-week year. On our "Investor Information" website, located at www.national.com, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All of the filings on our website are available free of charge. We also maintain certain corporate governance documents on our website, including our Code of Conduct and Ethics, Director Affairs Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Audit Committee Charter and Other Governance Policies. We will provide a printed copy of any of these documents to any shareholder who requests it. We do not intend for information found on our website to be part of this document or part of any other report or filing with the SEC. Recent Highlights Throughout fiscal 2006, we continued to focus on addressing analog product areas, particularly in the analog standard linear categories. The World Semiconductor Trade Statistics (WSTS) define "standard linear" as amplifiers, data converters, regulators and references (power management products), and interface. As a part of our business focus, we periodically identify opportunities to improve our cost structure or to divest or reduce involvement in product areas that are not in line with our business objectives. In June 2005, we completed the sale of our cordless business unit in Europe to HgCapital. In July 2005, we announced a planned closure of our assembly and test plant in Singapore in a phased shutdown with the plant's volume to be consolidated into our other assembly and test facilities in Malaysia and China. The closure activities occurred throughout fiscal 2006 and are targeted to be completed by the end of our first quarter of fiscal 2007. In November 2005, we took steps to reduce indirect manufacturing costs at our Texas plant. This included a change in the plant's organizational structure and a reduction of its workforce. Our sales and gross margin percentage in fiscal 2006 were both higher than they were in the preceding fiscal year. The improvement in gross margin reflects growth in our higher margin analog products, as well as higher factory utilization associated with increased volume. We continued our focus on improving our gross margin relative to sales with our research and development investments aimed primarily at high-value growth areas in analog standard linear markets. We continued our stock repurchase program in fiscal 2006. Stock was repurchased in fiscal 2006 under three programs: (i) the $400 million stock repurchase program announced in March 2005 (of which we used $96.0 million to repurchase 4.9 million shares of common stock in fiscal 2005), (ii) the $400 million stock repurchase program announced in September 2005, and (iii) another $400 million stock repurchase program announced in December 2005. Under these programs we repurchased a total of 37.2 million shares of our common stock for $950.7 million during fiscal 2006. All of these shares were purchased in the open market. The stock repurchase program is one element of our overall effort to deliver a consistently high return on invested capital, which we believe improves shareholder value over time. As of May 28, 2006, we had $153.3 million remaining for future common stock repurchases under the program announced in December 2005. On June 8, 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an additional $500 million stock repurchase program similar to our prior stock repurchase programs. We also continued our dividend program in fiscal 2006, as we paid a total of $34.2 million in cash dividends in fiscal 2006. In June 2006, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.03 per outstanding share of common stock, which was paid on July 10, 2006 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 19, 2006. Products Semiconductors are integrated circuits (in which a number of transistors and other elements are combined to form a more complicated circuit) or discrete devices (such as individual transistors). In an integrated circuit, various components are fabricated in a small area or "chip" of silicon, which is then encapsulated in plastic, ceramic or other advanced forms of packaging and connected to a circuit board or substrate. We manufacture an extensive range of analog intensive and mixed-signal integrated circuits, which are used in numerous applications. While no precise industry definition exists for analog and mixed-signal devices, we consider products which process analog information or convert analog to digital or digital to analog as analog and mixed-signal devices. We are a leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal products, serving both broad based markets such as the industrial, communications, computing, consumer, medical and automotive markets, and more narrowly defined markets such as wireless handsets, LCD monitors, personal computers and HDTVs. Our analog and mixed-signal devices include: o operational and audio amplifiers o communication interface circuits o power references, regulators o flat panel display drivers and signal and switchers processors o analog to digital or o radio frequency integrated circuits or digital-to-analog converters Other products with significant analog content include products for local area and wireless networking and wireless communications. Other product offerings that are not analog or mixed-signal include microcontrollers, connectivity processors and embedded BluetoothTM solutions that collectively serve a wide variety of applications in the wireless, personal computer, industrial, automotive, consumer and communication markets. Our diverse portfolio of intellectual property enables us to develop building block products, application-specific standard products and custom large-scale integrations for our customers. Our high-performance building blocks and application-specific standard products allow our customers to solve challenging technical problems and to differentiate their systems in a way that is beneficial to the end user. With our leadership in innovative packaging and analog process technology, we can address growth opportunities that depend upon the critical elements of efficiency, physical size and performance. We continue to focus on directly servicing the top tier original equipment manufacturers in many markets and on expanding our presence for a broader range of customers through our franchised distributors. Corporate Organization Our various product line business units are combined to form groups. During fiscal 2006, our operations were organized in two groups: the Power Management Group and the Analog Signal Path Group. Power Management Group Our Power Management Group contains five different business units in the power management area which form the Power Management Division, as well as three other business units that address displays, device connectivity and ASIC & telecom. Power management refers to the conversion and management of power consumption in electronic systems. Integrated circuits such as digital processors, analog to digital converters and light emitting diodes each require different power sources to operate. Power management ICs convert and regulate voltages to ensure these products operate to their fullest potential with the lowest overall power consumption. Our power management portfolio provides our customers valuable solutions to solve their power conversion needs. The Power Management Division designs, develops and manufactures a wide range of products including: o high-efficiency switching voltage regulators and controllers o high-performance low drop-out voltage regulators o accurate white LED drivers o precision voltage references o battery management integrated circuits We are growing our power management business by balancing our focus between broad customer needs and specific target markets. We continue to strengthen our broad portfolio of power management ICs which can address customer needs in a variety of end-markets such as consumer, industrial, medical, automotive and communications infrastructure markets. At the same time, we focus on markets, such as portable electronic devices and displays, which provide significant growth while valuing the performance our products deliver, such as power consumption efficiency and size reduction. We continue to push the performance envelope of power management building blocks in terms of providing greater efficiency, increased power density, tighter accuracy and wider voltage ranges. These building block products serve as the starting point for the development of highly integrated application-specific standard products for high volume applications. The Displays business unit develops technology leadership products for the liquid crystal display (LCD) panel market. The end products in this market include LCD TV displays, handheld devices, notebook thin film transistor (TFT) panels and flat panel monitors. The devices we produce to address these products include timing controllers, low voltage differential signal (LVDS) data receivers, LVDS transmitters and integrated display drivers. We continue to demonstrate our innovation in the displays space through the proliferation of new display architecture standards. For example, our Mobile PixelLink (MPL) technology enables reduced power and wire count in handheld devices. Also, our point-to-point differential signaling (PPDS) technology for LCD TVs enables cinema quality display performance featuring 10-bit "Deep Color" with independent programmable gamma. We have licensed our PPDS technology to major column driver providers including Sharp, Himax, ST Micro and Magnachip. The Device Connectivity business unit supplies connectivity devices, embedded BluetoothTM solutions, general-purpose microcontrollers and DVD chipset solutions. Applications include BluetoothTM accessories, telematics (automotive) and industrial equipment. Our general-purpose 8 and 16 bit microcontrollers address a wide variety of applications in the industrial, automotive, consumer and communication markets. The ASIC & Telecom business unit supplies user-designed application specific products in the form of standard cells and gate arrays, key telecommunications components for analog and digital line cards, as well as AC97-compliant audio codecs for consumer and automotive applications. This business unit also handles the logistics for providing materials and services to third parties in support of the transitional service agreements associated with businesses that we have divested. Analog Signal Path Group Key business units under the Analog Signal Path Group include the Amplifiers, Audio, Data Conversion and Interface business units, as well as Hi-Rel operations. The analog signal path refers to the analog technology that is applied during the path that information or data travels along from the point where it enters the electronic equipment, is conditioned, converted and processed to the point where it is sent out. Our analog signal path products provide a vital technology link that allows the user to connect to digital information. They are used to enable and enrich the user experience of sight and sound of many electronic applications. In addition to providing the real world interfaces, analog signal path products are used extensively in signal conditioning, signal conversion (from analog to digital and vice versa) and high-speed signal interfacing applications. The Analog Signal Path Group designs, develops and manufactures a wide range of products including: o high-performance operational amplifiers o high-performance analog-to-digital converters and digital-to-analog converters o high-speed signal conditioning products o precision timing products o high-efficiency audio amplifiers o thermal management products We are expanding our presence in the broader markets by developing more high-performance analog products that can address various applications in the broad consumer, industrial, medical, automotive and communications infrastructure markets. With our growing product portfolio of high-performance building blocks, we continue to improve performance by providing greater precision, higher speed and lower power which our customers value. These building block products serve as the starting point for the development of highly integrated application-specific standard products for high volume applications. The Hi-Rel business unit of the Analog Signal Path Group supplies integrated circuits and contract services to the high reliability market, which includes avionics, defense, space and the federal government. Worldwide Marketing and Sales Group, Technology Development Group and Manufacturing Operations Group Separate from our business operating groups, our corporate structure in fiscal 2006 includes a centralized Worldwide Marketing and Sales Group, a Technology Development Group and a Manufacturing Operations Group. The Worldwide Marketing and Sales Group unites our global sales and marketing organization which is structured around the four major regions of the world where we operate (the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific). The Technology Development Group is a centralized worldwide organization which encompasses process development, technology infrastructure and shared engineering services. Process development undertakes research in and development of proprietary processes for the manufacture of our products. Technology infrastructure provides a range of process libraries, product cores and software, and the selection and support of computer aided design tools used in the design, layout and simulation of our products. Engineering services provide test development and reliability services used across all of our product lines. The Manufacturing Operations Group is a centralized worldwide organization that manages all production, including outsourced manufacturing, global logistics, and packaging technology. Segment Financial Information and Geographic Information For segment reporting purposes, each of our product line business units represents an operating segment as defined under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. Business units that have similarities, including economic characteristics, underlying technology, markets and customers, are aggregated into larger segments. Under the criteria in SFAS No. 131, Analog is our only reportable segment for fiscal 2006. The remaining business units that are not included in the Analog reportable segment are grouped as "All Other." For further financial information on the Analog reportable segment, as well as geographic information, refer to the information contained in Note 13, "Segment and Geographic Information," in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Marketing and Sales We market our products globally to original equipment manufacturers and original design manufacturers through a direct sales force. Some of our major OEMs include: o Apple Computer o Motorola o Siemens o Robert Bosch o Nokia o Sony o LG Electronics o Samsung o Sony - Ericsson Mobile Communication o L.M. Ericsson o Seagate o Toshiba o Matsushita Electric o Sharp There is a prevalent trend in the technology industry where OEMs use contract manufacturers to build their products and ODMs to design and build products. As a result, our design wins with major OEMs, particularly in the personal computer and cellular phone markets, can ultimately result in sales to a third party manufacturer. In addition to our direct sales force, we use distributors in our four geographic business regions, and approximately 51 percent of our fiscal 2006 net sales were made to distributors. In line with industry practices, we generally credit distributors for the effect of price reductions on their inventory of our products and, under specific conditions, we repurchase products that we have discontinued. Distributors do not have the right to return product except under customary warranty provisions. The programs we offer to our distributors include the following: o Allowances involving pricing and volume. We refer to this as the "contract sales debit" program. o Allowance for inventory scrap. We refer to this as the "scrap allowance" program. o Discount for early payment. We refer to this as the "prompt payment" program. Under the contract sales debit program, products are sold to distributors at standard published prices that are contained in price books that are broadly provided to our various distributors. Distributors are required to pay for this product within our standard commercial terms. After the initial purchase of the product, the distributor has the opportunity to request a price allowance for a particular part number depending on the current market conditions for that specific part as well as volume considerations. This request is made prior to the distributor reselling the part. Once we have approved an allowance to the distributor, the distributor proceeds with the resale of the product and credits are issued to the distributor in accordance with the specific allowance that we approved. Periodically, we issue new distributor price books. For those parts for which the standard prices have been reduced, we provide an immediate credit to distributors for inventory quantities they have on hand. Under the scrap allowance program, certain distributors are given a contractually defined allowance to cover the cost of any scrap they might incur. The amount of the allowance is specifically agreed upon with each distributor. Under the prompt payment program, certain distributors are granted a fixed percentage discount off the invoice price for payment earlier than our standard commercial terms. This program was discontinued during fiscal 2006 for substantially all of our distributors, except those in the Japanese region. Our regional facilities in the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific handle local customer support. These customer support centers respond to inquiries on product pricing and availability, pre-sale customer technical support requests, order entry and scheduling, and post-sale support under our product warranty provisions. The technical support provided to our customers consists of marketing activities that occur prior to sale of product to our customers and for which we have no contractual obligation and no fees are charged. Technical support consists primarily of aiding customers in product selection and answering questions about our products. We augment our sales effort with application engineers based in the field. These engineers are specialists in our product portfolio and work with customers to identify and design our integrated circuits into customers' products and applications. These engineers also help identify emerging markets for new products and are supported by our design centers in the field or at manufacturing sites. We also provide web-based, on-line tools that allow customers and potential customers to select our devices, create a design using our parts, and simulate performance of that design. Customers Our top ten customers combined represented approximately 64 percent of total accounts receivable at May 28, 2006 and approximately 49 percent at May 29, 2005. The distributor Avnet accounted for 12 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2006, and 11 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and 2004. In addition, the distributor Arrow accounted for 12 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2006 and 10 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and 2004. Although we do not have any other customers with sales greater than 10 percent, we do have several large OEM customers that manufacture and market wireless handsets, among other electronic products. These customers typically purchase a range of different products from us. If any one of these customers were to cease purchasing products from us within a very short timeframe, such as within one quarter, it could have a negative impact on our financial results for that period. However, we have not had any such experience to date. Backlog In accordance with industry practice, we frequently revise semiconductor backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders to reflect changes in customer needs. We rarely formally enforce binding agreements for the sale of specific quantities at specific prices that are contractually subject to price or quantity revisions, consistent with industry practice. For these reasons, we do not believe it is meaningful to disclose the amount of backlog at any particular date. Seasonality We are affected by the seasonal trends in the semiconductor and related industries. We typically experience sequentially lower sales in our first and third fiscal quarters, primarily due to customer vacation and holiday schedules. Sales usually reach a seasonal peak in our fourth fiscal quarter. This typical trend did not occur during fiscal 2006, as sales in our third fiscal quarter, which are typically lower, were slightly higher than sales in the preceding second quarter. During the third quarter, sales from broader markets served through our distribution channel were strong and more than offset the expected seasonal decline in sales from products that serve wireless handsets. Sales did peak for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Manufacturing The design of semiconductor and integrated circuit products is shaped by general market needs and customer requirements. Following product design and development, we generally produce integrated circuits in the following steps: o Wafer Fabrication. Product designs are compiled and digitized by state of the art design equipment and then transferred to silicon wafers in a series of complex precision processes that include oxidation, lithography, chemical etching, diffusion, deposition, implantation and metallization. o Wafer Sort. The silicon wafers are tested and separated into individual circuit devices. o Product Assembly. Tiny wires are used to connect the electronic circuits on the device to the stronger metal leads of the package in which the device is encapsulated for protection. o Final Test. The devices are subjected to a series of vigorous tests using computerized circuit testers and, for certain applications, environmental testers such as burn-in ovens, centrifuges, temperature cycle or moisture resistance testers, salt atmosphere testers and thermal shock testers. o Coating. Certain devices in the analog portfolio are designed to be used without traditional packaging. In this case, the integrated circuit is coated with a protective material and mounted directly onto the circuit board. Wafer fabrication is concentrated in two facilities in the United States and one in Scotland. During fiscal 2006, nearly all product assembly and final test operations were performed at our facilities located in Malaysia and China. In July 2005, we announced a plan to close our assembly and test facility in Singapore and consolidate its production volume into our other assembly and test facilities in Malaysia and China. The majority of closure activities took place during fiscal 2006 and the remainder is expected to be completed by August 2007. We currently do not anticipate any additional facility closures in the foreseeable future. We routinely use subcontractors to perform certain manufacturing functions in the United States, Europe, Israel, Southeast Asia, China and Japan to address capacity and other economic issues. Our wafer manufacturing processes include Bipolar, Metal Oxide Silicon, Complementary Metal Oxide Silicon and Bipolar Complementary Metal Oxide Silicon technologies, including Silicon Germanium. Our efforts are heavily focused on proprietary processes that support our analog portfolio of products, which address wireless handsets, displays, computers and a broad variety of other electronic applications. The feature size of the individual transistors on a chip is measured in microns; one micron equals one millionth of a meter. As products decrease in size and increase in functionality, our wafer fabrication facilities must be able to manufacture integrated circuits with sub-micron circuit pattern widths. This precision fabrication carries over to assembly and test operations, where advanced packaging technology and comprehensive testing are required to address the ever increasing performance and complexity embedded in integrated circuits. Raw Materials Our manufacturing processes use certain key raw materials critical to our products. These include silicon wafers, certain chemicals and gases, ceramic and plastic packaging materials and various precious metals. We also rely on subcontractors to supply finished or semi-finished products which we then market through our sales channels. We obtain raw materials and semi-finished or finished products from various sources, although the number of sources for any particular material or product is relatively limited. We believe our current supply of essential materials is sufficient to meet our needs. However, shortages have occurred from time to time and could occur again. Significant increases in demand, rapid product mix changes or natural disasters could affect our ability to procure materials or goods. Research and Development Our research and development efforts consist of research in metallurgical, electro-mechanical and solid-state sciences, manufacturing process development and product design. Research and development of most process technologies are conducted by our technology development group. Specific product design and development is generally done in our business units. Total R&D expenses were $326.6 million for fiscal 2006, or 15 percent of net sales, compared to $333.0 million for fiscal 2005, or 17 percent of net sales, and $357.1 million for fiscal 2004, or 18 percent of net sales. Lower research and development expenses in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 largely reflect cost savings from two businesses we divested at or near the end of fiscal 2005. At the same time, we are continuing to concentrate our ongoing research and development spending on analog products and underlying analog capabilities. Although research and development spending is down as a whole and as a percentage of sales, research and development spending on our key focus areas in the Analog segment increased approximately 15 percent as we continue to invest in the development of new analog products for wireless handsets, displays, other portable devices, as well as applications for the broader markets requiring analog technology. A significant portion of our research and development is directed at power management technology. Patents We own numerous United States and non-U.S. patents and have many patent applications pending. We consider the development of patents and the maintenance of an active patent program advantageous to the conduct of our business. However, we believe that continued success will depend more on engineering, production, marketing, financial and managerial skills than on our patent program. We license certain of our patents to other manufacturers and participate in a number of cross licensing arrangements and agreements with other parties. Each license agreement has unique terms and conditions, with variations as to length of term, royalties payable, permitted uses and scope. The majority of these agreements are cross-licenses in which we grant a broad license to our intellectual property in exchange for receiving a similar corresponding license from the other party, and none are exclusive. The amount of income we have received from licensing agreements has varied in the past, and we cannot precisely forecast the amount and timing of future income from licensing agreements. On an overall basis, we believe that no single license agreement is material to us, either in terms of royalty payments due or payable or intellectual property rights granted or received. Employees At May 28, 2006, we employed approximately 8,500 people of whom approximately 3,500 were employed in the United States, 800 in Europe, 3,200 in Southeast Asia, 900 in China and 100 in other areas. We believe that our future success depends fundamentally on our ability to recruit and retain skilled technical and professional personnel. Our employees in the United States are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations worldwide to be favorable. Competition Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense. With our focus on high-value analog, our major competitors include Analog Devices, Linear Technology, Maxim and Texas Instruments. In some cases, we may also compete with our customers. Competition is based on design and quality of products, product performance, price and service, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products and markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. Environmental Regulations To date, our compliance with foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted to regulate the environment has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, competitive or financial position. For more information, see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" and Note 12, "Commitments and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. However, we could be subject to fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of our operations if we fail to comply with present or future statutes and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should read the following Risk Factors in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. These Risk Factors are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies like National with broad international operations. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our stock is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. Conditions inherent in the semiconductor industry may cause periodic fluctuations in our operating results. Rapid technological change and frequent introduction of new technology leading to more complex and integrated products characterize the semiconductor industry. The result is a cyclical environment with short product life cycles, even with analog products which form the core of our strategic focus. We have seen and may see in the future significant and rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Although less capital investment is needed for analog products than for many other semiconductor products, substantial capital and R&D investment are required to support products and manufacturing processes in the semiconductor industry. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future periodic fluctuations in our operating results. Market shifts in product mix toward, or away from, higher margin products, including analog products, can also have a significant impact on our operating results. As a result of these and other factors, our financial results can fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to compete successfully in our markets. Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense. Our major competitors include Analog Devices, Linear Technology, Maxim and Texas Instruments. These companies sell competing products into some of the same markets that we target. In some cases, we may also compete with our customers. Competition is based on design and quality of products, product performance, price and service, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. A large portion of our revenues is dependent on the wireless handset market. The wireless handset market continues to be a significant source of our overall sales. New products are being developed to address new features and functionality in handsets, such as advanced color displays, advanced audio, lighting features and battery management that can adequately handle the demands of these advanced features. Due to high levels of competition, as well as complex technological requirements, there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in this targeted market. Although the worldwide handset market is large, near-term growth trends are often uncertain and difficult to predict with accuracy. Since the wireless handset market is a consumer-driven market, downturns in the economy that affect consumer demand can impact our business and results. We may experience delays in introducing new products or market acceptance of new products may be below our expectations. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries in which our primary customers operate. As our customers evolve and introduce new products, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by developing and introducing into the market new products that meet the needs of our customers. We believe that continued focused investment in research and development, especially the timely development and market acceptance of new analog products, is a key factor to successful growth and the ability to achieve strong financial performance. Successful development and introduction of these new products are critical to our ability to maintain a competitive position in the marketplace. We will continue to invest resources to develop more highly integrated solutions and building block products, both primarily based on our analog capabilities. These products will continue to be targeted towards applications such as wireless handsets, displays, other portable devices and applications in other broad markets that require analog technology. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in timely developing and introducing successful new products, and a failure to bring new products to market may harm our operating results. We also cannot assure you that products that may be developed in the future by our competitors will not render our products obsolete or non-competitive. We make forecasts of customer demand which need to be accurate. Our ability to match inventory and production mix with the product mix needed to fill current orders and orders to be delivered in any given quarter may affect our ability to meet that quarter's revenue forecast. To be able to accommodate customer requests for shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture product based on customer forecasts. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. While we believe our relationships with our customers, combined with our understanding of the end-markets we serve, provide us with the ability to make reliable forecasts, if we inaccurately forecast customer demand, it could result in inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins. Our performance depends on the availability and cost of raw materials, utilities, critical manufacturing equipment and third-party manufacturing services. Our manufacturing processes and critical manufacturing equipment require that certain key raw materials and utilities be available. Limited or delayed access to and high costs of these items, as well as the inability to implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment on a timely basis could adversely affect our results of operations. We subcontract a portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of our integrated circuits. We depend on a limited number of third parties to perform these functions. We do not have long-term contracts with all of these third parties. Reliance on these third parties involves risks, including possible shortages of capacity in periods of high demand. Although we did not experience any material difficulties with supplies or subcontractors in the last year, we have had difficulties in the past and could experience them in the future. We are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. We could be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expenses as we defend such claims or pay damage awards. In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur costs if we compensate the affected customer. We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. We may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one of our customers' products containing one of our devices. Although costs or payments we have made in connection with warranty claims or product recalls in the past have not adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition, they could in the future. Our profit margins may vary over time. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of our inventory and shifts in our product mix. In addition, the competitive market environment in which we operate may adversely affect pricing for our products, although we try to emphasize higher margin products. Because we own most of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, including costs associated with depreciation expense. In general, these costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of our manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will result in higher average unit costs and lower gross margins. We may be harmed by natural disasters and other disruptions. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other disruptions. Our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. In the event of a major earthquake, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. The operations of our suppliers could also be subject to natural disasters and other disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. We use third party freight firms for nearly all of our shipments from vendors, from our foundries to assembly and test sites and for shipments to customers of our final product. This includes ground, sea and air freight. Any significant disruption of our freight business globally or in certain parts of the world, particularly where our operations are concentrated, would materially affect our operations. We may not be able to attract or retain employees with skills necessary to remain competitive in our industry. Our continued success depends in part on the recruitment and retention of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel. Experienced personnel in the semiconductor industry, particularly in our targeted analog areas, are in high demand and competition for their skills is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully recruit and retain the key personnel we require. Our products are dependent on the use of intellectual property which we need to protect. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application and we cannot assure you that: o the patents owned by us or numerous other patents which third parties license to us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies o any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some countries. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors' rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of such research. Some of our technologies have been licensed on a non-exclusive basis from other companies, which may license such technologies to others, including our competitors. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents or intellectual property rights claimed by others. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technologies we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. We face risks from our international operations. We have operations in many countries and, as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. International sales accounted for approximately 80% of our revenue in fiscal 2006 and we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant majority of our total revenue in future years. We are subject to various challenges and risks related to the management of global operations and international sales, including, but not limited to: o trade balance issues o economic and political conditions o health concerns o security concerns o inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions o local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices o changes in currency controls o differences in our ability to acquire and enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions o our ability to develop relationships with local suppliers o compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments o fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates o difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems o support required abroad for demanding manufacturing requirements Although we did not experience any materially adverse effects from our international operations as a result of these factors in the last year, one or more of these factors has had an adverse effect on us in the past and could adversely affect us in the future. Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China. The risk factors specifically associated with our manufacturing and other operations in China are discussed below. We have significantly expanded our manufacturing operations in China and, as a result, will be increasingly subject to risks inherent in doing business in China. In fiscal 2005, we began production in our assembly and test facility in Suzhou, China. The factory has steadily increased its output since that time. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in China's laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Our operations in China are subject to the economic and political situation there. We believe that our operations in China are in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that China's central or local governments will not impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures. Changes in the political environment or government policies could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations. In addition, a significant destabilization of relations between China and the United States could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations in China. The legal system of China relating to foreign trade is relatively new and continues to evolve. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be sporadic and implementation and interpretation of laws inconsistent. Moreover, there is a high degree of fragmentation among regulatory authorities resulting in uncertainties as to which authorities have jurisdiction over particular parties or transactions. We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. While we transact business primarily in U.S. dollars, and most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs and revenues is denominated in other currencies, such as the euro, the Japanese yen, pound sterling and certain other Asian currencies. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect the costs of goods sold and operating margins. We have a program to hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations, but our hedge program may not be fully effective in preventing foreign exchange losses. We may pursue acquisitions, investments and divestitures, which could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. We have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary to gain access to key technologies that we believe augment our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. Acquisitions and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may unfavorably impact our future financial performance. We may not be able to integrate and develop the technologies we acquire as expected. If the technology is not developed in a timely manner, we may be unsuccessful in penetrating target markets. Although we have not made any acquisitions since fiscal 2003, with any acquisition there are risks that future operating results may be unfavorably affected by acquisition related costs, including in-process R&D charges and incremental R&D spending. We have made and will continue to consider making strategic business divestitures. With any divestiture, there are risks that future operating results could be unfavorably impacted if targeted objectives, such as cost savings, are not achieved or if other business disruptions occur as a result of the divestiture or activities related to the divestiture. We are subject to litigation risks. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims. We are involved in a variety of routine legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. Further discussion of certain specific legal proceedings we are involved with is contained in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operation. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and unpredictable. An unfavorable resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations. Increasingly stringent environmental regulations restrict the amount and types of materials that can be released from our operations into the environment. While the cost of compliance with environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations historically, compliance with these and any future regulations could require significant capital investments in pollution control equipment or changes in the way we make our products. In addition, because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to risks of liabilities and claims, regardless of fault, resulting from accidental releases, including personal injury claims and civil and criminal fines. The following should also be considered: o we currently are remediating past contamination at some of our sites o we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at a number of Superfund sites where we (or our predecessors) disposed of wastes in the past o significant regulatory and public attention on the impact of semiconductor operations on the environment may result in more stringent regulations, further increasing our costs We may be impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. As a global company, our effective tax rate is dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. From time to time, we have received notices of tax assessments in various jurisdictions where we operate. We may receive future notices of assessments and the amounts of these assessments or our failure to favorably resolve such assessments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our business is global and world events and changes in the world economy could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. Terrorist activities worldwide and hostilities in and between nation states, including the continuing hostilities and insurgency in Iraq and the threat of future hostilities involving the U.S. and other countries, cause uncertainty on the overall state of the global economy. We have no assurance that the consequences from these events will not disrupt our operations in the U.S. or other regions of the world in the future. Although oil is not a major factor in our cost structure, continued wide fluctuations and large increases in oil prices may affect our future costs and revenues. As we have noted earlier, pandemic illness, and substantial natural, as well as geopolitical events, may affect our future costs, operating capabilities and revenues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 