risk factors are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies like National with broad international operations. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our stock is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE MERGER There are risks and uncertainties associated with the pending merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of TI. On April 4, 2011, we announced that we had signed the Merger Agreement, under which a wholly owned subsidiary of TI will, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions in the Merger Agreement, merge with and into National, and National will be the surviving corporation in the merger and a wholly owned subsidiary of TI. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the merger. For example: •various conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied or waived; •the merger may not be consummated, which among other things would cause our stock price to decline significantly, because the current stock price assumes the merger will be completed; •required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause TI to abandon the merger; we are still awaiting a regulatory decision in China; •the Merger Agreement may be terminated in circumstances that would require us to pay TI a termination fee of $200,000,000; •disruptions from the merger, whether completed or not, may harm our relationships with our employees, customers, suppliers or other business partners, and may result in a loss of or a substantial decrease in purchases by our major customers; and •pending the closing of the merger, the Merger Agreement restricts us from engaging in certain actions without TI's approval, which could prevent us from pursuing business opportunities that arise prior to the closing of the merger. In addition, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed merger, and many of these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether the merger is consummated. 13 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS RELATING TO GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS Significant deterioration in the global economy has reduced demand for our products, and our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected. As a result of the credit market crisis and other macro-economic challenges affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, customers have modified, delayed and cancelled plans to purchase our products. Consequently, we experienced a significant reduction in order rates during fiscal 2009. Although near-term market conditions have shown some improvement since then, our order rates have not returned to pre-crisis levels as business conditions have fluctuated. Global economic conditions remain uncertain, and could be adversely affected by the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, unrest in the Middle East, debt related actions taken or not taken by the U.S. Government and the European Union, and other geopolitical factors, and it is possible that current conditions could remain or worsen. A large portion of our revenues is dependent on the wireless handset market. The wireless handset market (including smart phones) is a significant source of our overall sales. Global economic difficulties have affected the sales of handsets and have adversely affected our revenues and profitability. This environment may continue even though we continue to develop new products to address new features and functionality in handsets. The worldwide handset market is large and future trends and other variables are difficult to predict. As a consumer-driven market, changes in the economy that adversely affect consumer demand for wireless handsets will impact demand for our products and adversely affect our business and operating results. Conditions inherent in the semiconductor industry may cause periodic fluctuations in our operating results. Rapid technological change and frequent introduction of new technology leading to more complex and integrated products characterize the semiconductor industry. The result is a cyclical environment with potentially short product life cycles, characterized by significant and rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Substantial capital and R&D investment are required to support products and manufacturing processes in the semiconductor industry, which amplify the effect of this cyclicality. As a result of this environment, we may experience rapid and significant fluctuations in our operating results. Market or other shifts in our product mix toward or away from higher margin products, including analog products, or reductions in our product margins may also have a significant impact on our operating results. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to compete successfully in our markets. Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense. Our major competitors include Analog Devices, Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products and TI. In some cases, we may also compete with our customers. Competition is based on design and quality of products, product performance, price and service, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS We operate in the global marketplace and face risks associated with worldwide operations. During fiscal 2011, approximately 77 percent of our sales were derived from customers in international markets. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant majority of our total revenue in future years. We have manufacturing facilities outside the United States in Scotland and Malaysia. We are subject to the economic and political risks inherent in 14 Table of Contents international operations, including the risks associated with ongoing uncertainties and political and economic instability in many countries around the world. In addition, the management of global operations subjects us to risks associated with legal and regulatory requirements, trade balance issues, currency controls, differences in local business and cultural factors, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Global disruptions and events could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. Terrorist activities worldwide and hostilities in and between nation states, including the continuing hostilities and violence in Iraq and Afghanistan, unrest in the Middle East and the threat of future hostilities involving the United States and other countries, may cause uncertainty and instability in the overall state of the global economy or in the industries in which we operate. We have no assurance that the consequences from these events will not disrupt our operations in either the United States or other regions of the world. Significant destabilization of relations between the United States and other countries where we operate or between the countries where we operate and other countries could result in restrictions and prohibitions in the countries where we operate. Continued increases in oil prices, as well as spreading subprime mortgage failures, could also affect our operations. Pandemic illnesses that spread globally and/or substantial natural disasters such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, as well as geopolitical events, may also affect our future costs, operating capabilities and revenues. We have significant manufacturing operations in Malaysia and, as a result, are subject to risks. We have significant assembly and test facilities in Melaka, Malaysia. We may be adversely affected by laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with all of these laws and regulations, that new, stricter laws or regulations will not be imposed or that interpretations of existing regulations will not be changed, each of which would require additional expenditures or result in other adverse effects. Changes in the political environment or government policies could result in laws or regulations that impact us adversely. A significant destabilization of relations between the United States and Malaysia or with either of these countries and other countries could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations in that country. We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. While we transact business primarily in U.S. dollars, and most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs and revenues is denominated in other currencies, such as the euro, the Japanese yen, pound sterling and certain other Asian currencies. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our net sales, costs of goods sold and operating margins. We have a program to hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations, but our hedging program may not be fully effective in preventing foreign exchange losses. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments. As a global company headquartered in the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and related product information. Compliance with these laws has limited our operations and sales in the past and could significantly limit them in the future. We maintain a compliance program but there are risks of noncompliance exposing us to significant legal liabilities. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments which may conflict with the laws and 15 Table of Contents regulations in the United States or other countries in which we do business. There is a risk that these restrictions and laws could significantly restrict our operations in the future. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO SALES AND OPERATIONS Our increased focus on revenue growth could adversely impact margins over time. Our current priority is to grow revenues at an annual rate greater than the rate of growth we have achieved in recent fiscal years. During those recent fiscal years our rate of revenue growth was consistently below that of our competitors, as we directed more of our efforts on maintaining and increasing our profit margins. By focusing on our relationship with our customers and delivering exceptional value to our customers we hope to increase sales while retaining our overall profitability. It is possible, however, that elevating our priority on increasing sales could come at the expense of gross margin. If a decrease in gross margin is not offset by sufficient increased revenue it would adversely affect our overall profitability. In addition, we may not achieve increased revenue growth rates. Our performance depends on the availability and cost of raw materials, utilities, critical manufacturing equipment and third-party manufacturing services. Our manufacturing processes and critical manufacturing equipment require that certain key raw materials and utilities be available. Limited or delayed access to or increases in the cost of these items, or the inability to implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment on a timely basis, could adversely affect our results of operations. We subcontract a portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of our integrated circuits. We depend on a limited number of third parties, most of whom are located outside of the United States, to perform these subcontracted functions. We do not have long-term contracts with all of these third parties. Reliance on these third parties involves risks, including possible shortages of capacity in periods of high demand. We have had difficulties in the past with suppliers and subcontractors and could experience them in the future, including as a result of weak global economic conditions or the pending merger, whether or not the merger is consummated. A substantial portion of our sales are made to distributors and the termination of an agreement with one or more distributors could result in a negative impact on our business. In fiscal 2011, our distributors accounted for approximately 71 percent of our sales, which includes approximately 9 percent of sales made through dairitens (fulfillment service providers) in Japan under local business practices. Two of our distributors together accounted for 36 percent of total sales. Distributors typically sell products from several of our competitors along with our products. A significant reduction of effort to sell our products, the termination of our relationship with one or more distributors or distributor cash flow problems or other financial difficulties could reduce our access to certain end-customers and adversely impact our ability to sell our products. The termination of the distributor relationship agreement with a specific distributor could also result in the return of our inventory held by the distributor. Our profit margins may vary over time. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of our inventory, and shifts in our product mix or strategy. Because we own most of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs is fixed, including costs associated with depreciation expense. In general, these costs do not decline proportionally with reductions in customer demand or utilization of our manufacturing capacity, nor do they increase proportionally as volume increases. Failure to maintain utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities or maintain the fixed costs associated with these facilities at current levels will result in higher average unit costs and lower gross margins. 16 Table of Contents We make forecasts of customer demand that may be inaccurate. Our ability to match inventory and production mix with the product mix needed to fill current orders and orders to be delivered in any given quarter may affect our ability to meet that quarter's revenue forecast. To be able to accommodate customer requests for shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture product based on customer forecasts. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. While we believe our relationships with our customers, combined with our understanding of the end markets we serve, provide us with the ability to make reliable forecasts, if we inaccurately forecast customer demand, it could result in inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins. We are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. We could be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expenses as we defend such claims or pay damage awards. In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur costs if we compensate the affected customer. We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. We may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one of our customers' products containing one of our devices. Any future costs or payments made in connection with warranty claims or product recalls could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. We may be harmed by natural disasters and other disruptions. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other disruptions. Our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. In the event of a major earthquake, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. The operations of our suppliers could also be subject to natural disasters and other disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. We use third party freight firms for nearly all of our shipments from vendors and from our wafer manufacturing facilities to assembly and test sites and for shipments to customers of our final product. This includes ground, sea and air freight. Any significant disruption of our freight shipments globally or in certain parts of the world, particularly where our operations are concentrated, would materially affect our operations. We maintain property and business interruption insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all costs associated with such disasters and disruptions. We may incur a loss in connection with the sale of, or we may be unable to sell, our manufacturing facility in Texas. In fiscal 2009, we announced the eventual closure of our wafer fabrication facility in Texas and have since ceased production activity in the facility. We are actively engaged in locating a buyer to purchase the manufacturing facility. In selling the property, we are faced with the inherent volatility in the industrial real estate market, which is a function of the supply and demand for industrial properties in the micro-market where the facility is located. Although we believe we will be able to sell the facility, this may not be the case or it may take longer than we currently expect. If we must incur additional costs to maintain the facility over a longer time frame than we currently expect, if we are forced to accept a lower price than we originally estimated, or if we are unable to locate a buyer for the facility, our operating results will be negatively affected. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, preventing the processing of transactions and reporting of financial results. They could also result in the unintentional disclosure of confidential information 17 Table of Contents about the company or with respect to our customers and employees. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may experience delays in implementing a new enterprise resource planning system. We began a significant initiative to transform National's mainframe application landscape with a large scale enterprise resource planning (ERP) implementation intended to reduce the risk associated with our existing mainframe systems, simplify our complex information technology landscape to reduce cost of ownership and increase flexibility for evolving business needs. This program will introduce risks to our business operations. For example, implementation of a new ERP system will require significant investment, re-engineering of many processes used to run our business, and the attention of many employees who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. The design and implementation of the new ERP system could also take longer than anticipated, which could result in delays in our ability to realize any anticipated benefits of the new ERP system, as well as additional costs and disruption to our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to attract or retain employees with skills necessary to remain competitive in our industry. Our continued success depends in part on the recruitment and retention of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel. Experienced personnel in the semiconductor industry, particularly in our targeted analog areas, are in high demand and competition for their skills is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully recruit and retain the key personnel we require. Our ability to retain and attract employees may be adversely affected by the pending merger. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO R&D, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LITIGATION We may experience delays in introducing new products or market acceptance of new products may be below our expectations. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries in which our primary customers operate. As our customers evolve and introduce new products, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by developing and introducing into the market new products that meet the needs of our customers. We are also directing efforts to develop new and different types of products to serve emerging mega trends such as energy efficiency. We believe that continued focused investment in research and development, especially the timely development, introduction and market acceptance of new products, is a key factor to successful growth and the ability to achieve strong financial performance. Successful development and introduction of these new products are critical to our ability to maintain a competitive position in the marketplace. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful in timely developing and introducing successful new products demanded by the market, or in achieving anticipated revenues from new products, and a failure to bring new products to market or achieve market success with them may harm our operating results. We also cannot assure you that products that may be developed in the future by our competitors will not render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Our products are dependent on the use of intellectual property that we need to protect. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies, and have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, trademarks, mask works and copyrights in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing 18 Table of Contents for such protection is appropriate. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for by us in some countries. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. In addition, we cannot assure you that: •the patents owned by us or numerous other patents which third parties license to us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies; or •any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all; or •our products will not be held to infringe patents of others. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors' rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our collaborators will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our research collaborations. In addition, we may not be able to enforce these agreements globally. Some of our technologies have been licensed on a non-exclusive basis from other companies, which may license such technologies to others, including our competitors. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents or intellectual property rights claimed by others. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technologies we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. The protection of our intellectual property is essential in preventing unauthorized third parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technologies. Despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately prevent misappropriation or improper use of our protected technologies. We are subject to litigation risks. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims. We are involved in a variety of routine legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. Further discussion of certain specific material legal proceedings in which we are involved is contained in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and unpredictable. An unfavorable resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR DEBT Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total long term debt at May 29, 2011 was $1.0 billion and it will have important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: •we will have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness; •increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; 19 Table of Contents •our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, under our multicurrency credit agreement with a bank, we are required to comply with certain restrictive covenants, conditions, and default provisions that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt or maintain compliance with the financial covenants of our multicurrency credit agreement due to current economic conditions or otherwise, we may take certain actions which require us to, among other things: •seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; •refinance, retire or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; •sell selected assets; •reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or • reduce or delay planned operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all, particularly if our credit rating is not strong. Difficulties in the credit markets may limit our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt as it becomes due. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies may adversely affect the liquidity and financial conditions of issuers. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO TAX AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS We may be affected by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. As a global company, our effective tax rate is dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and complex analyses and significant judgment are required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Moreover, future tax liabilities may change as a result of unpredictable changes to the tax laws in relevant jurisdictions. From time to time, we have received notices of tax assessments in various jurisdictions where we operate. We may receive future notices of assessments and the amounts of these assessments or our failure to favorably resolve such assessments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have significant amounts of deferred tax assets. The recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the enacted tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an 20 Table of Contents increase in our effective tax rate. Proposals and discussions in Congress and the Executive branch for new U.S. tax legislation, as well as in California and other states for new state tax legislation, could, if adopted, adversely affect our effective tax rate. A significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We were granted a tax holiday by the Malaysian government that is effective for a ten-year period that began in our fiscal 2010. Such tax holiday is contingent upon meeting certain minimum requirements either on an annual basis or over specified periods of time ranging from 5 to 7 years. These requirements relate to capital expenditures levels, statutory revenue realization and the maintenance of a skilled workforce in Malaysia. If we are unable to meet these requirements, our income in Malaysia would be subject to taxation by the Malaysian government and this would result in increasing our effective tax rate. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations. Increasingly stringent environmental regulations restrict the amount and types of materials that can be released from our operations into the environment. While the cost of compliance with environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations historically, compliance with these and any future regulations could require significant capital investments in pollution control equipment or changes in the way we make our products. In addition, because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to risks of liabilities and claims, regardless of fault, resulting from accidental releases, including personal injury claims and civil and criminal fines. The following should also be considered: •we currently are remediating past contamination at some of our sites; •we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at a number of Superfund sites where we (or our predecessors) disposed of wastes in the past; and •significant regulatory and public attention on the impact of semiconductor operations on the environment may result in more stringent regulations, further increasing our costs. For more information on environmental matters, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents 