ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are subject to interest rate risk. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, changes in interest rates, changes in the yield curve, changes in market risk spreads, and a prolonged inverted yield curve could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: · our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; · net interest rate spreads and net interest rate margins; · our ability to enter into instruments to hedge against interest rate risk; · the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and · the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. 13 Table of Contents Although management believes we have implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk. Our interest rate risk, liquidity, market value of securities and profitability are subject to risks associated with the performance of the leverage strategy. We implemented a leverage strategy in 1998 for the purpose of enhancing overall profitability by maximizing the use of our capital. Risks to our leverage strategy include reduced net interest margin and spread, adverse market value changes to the investment and mortgage-backed and related securities, incorrect modeling results due to the unpredictable nature of mortgage-backed securities prepayments, the length of interest rate cycles, and the slope of the interest rate yield curve. In addition, we may not be able to obtain wholesale funding to profitably and properly fund the leverage program. If our leverage strategy is flawed or poorly implemented, we may incur significant losses. See the section captioned “Leverage Strategy” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could result in losses and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, often loans are secured with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2006, approximately 59.0% of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of collateral and ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Furthermore, it is likely that, in a decreasing real estate market, we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values or to increase our allowance for loan losses, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We have a high concentration of loans directly related to the medical community in our market area, primarily in Smith and Gregg counties. A negative change adversely impacting the medical community, for any reason, could result in losses and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on the medical community. The primary source of repayment for loans in the medical community is cash flow from continuing operations. However, changes in the amount the government pays the medical community through the various government health insurance programs could adversely impact the medical community, which in turn could result in higher default rates by borrowers in the medical industry. Increased regulation of the medical community could also negatively impact profitability and cash flow in the medical community. It is likely that, should there be any significant adverse impact to the medical community, our profitability and financial condition could also be adversely impacted. 14 Table of Contents Our allowance for probable loan losses may be insufficient. We maintain an allowance for probable loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for probable loan losses charged to expense. This allowance represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for probable loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside our control, may require an increase in the allowance for probable loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for probable loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for probable loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for probable loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for probable loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loan Loss Experience and Allowance for Loan Losses” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for probable loan losses. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the State of Texas. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Texas and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Texas areas of Tyler, Longview, Lindale, Whitehouse, Chandler, Gresham, Athens, Palestine, Jacksonville, Bullard, Forney, Seven Points and Gun Barrel City. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services, as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have entered or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. · The ability to expand our market position. · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. · The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. · Customer satisfaction with our level of service. · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. Southside Bancshares, Inc., primarily through Southside Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While our policies and procedures are designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in “Item 1. Business” and “Note 13 - Shareholders’ Equity” in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which are located elsewhere in this report. 16 Table of Contents Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may implement new delivery systems or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new delivery systems and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue. Southside Bancshares, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Southside Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to Southside Bancshares, Inc. Also, Southside Bancshares, Inc.’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Southside Bank is unable to pay dividends to Southside Bancshares, Inc., Southside Bancshares, Inc. may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Southside Bank could have a material adverse effect on Southside Bancshares, Inc.’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in “Item 1. Business” and “Note 13 - Shareholders’ Equity” in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which are located elsewhere in this report. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. On September 4, 2003, we issued $20.6 million of floating rate junior subordinated debentures in connection with a $20.0 million trust preferred securities issuance by our subsidiary, Southside Statutory Trust III. Our junior subordinated debentures mature in September 2033. We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Our junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of common stock. 17 Table of Contents Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. While we have never made an acquisition, we occasionally investigate potential merger or acquisition partners that appear to be culturally similar, have experienced management and possess either significant or attractive market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; · difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and · potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. We occasionally evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits and synergies from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities we engage in can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, relationships in the communities we serve, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. We do not currently have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of our senior officers. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that we can prevent any such failures, interruptions or security breaches or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers and even if we implement such products and services, we may incur substantial costs in doing so. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect our market perception and products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. For example, during 2005, hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused extensive flooding and destruction along the coastal areas of the Gulf of Mexico. While the impact of these hurricanes did not significantly affect us, other severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, there can be no assurance of the effectiveness of such policies and procedures, and the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH SOUTHSIDE BANCSHARES, INC. COMMON STOCK Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; · recommendations by securities analysts; · operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; · news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; 19 Table of Contents · perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; · new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; · significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; · failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; · changes in government regulations; and · geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume is such that you are not assured liquidity with respect to transactions in our common stock. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include, among others, requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at shareholders’ meetings and staggered board elections. Any individual, acting alone or with other individuals, who is seeking to acquire, directly or indirectly, 10.0% or more of our outstanding common stock must comply with the Change in Bank Control Act, which requires prior notice to the Federal Reserve Board for any acquisition. Additionally, any entity that wants to acquire 5.0% or more of our outstanding common stock, or otherwise control us, may need to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. As a result, prospective investors in our common stock need to be aware of and comply with those requirements, to the extent applicable. 20 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH SOUTHSIDE BANCSHARES, INC.’S INDUSTRY The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 21 Table of Contents ITEM 