ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAn investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.16RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSWe are subject to an economic environment that continues to pose significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We continue to operate in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we could be affected by these events. Declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including unemployment and new job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, should we see a renewed national economic recession, the residual deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond those which are provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following consequences:•increases in loan delinquencies;•increases in nonperforming assets and foreclosures;•decreases in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our liquidity position;•decreases in the value of the collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers’ borrowing power;•decreases in the credit quality of our non-U.S. Government and non-U.S. agency investment securities, corporate and municipal securities;•an adverse or unfavorable resolution of the Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac receivership; and•decreases in the real estate values subject to ad-valorem taxes by municipalities that impact such municipalities’ ability to repay their debt, which could adversely affect our municipal loans or debt securities.Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.We continue to face market volatility, which could adversely impact our results of operations and access to capital.The capital and credit markets experienced volatility and disruption from 2008 to 2010. While volatility in, and disruption of, these markets no longer remain at unprecedented levels, any future escalated levels of market volatility and disruption could produce downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity without regard to an issuer’s underlying financial strength. If levels of market disruption and volatility worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our results of operations and financial condition, including our liquidity position.Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past several years, with falling home prices and increased foreclosures and high levels of unemployment, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors, primarily from 2008 to 2010 reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. In the past few years availability of credit has increased. Should conditions deteriorate the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk.Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest bearing 17liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, changes in interest rates, changes in the yield curve, changes in market risk spreads, or a prolonged inverted yield curve could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect:•our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits;•our ability to retain deposits in a rising rate environment;•net interest rate spreads and net interest rate margins;•our ability to enter into instruments to hedge against interest rate risk;•the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and•the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolio.If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk.We are subject to the risk that our U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) could prepay faster than we have projected.We have and continue to purchase MBS at significant premiums due to the low interest rate environment. Our prepayment assumptions take into account Bloomberg consensus speeds, current trends and past experience. On October 24, 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the “FHFA”) announced expanded initiatives to assist homeowners that might not otherwise have been able to qualify for a new mortgage to refinance their mortgage. The FHFA announced changes to the guidelines related to loan-to-value, appraisals, and certain fees, among other things, subject to a variety of qualifications and the extension of the end date for the Home Affordable Refinance Program (“HARP”) until December 31, 2013. It does not change the time period which these loans were originated, maintaining the requirement that the loans must have been guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac on or before May 31, 2009. These changes could cause MBS prepayments to significantly exceed our projections. If actual prepayments exceed our projections, the amortization expense associated with these MBS will increase, thereby decreasing our net income. The increase in amortization expense and the corresponding decrease in net income could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to credit quality risks and our credit policies may not be sufficient to avoid losses.We are subject to the risk of losses resulting from the failure of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to pay interest and principal amounts on their loans. Although we maintain credit policies and credit underwriting and monitoring and collection procedures, these policies and procedures may not prevent losses, particularly during periods in which the local, regional or national economy suffers a general decline. If borrowers fail to repay their loans, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.Our interest rate risk, liquidity, fair value of securities and profitability are subject to risks associated with the successful management of our balance sheet strategy.We implemented a balance sheet strategy for the purpose of enhancing overall profitability by maximizing the use of our capital. The effectiveness of our balance sheet strategy, and therefore our profitability, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including reduced net interest margin and spread, adverse fair value changes to the investment securities and U.S. agency MBS, adverse changes in the market liquidity of our investment securities and U.S. agency MBS, incorrect modeling results due to the unpredictable nature of MBS prepayments, the length of interest rate cycles and the slope of the interest rate yield curve. In addition, we may not be able to obtain wholesale funding to profitably and properly fund the balance sheet strategy. If our balance 18sheet strategy is flawed or poorly implemented, we may incur significant losses. See the section captioned “Balance Sheet Strategy” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a further decline in the real estate market, for any reason, could result in losses and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, often loans are secured with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2013, approximately 57.6% of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007 and continuing throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, there were well-publicized developments in the credit markets, beginning with a decline in the sub-prime mortgage lending market, which later extended to the markets for collateralized mortgage obligations, MBS and the lending markets generally. This decline has continued to result in restrictions in the resale markets during 2011 and 2012 for non-conforming loans and has had an adverse effect on retail mortgage lending operations in many markets. A further decline in the credit markets generally could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to extend credit or sell loans in the secondary market. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Furthermore, it is likely that, in a declining real estate market, we would be required to further increase our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values or to increase our allowance for loan losses, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted.We have a high concentration of loans directly related to the medical community in our market area, primarily in Smith and Gregg counties. A negative change adversely impacting the medical community, for any reason, could result in losses and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on the medical community. The primary source of repayment for loans in the medical community is cash flow from continuing operations. However, changes in the amount the government pays the medical community through the various government health insurance programs could adversely impact the medical community, which in turn could result in higher default rates by borrowers in the medical industry. Healthcare reform or increased regulation of the medical community could also negatively impact profitability and cash flow in the medical community. It is likely that, should there be any significant adverse impact to the medical community, our profitability and financial condition would also be adversely impacted.Our allowance for probable loan losses may be insufficient.We maintain an allowance for probable loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for probable loan losses charged to expense. This allowance represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that may exist within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for probable loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting the value of properties used as collateral for loans, problems affecting the credit of borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside our control, may require an increase in the allowance for probable loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for probable loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs (in accordance with GAAP), based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for probable loan losses, we may need additional provisions to increase the allowance for probable loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for probable loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loan Loss Experience and Allowance for Loan Losses” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for probable loan losses.19If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures, including internal control over financial reporting,we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on ourbusiness, results of operation and financial condition. In addition, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence inour financial reporting, which could harm the trading price of our common stock.Management regularly reviews and updates our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Based on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, management decided that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of that date due to the following control deficiency:•We did not adequately design interest income recognition controls for municipal securities purchased at a premium. As a result, we did not properly amortize the premium to the maturity of the security, but instead we amortized the premium to the earliest call date. The control deficiency resulted in an interest income recognition error for individual callable municipal securities purchased at a premium that required specific accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The error resulted in the restatement of the Company's quarterly financial information as of and for the quarters and year to date periods ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2013. Management has concluded that the identified control deficiency constitutes a material weakness.A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis.Subsequent to December 31, 2013, we enhanced our interest income recognition controls for callable municipal securities purchased at a premium. We will amortize all of our municipal securities purchased at a premium to the maturity date of the security. We believe our remediation efforts, when completed, will be sufficient to remediate the material weakness. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional control deficiencies or material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could result in us not being able to accurately report our financial results, prevent or detect fraud, or provide timely and reliable financial information pursuant to our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, it could cause our investors to lose confidence in the financial information we report, which could affect the trading price of our common stock.We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the State of Texas.Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Texas and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Texas areas of Tyler, Longview, Lindale, Whitehouse, Chandler, Gresham, Athens, Palestine, Jacksonville, Hawkins, Bullard, Forney, Seven Points, Gun Barrel City, Fort Worth, Austin and Arlington. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services, as well as the 20ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, plant or business closings or downsizing, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have entered or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, continued consolidation and recent trends in the credit and mortgage lending markets. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:•the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets;•the ability to expand our market position;•the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;•the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;•customer satisfaction with our level of service; and•industry and general economic trends.Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.From time to time, we may implement new delivery systems, such as internet banking, or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. In developing and marketing new delivery systems and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from our subsidiary for most of our revenue.Southside Bancshares, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiary, Southside Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Southside Bank, and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to Southside Bancshares, Inc. Also, Southside 21Bancshares, Inc.’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Southside Bank is unable to pay dividends to Southside Bancshares, Inc., Southside Bancshares, Inc. may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Southside Bank could have a material adverse effect on Southside Bancshares, Inc.’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in “Item 1. Business” and “Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.Funding to provide liquidity may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of Southside Bank is used to make loans and leases, to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the board of directors. Management and our asset liability committee regularly monitor the overall liquidity position of Southside Bank and the Company to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Management and our asset liability committee also establish policies and monitor guidelines to diversify Southside Bank’s funding sources to avoid concentrations in excess of board-approved policies in any one market source. Funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, noncore deposits, and short- and long-term debt. Southside Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) System, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets.We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include sales or securitizations of loans, our ability to acquire additional national market, noncore deposits, additional collateralized borrowings such as Federal Home Loan Bank advances, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Southside Bank also can borrow from the Federal Reserve’s discount window.We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but if there is an increase in volatility in the credit and liquidity markets similar to 2008, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, the cost of out-of-market deposits may exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market area, making them unattractive sources of funding; financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally; and, given previous downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising equity capital.If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital.Acquisitions and potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value.We occasionally evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and fair values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits and synergies from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities we engage in can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, relationships in the communities we serve, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, there is no guarantee that these officers will remain employed with the Company.Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, 22loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that we can prevent any such failures, interruptions or security breaches or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We continually encounter technological change.The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers and even if we implement such products and services, we may incur substantial costs in doing so. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Severe weather, natural disasters, climate change, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.Severe weather, natural disasters, climate change, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. For example, because of our location and the location of the market areas we serve, severe weather is more likely than in other areas of the country. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, there can be no assurance of the effectiveness of such policies and procedures, and the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE BANKING INDUSTRYWe are subject or may become subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.Southside Bancshares, Inc., primarily through Southside Bank, and certain nonbank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy and growth, among other things. The statutory and regulatory framework under which we operate will change substantially over the next several years as the result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, as implemented through the Bureau, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, mortgage lending practices, registration of investment advisors and changes among bank regulatory authorities. To date, there are a number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have not taken effect and many important provisions require implementing rules to become effective. In addition to these developments, Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit deposit fees and other types of fees we charge, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. While we cannot predict the impact caused by the Dodd-Frank Act and forthcoming implementing rules, or the impact of any additional regulatory changes that may arise out of the current financial and economic environment, any regulatory changes or increased regulatory scrutiny could increase costs directly related to complying with new regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While our policies and procedures are designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in “Item 1. Business” and “Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.23We may become subject to increased regulatory capital requirements.The capital requirements applicable to Southside Bancshares, Inc. and Southside Bank are subject to change as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the international regulatory capital initiative known as Basel III and any other future government actions. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates Tier 1 capital treatment for most trust preferred securities after a three-year phase-in period that began January 1, 2013 for institutions that exceed $15 billion in assets. Furthermore, in December 2010, the BCBS finalized the Basel III regulatory capital standards. The standards, which mandate a higher minimum level of common equity to be held by financial institutions, along with a capital conservation buffer to withstand future periods of stress, are subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United States. During 2012, U.S. regulators proposed Basel III regulatory capital standards that were to be phased in beginning January 2013. During the comment period, U.S. regulators received over 1,000 comment letters. As a result U.S. regulators were asked to testify before Congress. U.S. regulators agreed to reconsider some of the proposed Basel III standards and issued final Basel III rules during 2013. The rules require various increased levels of capital over a phase-in period based on asset size. The impact on banks below $10 billion was less onerous and the Company believes it will be able to meet the new capital guidelines, however complying with any higher capital requirements mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act and new capital standards brought about by Basel III implementation may affect our operations, including our asset portfolios and financial performance.The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions.Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.24We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, defending claims is costly and diverts management’s attention, and if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect our market perception and products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCKOur stock price can be volatile.Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:•actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;•recommendations by securities analysts;•operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;•news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;•perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;•new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;•significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;•failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;•changes in government regulations; and•geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies.Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume is low, and you are not assured liquidity with respect to transactions in our common stock. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall.The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders.On September 4, 2003, we issued $20.6 million of floating rate junior subordinated debentures in connection with a $20.0 million trust preferred securities issuance by our subsidiary, Southside Statutory Trust III. These junior subordinated debentures mature in September 2033. On August 8 and 10, 2007, we issued $23.2 million and $12.9 million, respectively, of five-year fixed rate converting to floating rate thereafter, junior subordinated debentures in connection with $22.5 million and $12.5 million, respectively, trust preferred securities issuances by our subsidiaries Southside Statutory Trust IV and V, respectively. Trust IV matures October 2037 and Trust V matures September 2037. As part of the acquisition of FWBS on October 10, 2007, we assumed 25$3.6 million of floating rate junior subordinated debentures issued to Magnolia Trust Company I in connection with $3.5 million of trust preferred securities issued in 2005 that matures in 2035.We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Our junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of common stock.An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment.Provisions of our articles of incorporation bylaws, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party.Our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include, among others, requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at shareholders’ meetings and staggered board elections.Any individual, acting alone or with other individuals, who are seeking to acquire, directly or indirectly, 10.0% or more of our outstanding common stock must comply with the Change in Bank Control Act, which requires prior notice to the Federal Reserve for any acquisition. Additionally, any entity that wants to acquire 5.0% or more of our outstanding common stock, or otherwise control us, may need to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA of 1956, as amended. As a result, prospective investors in our common stock need to be aware of and comply with those requirements, to the extent applicable.We may issue additional securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage.In certain situations, our board of directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued stock. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions. Any such issuance would dilute the ownership of current holders of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone26