Item 1A. Risk Factors Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute “forward looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this annual report and our other public filings. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that we cannot predict. These risks include the following: Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in future periods and are not predictable and, as a result, we may fail to meet expectations of investors and analysts, causing our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and we anticipate our future operating results will continue to fluctuate due to many factors, some of which are largely beyond our control. Consequently, our prior operating results should not necessarily be considered indicative of future operating results. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate, include, but are not limited to, the following: • the tendency to realize a substantial percentage of our revenue in the last weeks, or even days, of each quarter; • the potential for delays or deferrals of customer orders; • information technology spending trends; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ budget and purchase cycles and the absence of long-term customer purchase commitments; • the size, complexity and timing of individual transactions; • the length of our sales cycle; • the level of software sales and price competition; • the timing of new software introductions and software enhancements by us and our competitors; • costs associated with licensing third-party software; • general domestic and international economic and political conditions; • seasonality in technology purchases, and the periodic shifting of IT spending priorities; • a significant portion of our expenses is personnel related and fixed and cannot be adjusted quickly in response to actual or anticipated revenue trends; and • changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants and changes in tax accounting principles. The decision to implement our products is subject to each customer’s resources and budget availability. Our quarterly sales generally include a mix of medium sized orders, along with several large individual orders, and as a result, the loss or delay of an individual large order could have a significant impact on our quarterly operating results and revenue. Our operating expenses are based on projected revenue trends and are generally fixed. Therefore, any shortfall from projected revenue may cause significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result of these factors, revenue and operating results for any quarter are subject to fluctuations and are not predictable with any significant degree of accuracy. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Moreover, such factors could cause our operating results in a given quarter to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In either case, the price of our common stock could decline materially. 12 The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we cannot ensure that we will be able to continue to compete effectively, which could result in lost market share and reduced revenue. The markets we serve are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify with the consolidation of the ECM market. We have multiple competitors and there may be future competitors, some of which have or may have substantially greater sales, marketing, development and financial resources. As a consequence, our present or future competitors may be able to develop software products comparable or superior to those offered by us, offer lower priced products or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. We anticipate significant future consolidation as the software industry matures. Large well-established software firms like Oracle, Microsoft, IBM and EMC either have entered or may enter the market by adding content management features to their existing suite of products. In addition, large hardware or infrastructure firms may enter our market by acquiring our competitors to pursue revenue growth opportunities. This may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. Many of our competitors are also our distribution channel partners. For example, IBM competes with us in the content management market, but also implements our software solutions through its IBM Global Services business unit. Our customers may view this type of vertical integration of software development and system integration capabilities as a key competitive advantage. In order to be successful in the future, we must respond to technological change, customer requirements and competitors’ current software products and innovations. We may not be able to compete effectively in our target markets. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of the markets we serve. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share that could result in reduced revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is derived internationally and we are subject to many risks internationally, which could put our revenue at risk. Historically, we have derived approximately 30% of our total revenue from international sales through our worldwide network of subsidiaries and channel partners. This contribution percentage will fluctuate quarter to quarter. International business is subject to certain risks including, but not limited to, the following: • political and economic instability; • tariffs and trade barriers; • varying technical standards and requirements for localized products; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries; • difficulties in staffing and maintaining foreign operations; • difficulties in managing foreign partners; • multiple overlapping tax regimes; • currency restrictions and currency exchange fluctuations; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, regulations and treaties; • spreading our management resources to cover multiple countries; or • longer collection cycles and higher risk of non-collection and bad debt expense. Any of these factors could reduce the amount of revenue we realize from our international operations in the future. 13 The market for content management solutions may not grow as we anticipate, and may decline, and our products may not gain acceptance within this market, resulting in reduced revenue. Our future financial performance will depend primarily on the continued growth of the markets for our software products and services as well as our ability to capture a larger share of those markets. Our primary product offerings address the enterprise content management solutions market. This market is developing rapidly, and while we believe this market is growing and will continue to grow, particularly as new regulations are introduced that focus on controlling the flow of information within organizations to ensure compliance with disclosure and other obligations, these markets may not continue to grow as we anticipate, or our products and solutions may not gain acceptance within these markets. If the markets we serve, particularly the market for enterprise content management solutions, fail to grow or grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, or if our products and solutions do not gain acceptance within these markets, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. We must develop and sell new products to keep up with rapid technological change in order to achieve future revenue growth and profitability. The market for our software and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to continue to sell products will be dependent upon our ability to continue to enhance our existing software and services offerings, develop and introduce, in a timely manner, new software products incorporating technological advances and respond to customer requirements. Introduction of new and enhanced products is achieved through in-house and third-party development and through licensing of third-party products. We may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products or new versions of our products that respond to technological developments, evolving industry standards or changing customer requirements. We may also experience technical difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, sale and implementation of these products and enhancements. In the past, we have experienced delays in the release dates of enhancements and new releases to our products and we may experience significant future delays in product introduction. From time to time, our competitors or we may announce new software products, capabilities or technologies that have the potential to replace or shorten the lifecycles of our existing software products. Announcements of currently planned or other new software products may cause customers to delay their purchasing decisions in anticipation of such software products, and such delays could have a material adverse effect on our sales. In addition, our ability to generate revenues from the sale of customer support, education and professional services is substantially dependent on our ability to generate new sales of our software products. We are dependent upon customers concentrated in a small number of industries. A significant decline in one of those industries could result in reduced revenue. Our customers are concentrated in the insurance, financial services, government, manufacturing, telecommunications and utilities industries. We may not be successful in obtaining significant new customers in different industry segments and we expect that sales of our products to customers in a limited number of industry segments will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue in the future. If we are not successful at obtaining significant new customers or if a small number of customers cancel or delay their orders for our products, then we could fail to meet our revenue objectives. Consolidation within the financial services and insurance industry could further reduce our customers and future prospects. As many of our significant customers are concentrated in a small number of industry segments, if business conditions in one of those industry segments decline, then orders for our products from that segment may decrease, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results and cause the price of our common stock to fall. We must devote substantial resources to software development, and we may not realize revenue from our development efforts for a substantial period of time. Introducing new products that rapidly address changing market demands requires a continued high level of investment in research and development. We expect to invest approximately 19% of annual revenue in research and development efforts in the near term. The majority of our investment in new and existing market opportunities is made prior to our ability to generate revenue from these new opportunities. These investments of money and resources are made based on our prediction of new products and services that we anticipate the market needs and will accept. As a result, our operating results could be adversely affected if our predictions of market demand are incorrect and we are not able to realize the level of revenues we expect from new products or if that revenue is significantly delayed due to revenue recognition rules that require new products be tested in the market to validate pricing and acceptance. 14 We are increasing our use of third-party software developers and may have difficulty enforcing or managing our agreements with them, which could delay new product introductions and reduce revenue. To help manage costs, we have contracted with third-party software development companies overseas, particularly in India and China, where labor costs are lower, to perform a portion of our software development of specific products and software localization work. As a result, we are dependent on these third-party developers for continued development and support of several of our key products. If any of these third-party developers were to terminate their relationship with us, our efforts to develop new products and improve existing products could be significantly delayed and our ability to provide product support to our customers could be impaired. In addition, since the majority of these third-party developers are located outside the United States, our ability to enforce our agreements with them may be limited. We must retain and attract key executives and personnel who are essential to our business, which could result in increased personnel expenses. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management team, as well as other marketing, sales, technical and operational personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We do not have employment agreements with any of the members of our United States-based senior management team. We do have employment contracts with members of our international management team that commit them to a notification period. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, sales, product development and operational personnel and consultants. There is competition for such personnel; particularly software developers, professional services consultants and other technical personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel in the future. If our products contain errors or performance problems, we could incur unplanned expenses and delays that could result in reduced revenue, lower profits, and harmful publicity. Software, services and products, as complex as those we sell, are susceptible to errors or performance problems, especially when first introduced or deployed. Our software products are often intended for use in applications that are critical to a customer’s business. As a result, our customers may rely on the effective performance of our software to a greater extent than the market for software products generally. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential customers, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that are discovered only after a product has been installed and used by customers. Errors or performance problems could cause delays in product introduction and shipments or could require design modifications, either of which could lead to a loss in or delay of revenue. These problems could cause a diversion of development resources, harm our reputation or result in increased service or warranty costs, or require the payment of monetary damages. While our license agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that such limitation of liability provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. The limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. Although product liability claims to date have been immaterial, the sale and support of our products entails the risk of such claims, which could be substantial in light of our customers’ use of such products in mission-critical applications. If a claimant brings a product liability claim against us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if our software is not at fault, we could suffer material expense and material diversion of management time in defending any such lawsuits. Acquisitions of companies or technologies may result in disruptions to our business and diversion of management attention, which could cause our financial performance to suffer. As part of our business strategy, we frequently evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities. We anticipate that our future growth may depend in part on our ability to identify and acquire complementary businesses, technologies or product lines. Acquisitions involve significant risks and could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our ongoing business. Additionally, such acquisitions may include numerous other risks, including, but not limited to, the following: 15 • difficulties in the integration of the operations, products and personnel of the acquired companies; • the incurrence of debt; • liabilities and risks that are not known or identifiable at the time of the acquisition; • difficulties in retaining the acquired company’s customer base; • valuations of acquired assets or businesses that are less than expected; or • the potential loss of key personnel of the acquired company. If we fail to successfully manage future acquisitions or fully integrate future acquired businesses, products or technologies with our existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of the acquisitions and such acquisitions may harm our business and financial results. Our business is highly automated for the execution of marketing, selling and technical support functions, and natural disasters that disable these systems could result in a disruption in our ability to transact business. We depend on the integrity of our information systems network connectivity to perform these business functions. While mitigating measures have been put in place, significant business interruption could occur at our Costa Mesa headquarters facility due to a natural disaster such as an earthquake, or acts of terrorism, which could cause a prolonged power outage and the inability for key personnel to perform their job functions. Protection of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is limited, which could result in the use of our technology by competitors or other third parties. There is risk of third-party claims of infringement, which could expose us to litigation and other costs. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our principal products. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights in our software products. Our existing or future copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents or other intellectual property rights may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or a commercial advantage to us. Intellectual property rights often cannot be enforced without engaging in litigation, which involves the devotion of significant resources, can divert management attention and has uncertain outcomes. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any inability to protect our intellectual property may harm our business and competitive position. We may, from time to time, be notified that we are infringing certain patent or intellectual property rights of others, which could expose us to litigation and other costs. While there are no material actions currently pending against us for infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties, it is possible that third parties may initiate infringement actions against us in the future. Combinations of technology acquired through past or future acquisitions and our technology will create new software products and technology that also may give rise to claims of infringement. Infringement actions can result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, regardless of the merits of the actions. If we were found to infringe upon the rights of others, we may not be able to redesign the infringing products to avoid further infringement or obtain necessary licenses to use the infringed rights on acceptable terms, or at all. Additionally, significant damages for past infringement could be assessed or future litigation relative to any such licenses or usage could occur. An adverse disposition of any claims or the advent of litigation arising out of any claims of infringement could result in significant costs or reduce our ability to market any affected products. We depend on certain strategic relationships in order to broaden the number of third-party platforms with which our products are compatible and the loss of these relationships could harm our business. In order to broaden the number of third-party platforms with which our products are compatible and thereby broaden the market opportunities for our products, we have established strategic relationships with a number of software and hardware platform vendors, including companies such as IBM, BEA Systems Inc., Hewlett-Packard Development Company LP, Network Appliance, Inc., Sun MicroSystems and Hitachi Data Systems. We cannot assure that these companies will not reduce or discontinue their relationships with, or support of, FileNet and our products. If we fail to maintain these relationships, or to establish new relationships in the future, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 We currently license certain software from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. Also, certain of our products include publicly available software pursuant to open source license agreements. We would be unable to sell these products if we do not maintain these licenses, which would result in reduced revenue. In the past, we have had difficulty renewing certain licenses. The failure to continue to maintain these licenses would prohibit us from selling certain products until replacement functionality could be developed, licensed or acquired. We cannot assure that such third parties will remain in business, that they will continue to support their software products or that their software products will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. The loss or inability to maintain any of these software licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions in software shipments until equivalent software can be developed, licensed, or acquired and integrated. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition transaction involving one of these third parties, certain restrictions could be imposed on our business that had not been imposed prior to the transaction. This could adversely affect our sales. Several of our license agreements contain minimum royalty payments. If sales were not sufficient to meet these minimums, our royalty expense would increase without the benefit of revenue. This could adversely affect our software margins. In addition to our direct sales force, we depend on relationships with systems integrators, independent software vendors, and value added resellers to sell our products and services. The loss of a large strategic partner could affect our ability to sell in a specific segment of the market. Our channel partners may not remain in business or continue to promote or sell our products or services. We compete with some of our channel partners through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products. The loss or inability to maintain these channel partner relationships, or our failure to establish new channel partner relationships in the future, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, causing fluctuations in the market price of our stock, which would impact shareholder value. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to the following factors, among others, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in quarterly operating results; • fluctuations in our order levels; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • key management changes; • changes in accounting regulations; • changes in joint marketing and development programs; • developments relating to patents or other intellectual property rights or disputes; • developments in our relationships with our customers, resellers and suppliers; • our announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • general conditions in the software and computer industries; • fluctuations in general stock market prices and volume, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of Internet and software companies; • acquisitions in the past have been primarily cash-based transactions. Future acquisitions may include stock, which could dilute earnings per share and possibly reduce shareholder value; • we may not be able to hedge all foreign exchange risk due to the significant fluctuation of the Euro to the US Dollar and our ability to predict the mix of sales orders denominated in the Euro at the end of each fiscal quarter; • reduced stock value may restrict our access to equity financing to fund further acquisitions using stock; • industry analyst opinions may increase our stock price volatility and reduce shareholder value; and • other general economic and political conditions. In recent years, the stock market, in general, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies in industries similar to ours. Some of these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market fluctuations may decrease the market price of our common stock in the future. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 