ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As a financial institution, we are subject to a number of types of risks. Although we undertake a variety of efforts to manage and control those risks, many of the risks are outside of our control. Among the risks we face are the following: • credit risk: the risk that loan customers or other parties will be unable to perform their contractual obligations; • market risk: the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation; • liquidity risk: the risk that Horizon or the Bank will have insufficient cash or access to cash to meet its operating needs; and • operational risk: the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events. Investors should consider carefully these risks and the other risks and uncertainties described below. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results which could cause our stock price to decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are not, however, the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently believe are not material, could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our financial performance may be adversely impacted if we are unable to continue to grow our commercial and consumer loan portfolios, obtain low-cost funds and compete with other providers of financial services. Our ability to maintain our history of record earnings year after year will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to grow our commercial and consumer loan portfolios and obtain low-cost funds. During 2004 and 2005, we focused on increasing commercial and consumer loans, and we intend to continue to emphasize and grow these types of loans in the foreseeable future. This represented a shift in our emphasis from 2002 and 2003 when we focused on mortgage banking services, which generated a large portion of our income during those years. 13 We have also funded our growth with low-cost consumer deposits, and our ability to sustain our growth will depend in part on our continued success in attracting such deposits or finding other sources of low-cost funds. Another factor in maintaining our history of record earnings will be our ability to expand our scope of available financial services to our customers in an increasingly competitive environment. In addition to other banks, our competitors include credit unions, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. Competition is intense in most of our markets. We compete on price and service with our competitors. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-banks, greater technological developments in the industry, and banking reform. Our commercial and consumer loans expose us to increased credit risks. We have a large percentage of commercial and consumer loans. Commercial loans generally have greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans also typically have much larger loan balances than residential mortgage loans. Consumer loans generally involve greater risk than residential mortgage loans because they are unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate in value. Although we undertake a variety of underwriting, monitoring and reserving protections with respect to these types of loans, there can be no guarantee that we will not suffer unexpected losses. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments reprice, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. The impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin, and therefore, decrease our profitability. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. An economic slowdown in Northwestern Indiana and Southwestern Michigan could affect our business. Our primary market area for deposits and loans consists of LaPorte and Porter Counties in Northwestern Indiana and Berrien County in Southwestern Michigan. An economic slowdown in these areas could hurt our business. Possible consequences of such a downturn could include the following: • increases in loan delinquencies and foreclosures; • declines in the value of real estate and other collateral for loans; and • a decline in the demand for our products and services. 14 We are subject to increased regulatory capital requirements. As a condition to the approval of our acquisition of Alliance Financial Corporation in 2005, the OCC, our primary regulator, required us to maintain regulatory capital ratios at 100 basis points above the well capitalized minimums. This could affect our ability to compete with other financial institutions not required to maintain these higher capital levels by limiting our ability to grow assets. The OCC has not told us when these increased capital requirements will be lifted, but as of December 31, 2005, we exceeded these heightened capital requirements. If we are required to change the classification of our mortgage warehouse loans for capital purposes, this could restrict the capital we have available for further growth. We purchase home mortgages from mortgage companies under warehouse agreements whereby the mortgage company has the right to repurchase the loan. We have historically classified these loans as “home mortgage loans” for call report and regulatory capital purposes as opposed to treating them as “other loans.” During the course of a routine, periodic examination by bank regulatory authorities commenced in February 2003, the examination personnel raised the issue of whether our mortgage warehouse loans should be treated as “other loans” for call report purposes. We submitted a position statement to the regulators in 2003 substantiating our classification of these loans and had various follow-up conversations with them thereafter. The regulatory authorities have never required us to change the classification of these loans, and we believe the matter is resolved; although the regulatory authorities have never told us this matter is settled. If we are required to change our treatment of these loans, it will change our calculations for risk-based capital and reduce our risk-based capital ratios which may restrict our ability to grow our assets. Because our stock is thinly traded, it may be more difficult for you to sell your shares or buy additional shares when you desire to do so and the price may be volatile. Although our common stock has been listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market since December 2001, our common stock is thinly traded. Average daily trading volume during 2005 was only 2,914 shares. The prices of thinly traded stocks, such as ours, are typically more volatile than stocks traded in a large, active public market and can be more easily impacted by sales or purchases of large blocks of stock. Thinly traded stocks are also less liquid, and because of the low volume of trades, you may be unable to sell your shares when you desire to do so. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not have to increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. Our mortgage warehouse and indirect lending operations are subject to a higher fraud risk than our other lending operations. We buy loans originated by mortgage bankers and automobile dealers. Because we must rely on the mortgage bankers and automobile dealers in making and documenting these loans, there is an increased risk of fraud to us on the part of the third-party originators and the underlying borrowers. In order to guard against this increased risk, we perform investigations on the loan originators we do business with, and we review the loan files and loan documents we purchase to attempt to detect any irregularities or legal noncompliance. However, there is no guarantee that our procedures will detect all cases of fraud or legal noncompliance. 15 We are subject to extensive regulation and changes in laws, regulations and policies could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal agencies. See “Supervision and Regulation” in the description of our Business in Item 1 above for detailed information on the laws and regulations to which we are subject. Changes in applicable laws, regulations or regulator policies could materially affect our business. The likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. Our inability to continue to accurately process large volumes of transactions could adversely impact our business and financial results. In the normal course of business, we process large volumes of transactions. If systems of internal control should fail to work as expected, if systems are used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could result. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide us with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. From time to time, losses from operational risk may occur, including the effects of operational errors. While we continually monitor and improve the system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate-wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not have to increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 