ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Horizon’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes currently affect Horizon are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere are not the only ones facing Horizon. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair Horizon’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, Horizon’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of Horizon’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business As a financial institution, we are subject to a number of risks relating to our day-to-day business. As a financial institution, we are subject to a number of risks relating to our daily business. Although we undertake a variety of efforts to manage and control those risks, many of the risks are outside of our control. Among the risks we face are the following: • Credit risk: the risk that loan customers or other parties will be unable to perform their contractual obligations; • Market risk: the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operation; • Liquidity risk: the risk that Horizon or the Bank will have insufficient cash or access to cash to meet its operating needs; • Operational risk: the risk of loss resulting from fraud, inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events; • Economic risk: the risk that the economy in the Company’s markets could decline further resulting in increased unemployment, decreased real estate values and increased loan charge-offs; and 19 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) • Compliance risk: the risk of additional action by Horizon’s regulators or additional regulation could hinder the Company’s ability to do business profitably. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption since 2008. This presents financial institutions with unprecedented circumstances and challenges which in some cases have resulted in large declines in the fair values of investments and other assets, constraints on liquidity and significant credit quality problems, including severe volatility in the valuation of real estate and other collateral supporting loans. Our financial statements have been prepared using values and information currently available to us, but given this volatility, the values of assets and liabilities recorded in the financial statements could change rapidly, resulting in material future adjustments in asset values and the allowance for loan losses, which could negatively impact our ability to meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth such as we began experiencing in the latter half of 2008 and which continued throughout 2010. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we are taking steps to decrease and limit our exposure to residential construction and land development loans and home equity loans, we nonetheless retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job loss, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the national economic recession or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures; demand for our products and services may decline; deposits may decrease, which would adversely impact our liquidity position; and collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Our financial performance may be adversely impacted if we are unable to continue to grow our commercial and consumer loan portfolios, obtain low-cost funds and compete with other providers of financial services. Our ability to maintain our history of record earnings year after year will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to grow our loan portfolios and obtain low-cost funds. For the past five years, we focused on increasing consumer loans, and we intend to continue to emphasize and grow consumer, as well as commercial loans in the foreseeable future. This represented a shift in our emphasis from prior years when we focused on mortgage banking services, which generated a large portion of our income during those years. We have also funded our growth with low-cost consumer deposits, and our ability to sustain our growth will depend in part on our continued success in attracting and retaining such deposits or finding other sources of low-cost funds. Another factor in maintaining our history of record earnings will be our ability to expand our scope of available financial services to our customers in an increasingly competitive environment. In addition to other banks, our competitors include credit unions, securities brokers and dealers, mortgage brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. Competition is intense in most of our markets. We compete on price and service with our competitors. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-banks, greater technological developments in the industry, and banking reform. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering 20 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) interest on demand deposits to compete for customers. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer if any. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial and consumer loans expose us to increased credit risks. We have a large percentage of commercial and consumer loans. Commercial loans generally have greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans also typically have much larger loan balances than residential mortgage loans. Consumer loans generally involve greater risk than residential mortgage loans because they are unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate in value. Although we undertake a variety of underwriting, monitoring and reserving protections with respect to these types of loans, there can be no guarantee that we will not suffer unexpected losses, and recently, we have experienced an increase in the default rates in our consumer loan portfolio, particularly relating to indirect auto loans. Our holdings of construction, land and home equity loans, may pose more credit risk than other types of mortgage loans. In light of current economic conditions, construction loans, loans secured by commercial real estate and home equity loans are considered more risky than other types of mortgage loans. Due to the disruptions in credit and housing markets, real estate values have decreased in most areas of the U.S., and many of the developers to whom we lend experienced a decline in sales of new homes from their projects. As a result of this market disruption, some of our land and construction loans have become non-performing as developers are unable to build and sell homes in volumes large enough for orderly repayment of loans and as other owners of such real estate (including homeowners) were unable to keep up with their payments. We believe we have established appropriate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of these loan portfolios. However, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, and ultimately result in a material level of charge-offs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and capital. The allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We periodically review the allowance for loan and lease losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values, and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and non-performing assets. There is no certainty that the allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, or if the allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments re-price, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. The impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin, and therefore, decrease our profitability. 21 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) Changes in interest rates also could affect loan volume. For instance, an increase in interest rates could cause a decrease in the demand for mortgage loans (and other loans), which could result in a significant decline in our revenue stream. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. A continued economic slowdown in Northwestern Indiana and Southwestern Michigan could affect our business. Our primary market area for deposits and loans consists of LaPorte and Porter Counties in Northwestern Indiana and Berrien County in Southwestern Michigan. During 2010, unemployment rates increased or remained at or near record levels in our primary market area, resulting in a rise in consumer delinquencies and bankruptcy filings. The continued economic slowdown could hurt our business. The possible consequences of such a continued downturn could include the following: • increases in loan delinquencies and foreclosures; • declines in the value of real estate and other collateral for loans; • an increase in loans charged off; • a decline in the demand for our products and services; • an increase in non-accrual loans and other real estate owned. The loss of key members of our senior management team could affect our ability to operate effectively. We depend heavily on the services of our existing senior management team, particularly our CEO Craig M. Dwight, to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we continue to grow and expand our business and our locations, products and services, we will increasingly need to rely on Mr. Dwight’s experience, judgment and expertise as well as that of the other members of our senior management team and will also need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel at all levels. Competition for such personnel is intense in our geographic market areas. In addition, as a TARP recipient, the ARRA limits the amount of incentive compensation that can be paid to certain executives. The effect could be to limit our ability to attract and retain senior management in the future. If we are unable to attract and retain talented people, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of any senior management personnel, particularly Mr. Dwight or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund acquisitions and to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments, regulatory capital requirements and business needs, particularly if our asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Although we are currently, and have historically been, “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes, our capital levels are not far in excess of the well capitalized threshold, and we have been required to maintain increased levels of capital in the past in connection with certain acquisitions. Additionally, we periodically explore acquisition opportunities with other financial institutions, some of which are in distressed financial condition. Any future acquisition, particularly the acquisition of a significantly troubled institution or an institution of comparable size to us, may require us to raise additional capital in order to obtain regulatory approval and/or to remain well capitalized. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of 22 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. We cannot guarantee that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Moreover, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations and may restrict our ability to grow. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We periodically evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. We generally seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company, • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company, • Potential disruption to our business, • Potential diversion of our management’s time and attention away from day-to-day operations, • The possible loss of key employees, business and customers of the target company, • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company, and • Potential problems in integrating the target company’s systems, customers and employees with ours. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving the payment of cash or the issuance of our debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. To the extent we were to issue additional common shares in any such transaction, our current shareholders would be diluted and such an issuance may have the effect of decreasing our stock price, perhaps significantly. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not have to increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. Our mortgage warehouse and indirect lending operations are subject to a higher fraud risk than our other lending operations. We buy loans originated by mortgage bankers and automobile dealers. Because we must rely on the mortgage bankers and automobile dealers in making and documenting these loans, there is an increased risk of fraud to us on the part of the third-party originators and the underlying borrowers. In order to guard against this increased risk, we perform investigations on the loan originators with whom we do business, and we review the loan files and loan documents we purchase to attempt to detect any irregularities or legal noncompliance. However, there is no guarantee that our procedures will detect all cases of fraud or legal noncompliance. 23 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) Our mortgage lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to resell mortgages or experience other problems with this process. Currently, we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate. The profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and to sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, we are dependent upon the existence of an active secondary market and our ability to profitably sell loans into that market. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae (the “Agencies”) and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Some of the largest participants in the secondary market, including the Agencies, are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law. Any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of such government-sponsored enterprises could, in turn, adversely effect our operations. In September 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. government. Although to date, the conservatorship has not had a significant or adverse effect on our operations, it is currently unclear whether further changes would significantly and adversely affect our operations. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by the Agencies and other institutional and non-institutional investors. Our ability to remain eligible may also depend on having an acceptable peer-relative delinquency ratio for Federal Housing Authority (“FHA”) and maintaining a delinquency rate with respect to Ginnie Mae pools that are below Ginnie Mae guidelines. In the case of Ginnie Mae pools, we have repurchased delinquent loans from them in the past to maintain compliance with the minimum required delinquency ratios. Although these loans are typically insured as to principal by the FHA, such repurchases increase our capital and liquidity needs, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital or liquidity to continue to purchase such loans out of the Ginnie Mae pools if required to do so. Any significant impairment of our eligibility with any of the Agencies could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity which could result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations. The profitability of participating in specific programs may vary depending on a number of factors, including our administrative costs of originating and purchasing qualifying loans and our costs of meeting such criteria. We are exposed to intangible asset risk; specifically, our goodwill may become impaired. As of December 31, 2010, we had $8.7 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates could result in the impairment of goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could be materially adverse to our operating results and financial position. For further discussion, see Notes 1 and 9, “Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and “Intangible Assets”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financial problems at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to borrow monies in the future. Horizon owns stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (“FHLBI”) with a carrying value of $11.4 million (as of December 31, 2010) in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The FHLBI stock also entitles us to dividends from the FHLBI. Horizon recognized dividend income of approximately $217,000 and $315,000 in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Due to various financial difficulties in the financial institution industry in the last few years, including the write-down of various mortgage-backed securities held by the FHLBI (which lowered its regulatory capital levels), the FHLBI temporarily 24 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) suspended dividends during the first quarter of 2009. When the dividends were finally paid, they were reduced from the dividend rate paid for the previous quarter. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBI, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for the FHLBI stock we hold, we believe that there is a risk that the investment could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect Horizon’s results of operations and financial condition. If the FHLBI were to cease operations, or if we were required to write-off the investment in the FHLBI, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, Horizon’s total current borrowing capacity with the FHLBI is currently $302.9 million, and we have outstanding borrowings of $88.8 million with the FHLBI. Generally, the loan terms from the FHLBI are better than the terms Horizon can receive from other sources making it cheaper to borrow money from the FHLBI. Continued and additional financial difficulties at the FHLBI (or the complete failure of the FHLBI) could reduce or eliminate our additional borrowing capacity with the FHLBI which could force us to borrow money from other sources. Such other monies may not be available when we need them or, more likely, will be available at higher interest rates and on less advantageous terms, which will impact our net income and could impact our ability to grow. The TARP lending goals may not be attainable and may adversely affect our business and asset quality. Congress and the bank regulators have encouraged recipients of TARP capital, including Horizon, to use such capital to make more loans, and it may not be possible to safely, soundly and profitably make sufficient loans to creditworthy persons in the current economy to satisfy such goals. Congressional demands for additional lending by TARP capital recipients, and regulatory demands for demonstrating and reporting such lending are increasing. On November 12, 2008, the bank regulatory agencies issued a statement encouraging banks to, among other things, “lend prudently and responsibly to creditworthy borrowers” and to “work with borrowers to preserve homeownership and avoid preventable foreclosures.” Horizon continues to lend (and have been able to expand our lending using the funds Horizon received through the Capital Purchase Program) and to report our lending to the Treasury. The future demands for additional lending, however, are unclear and uncertain, and Horizon could be forced to make loans that involve risks or terms that Horizon would not otherwise find acceptable or in our shareholders’ best interest. Such loans could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may be in conflict with bank regulations and requirements as to liquidity and capital. The profitability of funding such loans using deposits may also be adversely affected by increased FDIC insurance premiums. We are subject to extensive regulation and changes in laws, regulations and policies that could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal agencies. See “Supervision and Regulation” in the description of our Business in Part I of this Form 10-K for detailed information on the laws and regulations to which we are subject. As apparent from the recent Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA), Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 legislation, changes in applicable laws, regulations or regulator policies can materially affect our business. The likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. In addition to the EESA, TARP, ARRA and Dodd-Frank mentioned above, federal and state governments could pass additional legislation responsive to current credit conditions. As an example, Horizon Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, Horizon Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits its ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. The new laws described above, together with additional actions announced by the Treasury Department (Treasury) and other regulatory agencies continue to develop. It is not clear at this time what impact, EESA, TARP, Dodd-Frank other liquidity and funding initiatives of the Treasury and other bank regulatory agencies that have been previously announced, and any additional programs that may be initiated in the future, will have on the financial markets and the financial services industry. The extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced could continue to affect 25 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) the U.S. banking industry and the broader U.S. and global economies, which will have an effect on all financial institutions, including Horizon. Our inability to continue to accurately process large volumes of transactions could adversely impact our business and financial results. In the normal course of business, we process large volumes of transactions. If systems of internal control should fail to work as expected, if systems are used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could result. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems includes the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that are designed to provide us with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures also exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed. From time to time, losses from operational risk may occur, including the effects of operational errors. While we continually monitor and improve the system of internal controls, data processing systems and corporate-wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately or timely addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological changes. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the 26 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock at times or at prices you find attractive. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, our stock price constantly changes, and we expect our stock price to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our stock price is impacted by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • increases in loan losses, non-performing loans and other real estate owned; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of new products, strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • actual or anticipated sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • our past and future dividend practice; • our creditworthiness; • interest rates; • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing; • developments with respect to financial institutions generally; and • economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory, congressional or judicial events that affect us or the financial markets. In addition the stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies and particularly those in the financial services and banking sector, including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, notwithstanding our operating results. Because our stock is thinly traded, it may be more difficult for you to sell your shares or buy additional shares when you desire to do so and the price may be volatile. Although our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ stock market since December 2001, our common stock is thinly traded. The prices of thinly traded stocks, such as ours, are typically more volatile than stocks traded in a large, active public market and can be more easily impacted by sales or purchases of large blocks of stock. Thinly traded stocks are also less liquid, and because of the low volume of trades, you may be unable to sell your shares when you desire to do so. Because of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Horizon is subject to various restrictions on dividends, share repurchases and executive compensation. Horizon is a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, which is a component program of TARP. Pursuant to the agreements Horizon entered into as part of the Capital Purchase Program, Horizon is unable to declare dividend payments on our common shares if Horizon is in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares Horizon issued to the Treasury. Further, Horizon is not permitted to increase dividends on our common shares above the amount 27 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) of the last quarterly cash dividend per common share declared prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.17 per common share) without the Treasury’s approval until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. The consent of the Treasury generally is required for us to make any share repurchase (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. Further, our common shares may not be repurchased if Horizon is in arrears on the payment of Series A Preferred Share dividends to the Treasury. As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, Horizon must also comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA and the standards established by the Secretary of the Treasury under the ARRA, for so long as the Treasury holds any of our securities or upon exercise of the Warrant Horizon issued to the Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program, excluding any period during which the Treasury holds only the Warrant (the “TARP Period”). Effective June 15, 2009, the Secretary of the Treasury established executive compensation and corporate governance standards applicable to TARP recipients, including Horizon, by promulgating an Interim Final Rule under 31 C.F.R. Part 30 (the “Interim Final Rule”). The ARRA and the Interim Final Rule impose limitations on our executive compensation practices by: • Limiting the deductibility, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of compensation paid to any of our Senior Executive Officers (as defined in the Interim Final Rule) to $500,000 per year; • Prohibiting the payment or accrual of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation to our five most highly-compensated employees, except in the form and under the limited circumstances permitted by the Interim Final Rule; • Prohibiting the payment of golden parachute payments (as defined in the Interim Final Rule) to our Senior Executive Officers or any of our next five most highly-compensated employees upon a departure from Horizon or due to a change in control of Horizon, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; • Requiring Horizon to “clawback” any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a Senior Executive Officer or any of our next 20 most highly-compensated employees if the payment was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; • Prohibiting Horizon from maintaining any employee compensation plan (as defined in the Interim Final Rule) that would encourage the manipulation of our reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of our employees; • Prohibiting Horizon from maintaining compensation plans and arrangements for our Senior Executive Officers that encourage our Senior Executive Officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of Horizon; • Prohibiting Horizon from providing (formally or informally) “gross-ups” to any of our Senior Executive Officers or our next 20 most highly-compensated employees; and • Subjecting any bonus, retention award or other compensation paid before February 17, 2009 to our Senior Executive Officers or our next 20 most highly-compensated employees to retroactive review by the Treasury to determine whether any such payments were inconsistent with the purposes of TARP or otherwise contrary to the public interest. The ARRA and the Interim Final Rule also required that the Horizon Board of Directors adopt a Company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures,” which Horizon has done. Although Horizon was already in compliance with many of these standards and limitations prior to its participation in the Capital Purchase Program and the subsequent adoption of the ARRA and the Interim Final Rule, these standards and limitations decrease (in some cases substantially) Horizon’s discretion over certain decisions regarding its dividend practices and how it compensates its executive officers and other employees. The limitations on compensation may have the effect of limiting Horizon’s ability to attract and retain executive officers and other employees which will be detrimental to our long-term success. 28 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) Our ability to repurchase the preferred shares issued to the Treasury (and therefore obtain relief from the limitations and restrictions of TARP and ARRA) is limited. Any redemption of the securities sold to the Treasury requires prior Federal Reserve and Treasury approval. Based on recently issued Federal Reserve guidelines, institutions seeking to redeem the preferred stock issued pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program must demonstrate an ability to access the long-term debt markets without reliance on the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, successfully demonstrate access to public equity markets and meet a number of additional requirements and considerations before they can redeem any securities sold to the Treasury. On November 10, 2010, Horizon repurchased 6,250 of the 25,000 outstanding Series A Preferred Shares held by the Treasury. Horizon paid $6.25 million to repurchase the preferred shares along with the accrued dividend for the shares repurchased. Horizon has also applied for a $19 million loan under the recently implemented Small Business Loan Fund program (the “SBLF”), and if its application is approved, Horizon plans to repurchase the remaining $18.5 million in Series A Preferred Shares from the Treasury with those proceeds. Enacted into law as part of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, the SBLF is a $30 billion fund that encourages lending to small businesses by providing Tier 1 capital to qualified community banks with assets of less than $10 billion. The SBLF program provides an option for community banks to refinance preferred stock issued to the Treasury through the Capital Purchase Program, and the SBLF program does not impose many of the restrictions that Horizon is currently subject to under TARP. However, there is no guarantee that Horizon’s application under SBLF will be approved and Horizon will be able to redeem the remaining securities held by the Treasury. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, our by-laws, and Indiana law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Indiana law contain provisions which have certain anti-takeover effects. While the purpose of these provisions is to strengthen the negotiating position of the board in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, the overall effects of these provisions may be to render more difficult or discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a larger block of our shares, and the removal of incumbent directors and key management. Our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board, which means that only one-third of our board can be replaced by shareholders at any annual meeting. Our articles also provide that our directors may only be removed without cause by shareholders owning 70% or more of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, our articles provide that only our board of directors, and not our shareholders, may adopt, alter, amend and repeal our by-laws. Our articles also preempt Indiana law with respect to business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of our common stock and provide that such transactions are subject to independent and super-majority shareholder approval requirements unless certain pricing and board pre-approval requirements are satisfied. Our by-laws do not permit cumulative voting of shareholders in the election of directors, allowing the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares to control the election of all our directors, and our directors are elected by plurality (not majority) voting. Our by-laws also establish detailed procedures that shareholders must follow if they desire to nominate directors for election or otherwise present issues for consideration at a shareholders’ meeting. We also have a mandatory retirement age for directors. These and other provisions of our governing documents and Indiana law are intended to provide the board of directors with the negotiating leverage to achieve a more favorable outcome for our shareholders in the event of an offer for the company. However, there is no assurance that these same anti-takeover provisions could not have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. 29 Table of Contents Horizon Bancorp (Table dollars in thousands except per share data) ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 