ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business As a financial institution, we are subject to a number of risks relating to our day-to-day business. As a financial institution, we are subject to a number of risks relating to our daily business. Although we undertake a variety of efforts to manage and control those risks, many of the risks are outside of our control. Among the risks we face are the following: • credit risk: the risk that loan customers or other parties will be unable to perform their contractual obligations; • market risk: the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation; • liquidity risk: the risk that Horizon or the Bank will have insufficient cash or access to cash to meet its operating needs; and • operational risk: the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or external events. • economic risk: the risk that the economy in our markets could decline further resulting in increased unemployment, decreased real estate values and increased loan charge-offs. • compliance risk: The risk of additional action by Horizon’s regulators or additional regulation could hinder our ability to do business profitably. Investors should consider carefully these risks and the other risks and uncertainties described below. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results which could cause our stock price to decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are not, however, the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently believe are not material, could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results 18 Table of Contents The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. This presents financial institutions with unprecedented circumstances and challenges which in some cases have resulted in large declines in the fair values of investments and other assets, constraints on liquidity and significant credit quality problems, including severe volatility in the valuation of real estate and other collateral supporting loans. Our financial statements have been prepared using values and information currently available to us, but given this volatility, the values of assets and liabilities recorded in the financial statements could change rapidly, resulting in material future adjustments in asset values and the allowance for loan losses, which could negatively impact our ability to meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth such as we experienced in the latter half of 2008 and which has continued into 2009. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we are taking steps to decrease and limit our exposure to residential construction and land development loans and home equity loans, we nonetheless retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job loss, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the national economic recession or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; deposits may decrease, which would adversely impact our liquidity position; and collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Our financial performance may be adversely impacted if we are unable to continue to grow our commercial and consumer loan portfolios, obtain low-cost funds and compete with other providers of financial services. Our ability to maintain our history of record earnings year after year will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to grow our loan portfolios and obtain low-cost funds. For the past three years, we focused on increasing consumer loans, and we intend to continue to emphasize and grow consumer, as well as commercial loans in the foreseeable future. This represented a shift in our emphasis from 2002 and 2003 when we focused on mortgage banking services, which generated a large portion of our income during those years. We have also funded our growth with low-cost consumer deposits, and our ability to sustain our growth will depend in part on our continued success in attracting and retaining such deposits or finding other sources of low-cost funds. Another factor in maintaining our history of record earnings will be our ability to expand our scope of available financial services to our customers in an increasingly competitive environment. In addition to other banks, our competitors include credit unions, securities brokers and dealers, mortgage brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. Competition is intense in most of our markets. We compete on price and service with our competitors. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-banks, greater technological developments in the industry, and banking reform. 19 Table of Contents Our commercial and consumer loans expose us to increased credit risks. We have a large percentage of commercial and consumer loans. Commercial loans generally have greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans also typically have much larger loan balances than residential mortgage loans. Consumer loans generally involve greater risk than residential mortgage loans because they are unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate in value. Although we undertake a variety of underwriting, monitoring and reserving protections with respect to these types of loans, there can be no guarantee that we will not suffer unexpected losses, and recently, we have experienced an increase in the default rates in our consumer loan portfolio, particularly relating to indirect auto loans. Our holdings of construction, land and home equity loans, may pose more credit risk than other types of mortgage loans. In light of current economic conditions, construction loans, loans secured by commercial real estate and home equity loans are considered more risky than other types of mortgage loans. Due to the disruptions in credit and housing markets, real estate values have decreased in most areas of the U.S., and many of the developers to whom we lend experienced a decline in sales of new homes from their projects. As a result of this market disruption, some of our land and construction loans have become non-performing as developers are unable to build and sell homes in volumes large enough for orderly repayment of loans and as other owners of such real estate (including homeowners) were unable to keep up with their payments. We believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of these loan portfolios. However, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, and ultimately result in a material level of charge-offs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and capital. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments re-price, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. The impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin, and therefore, decrease our profitability. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. 20 Table of Contents An economic slowdown in Northwestern Indiana and Southwestern Michigan could affect our business. Our primary market area for deposits and loans consists of LaPorte and Porter Counties in Northwestern Indiana and Berrien County in Southwestern Michigan. An economic slowdown, which could cause a rise in unemployment and a decline in real estate values in our market areas, could hurt our business. Possible consequences of such a downturn could include the following: • increases in loan delinquencies and foreclosures; • declines in the value of real estate and other collateral for loans; • increase in loans charged off; • a decline in the demand for our products and services; • increase in non-accrual loans and other real estate owned. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future which will have an adverse effect on our future earnings. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of financial institutions have increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio to 1.01% as of June 30, 2008, 18 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC released a five-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC announced the imposition of a special assessment and changes to assessment rates, to the risk-based assessment system that will take effect beginning April 1, 2009, and to the restoration plan. The FDIC adopted an interim rule that imposes a special assessment of 10 basis points as of June 30, 2009, which is to be collected on September 30, 2009. Assuming that deposit levels remain constant, we anticipate that the special assessment for the Bank would total approximately $779,000. The FDIC’s interim rule also provides for the imposition of additional special assessments of up to 10 basis points if necessary. Comments on the interim rule are due within 30 days of publication in the Federal Register. Under the new assessment system, banks in the best risk category will pay from 12 cents to 16 cents per $100 of insured deposits. The FDIC also announced an amendment to the restoration plan to extend the period of the plan from five to seven years. As a member institution of the FDIC, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Insured depository institutions that were in existence on December 31, 1996, and paid assessments prior to that date (or their successors) were entitled to a one-time credit against future assessments based on their past contributions to the BIF or SAIF. In 2006, the Bank received a one-time credit of $457,534 against future assessments. Of our initial credit, $313,911 was utilized in 2007, which reduced our FDIC expense to $99,000. Our insurance premiums for 2008 increased significantly and totaled $546,000 after utilizing our remaining credit of $143,623 in the first quarter of 2008. 21 Table of Contents Financial problems at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis may adversely affect our ability to borrow monies in the future and our income. Horizon owns $11.0 million of stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (“FHLBI”) and has outstanding borrowings of over $177 million with the FHLBI. The FHLBI stock entitles us to dividends from the FHLBI. Horizon recognized dividend income of approximately $476 thousand and $520 thousand in 2007 and 2008, respectively. Due to various financial difficulties in the financial institution industry in 2008, including the write-down of various mortgage backed securities held by the FHLBI (which lowered its regulatory capital levels), the FHLBI initially deferred the declaration of a fourth quarter dividend pending a review of private-label mortgage-backed securities for other-than-temporary impairment. Although the deferred dividend has now been paid, continued and additional financial difficulties at the FHLBI could further reduce or eliminate the dividends we receive from the FHLBI. Horizon’s total borrowing capacity with the FHLBI is currently $244 million. Generally, the loan terms from the FHLBI are better than the terms Horizon can receive from other sources making it cheaper to borrow money from the FHLBI. Continued and additional financial difficulties at the FHLBI could reduce or eliminate our additional borrowing capacity with the FHLBI which could force us to borrow money from other sources. Such other monies may not be available when we need them or, more likely, will be available at higher interest rates and on less advantageous terms, which will impact our net income and could impact our ability to grow. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not have to increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. Our mortgage warehouse and indirect lending operations are subject to a higher fraud risk than our other lending operations. We buy loans originated by mortgage bankers and automobile dealers. Because we must rely on the mortgage bankers and automobile dealers in making and documenting these loans, there is an increased risk of fraud to us on the part of the third-party originators and the underlying borrowers. In order to guard against this increased risk, we perform investigations on the loan originators with whom we do business, and we review the loan files and loan documents we purchase to attempt to detect any irregularities or legal noncompliance. However, there is no guarantee that our procedures will detect all cases of fraud or legal noncompliance. We are subject to extensive regulation and changes in laws, regulations and policies could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal agencies. See “Supervision and Regulation” in the description of our Business in Part I of this Form 10-K for detailed information on the laws and regulations to which we are subject. As apparent from the recent Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA) and Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) legislation, changes in applicable laws, regulations or regulator policies can materially affect our business. The likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. 22 Table of Contents In addition to the EESA and TARP legislation mentioned above, federal and state governments could pass additional legislation responsive to current credit conditions. As an example, Horizon Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, Horizon Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits its ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. The new laws described above, together with additional actions announced by the U.S. Treasury Department (Treasury) and other regulatory agencies continue to develop. It is not clear at this time what impact, EESA, TARP, other liquidity and funding initiatives of the Treasury and other bank regulatory agencies that have been previously announced, and any additional programs that may be initiated in the future, will have on the financial markets and the financial services industry. The extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced could continue to effect the U.S. banking industry and the broader U.S. and global economies, which will have an affect on all financial institutions, including Horizon. Our inability to continue to accurately process large volumes of transactions could adversely impact our business and financial results. In the normal course of business, we process large volumes of transactions. If systems of internal control should fail to work as expected, if systems are used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could result. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems includes the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that are designed to provide us with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures also exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed. From time to time, losses from operational risk may occur, including the effects of operational errors. While we continually monitor and improve the system of internal controls, data processing systems and corporate-wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock at times or at prices you find attractive. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, our stock price constantly changes (sometimes dramatically), and we expect our stock price to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our stock price is impacted by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • increase in loan losses, non-performing loans and other real estate owned; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of new products, strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • actual or anticipated sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • our past and future dividend practice; • our creditworthiness; • interest rates; • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing; • developments with respect to financial institutions generally; and • economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory, congressional or judicial events that affect us or the financial markets. In addition the stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies and particularly those in the financial services and banking sector, including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, notwithstanding our operating results. Our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect the value of our common stock and the rights of our common stockholders. The terms of the preferred stock Horizon issued under the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program could reduce investment returns to Horizon’s common stockholders by restricting dividends, diluting existing stockholders’ ownership interests, and restricting capital management practices. Without the prior consent of the Treasury, Horizon will be prohibited from increasing its common stock dividends for the first three years while the Treasury holds the preferred stock. 24 Table of Contents Also, the preferred stock requires quarterly dividends to be paid at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by Horizon. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash Horizon otherwise has available to pay dividends on its common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. Finally, Horizon will be prohibited from continuing to pay dividends on its common stock unless it has fully paid all required dividends on the preferred stock issued to the Treasury. Although Horizon fully expects to be able to pay all required dividends on the preferred stock (and to continue to pay dividends on its common stock at current levels), there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so in the future. Because our stock is thinly traded, it may be more difficult for you to sell your shares or buy additional shares when you desire to do so and the price may be volatile. Although our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ stock market since December 2001, our common stock is thinly traded. The prices of thinly traded stocks, such as ours, are typically more volatile than stocks traded in a large, active public market and can be more easily impacted by sales or purchases of large blocks of stock. Thinly traded stocks are also less liquid, and because of the low volume of trades, you may be unable to sell your shares when you desire to do so. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, our by-laws, and Indiana law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Indiana law contain provisions which have certain anti-takeover effects. While the purpose of these provisions is to strengthen the negotiating position of the board in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, the overall effects of these provisions may be to render more difficult or discourage a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a larger block of our shares, and the removal of incumbent directors and key management. Our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board, which means that only one-third of our board can be replaced by shareholders at any annual meeting. Our articles also provide that our directors may only be removed without cause by shareholders owning 70% or more of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, our articles provide that only our board of directors, and not our shareholders, may adopt, alter, amend and repeal our by-laws. Our articles also preempt Indiana law with respect to business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of our common stock and provide that such transactions are subject to independent and super-majority shareholder approval requirements unless certain pricing and board pre-approval requirements are satisfied. Our by-laws do not permit cumulative voting of shareholders in the election of directors, allowing the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares to control the election of all our directors, and our directors are elected by plurality (not majority) voting. Our by-laws also establish detailed procedures that shareholders must follow if they desire to nominate directors for election or otherwise present issues for consideration at a shareholders’ meeting. We also have a mandatory retirement age for directors. These and other provisions of our governing documents and Indiana law are intended to provide the board of directors with the negotiating leverage to achieve a more favorable outcome for our shareholders in the event of an offer for the company. However, there is no assurance that these same anti-takeover provisions could not have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 