Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”). Many of the following important factors have been discussed in our prior filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to the other information in this Report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual results of operations for fiscal 2006 and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. 1. Dependence on Senior Management. Our four senior management officials have over 94 years combined experience with us. Although we have attempted to develop additional management capabilities, the loss of one or more of the senior executives could have a material adverse effect on us. 6 Table of Contents 2. Competition. The casual dining segment of the restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, food quality, location, and employees, including restaurant managers. Many of our competitors are larger in size, have greater financial and other resources, and have longer operating histories. 3. Restaurant Industry Changes. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer tastes and attitudes, economic conditions, traffic patterns and changes, and other factors, which requires regular changes in the operation of restaurants to remain competitive. There is a risk that we will not effectively adapt to changes in the industry. 4. Cost of Doing Business. The restaurant business is subject to sudden cost changes, particularly for food, energy, labor and insurance. We may not be able to recover cost increases by increasing prices for our menu items. 5. Legal. We may be exposed to various tort and other claims including notably liability claims resulting from the sale of alcoholic beverages. While we currently maintain insurance for such claims, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate or available in the future. An uninsured or excess claim could have a material adverse effect on us. 6. Government Regulation. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive government regulations relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages, and sanitation, fire and building codes. Changes in regulations or the suspension or inability to renew any of the related licenses and permits could adversely affect our operations. Also, government actions affecting minimum wages, payroll tax rates, and mandated benefits could adversely affect operating results. 7. Franchising. We intend to expand the franchising of the Max Erma’s concept. Failure to properly select, train, and supervise franchisees could have a detrimental effect on the overall reputation and results of operations of the restaurants owned by us. 8. Unfavorable Publicity. Adverse publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operations at one or a limited number of our restaurants or franchisee’s restaurants could have material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9. Acts of God, Terrorism. Our business could be materially adversely affected by acts of God, including extremely harsh weather or natural disasters, and by terrorist acts such as the events of September 11, 2001. 7 Table of Contents 10. Consumer Perceptions of Food Safety. Our business could be materially adversely affected by consumer perceptions of food safety in the United States or in the market areas in which we operate, whether such perceptions are based on fact or not and whether such perceptions are caused by acts of terrorism or other events. 11. Leverage; Interest Rate Risk. Our business is relatively highly leveraged, resulting in long term indebtedness (including current maturities) of approximately $31.1 million as of October 29, 2006, $24.1 million of which represents the balance due under our revolving credit agreement and bears interest at variable rates. A one-percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates could increase or decrease our pre-tax income by approximately $241,000. A change in interest rates will likely have a significant impact on our earnings. In addition, as a result of our substantial leverage, we are restricted by loan covenants that may impact our ability to grow in the future. 12. Utilization of FICA Tax on Tips Credit. We have recorded a deferred tax asset of $4,170,000 for unused FICA Tax on Tips Credit. The credits expire from 2023 through 2026. To utilize the credits, we must return to a continued level of profitability. If we do not return to sustained profitability, we may not be able to recognize the tax benefit of future credits and could be forced to write off all or a portion of the existing deferred tax asset associated with credits previously earned. 13. Bank Covenants. We have attained waivers and/or amendments of certain loan covenant violations under our revolving credit agreement over the last three quarters of 2005 and the first, second and fourth quarters of 2006. While we have a very good relationship with our lenders, there can be no assurance that they will continue to waive covenant violations or make further amendments to our credit agreement. To assure compliance with our loan covenants, we must return to profitability. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 