Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”). Many of the following important factors have been discussed in our prior filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to the other information in this Report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual results of operations for fiscal 2008 and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. 1. Dependence on Senior Management. Two of our three senior management officials have over 47 years combined experience with us. The third senior management official joined us in September 2007, but has over 30 years of industry experience. Although we have attempted to develop additional management capabilities, the loss of one or more of these senior executives could have a material adverse effect on operation of our business or the quality of restaurant operations which could affect future sales. 2. Competition. The casual dining segment of the restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, food quality, location, and employees, including restaurant managers. Many of our competitors are larger in size, have greater financial and other resources, and have longer operating histories. Typically, increased competition has a negative effect on a specific restaurant’s sales. 7 3. Restaurant Industry Changes. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer tastes and attitudes, economic conditions, traffic patterns and changes, and other factors, which requires regular changes in the operation of restaurants to remain competitive. There is a risk that we will not effectively adapt to changes in the industry, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively impact restaurant sales. 4. Cost of Doing Business. The restaurant business is subject to sudden cost changes, particularly for food, energy, labor and insurance. We may not be able to recover cost increases by increasing prices for our menu items, which could increase cost of sales as a percentage of revenues. 5. Legal. We may be exposed to various tort and other claims, including, notably, liability claims resulting from the sale of alcoholic beverages. While we currently maintain insurance for such claims, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate or available in the future. An uninsured or excess claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 6. Government Regulation. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive government regulations relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages, and sanitation, fire and building codes. Changes in regulations or the suspension or inability to renew any of the related licenses and permits could force a restaurant to cease operations, which would result in operating losses during such period. Also, government actions affecting minimum wages, payroll tax rates, and mandated benefits could adversely affect operating results by increasing the related operating expense. 7. Franchising. We intend to expand the franchising of the Max Erma’s concept. Failure to properly select, train, and supervise franchisees could have a detrimental effect on the overall reputation and results of operations of the restaurants owned by us. The effect of this could be to negatively impact both Company-owned and franchised restaurants’ sales and the ability to continue franchising. 8. Unfavorable Publicity. Adverse publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operations at one or a limited number of our restaurants or any franchisee’s restaurants could have material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9. Acts of God, Terrorism. Our business could be materially adversely affected by acts of God, including extremely harsh weather or natural disasters, and by terrorist acts such as the events of September 11, 2001. Sales could be negatively impacted during such periods. 10. Consumer Perceptions of Food Safety. Our business and sales could be materially adversely affected by consumer perceptions of food safety in the United States or in the market areas in which we operate, whether such perceptions are based on fact or not and whether such perceptions are caused by acts of terrorism or other events. 11. Leverage; Interest Rate Risk. Our business is significantly leveraged, resulting in long term indebtedness (including current maturities) of approximately $29.8 million as of October 28, 2007, $22.8 million of which represents the balance due under our revolving credit agreement and bears interest at variable rates. We cannot be sure that continued debt financing will be available to us in the future or that any financing will be available 8 on favorable terms. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, will depend on our future performance and successful execution of our business strategy. A one-percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates could increase or decrease our pre-tax income by approximately $228,000. A change in interest rates will likely have a significant impact on our earnings. 12. Utilization of FICA Tax on Tips Credit. We have recorded a deferred tax asset of $4.5 million for unused FICA Tax on Tips Credit net of a $1.3 million valuation allowance recorded at October 28, 2007. The credits expire from 2023 through 2027. To utilize the credits, we must return to a continued level of profitability. If we do not return to sustained profitability, we may not be able to recognize the tax benefit of future credits and could be required to write off all or a portion of the remaining deferred tax asset associated with credits previously earned, both of which could negatively impact future net income. 13. Bank Covenants. We have obtained waivers and/or amendments of certain bank loan covenant violations under our revolving credit agreement over the last three quarters of 2005, the first, second and fourth quarters of 2006, the third quarter of 2007. To avoid anticipated covenant violations during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into an agreement with our lenders which amended our financial covenants. The agreement also prohibits the opening of additional Company-owned restaurants and limits capital expenditures through March 31, 2009 or until our Company is re-capitalized or sold. During the term of the agreement, we are exploring all strategic options which include the raising of equity capital, the sale of our Company or the sale of assets. There can be no assurances that this will happen. We believe that we will return to a sufficient level of profitability and cash flow to sustain our business. However, if we are unable to raise equity capital, sell our Company, or sell assets to raise capital, the ability to grow our Company may be limited to additional franchised restaurants. 14. NASDAQ Listing. On December 13, 2007, we received a NASDAQ Deficiency Letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market informing us that we had not maintained a minimum market value of publicly held shares (“MVPHS”) of $5,000,000 as required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(2). We have been granted until March 12, 2008, to regain compliance if the MVPHS of our common stock is $5,000,000 or greater for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. If compliance is not demonstrated by March 12, 2008, the NASDAQ Staff will provide written notification that our common stock will be delisted, which could limit our ability to raise additional capital as needed in the future. As an alternative, we may apply for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We currently meet all the qualifications for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. 15. Asset Valuation Risk. We make a significant investment in each restaurant we own. If a restaurant does not perform well financially, we may have to recognize impairment reserves under applicable accounting rules. Also, if we decide to close a restaurant, we are likely to have a substantial impairment charge as we can recover very little of our investment in a restaurant upon closing and sometimes are required to expend money to restore the leased building back to its original condition. Both the impairment of assets and expense associated with closing restaurants would have a negative effect on net income. 9 16. Risk of Default on Indebtedness. If we do not satisfy the terms of our debt agreements which include covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and specify certain financial performance criteria, our lenders could declare a default. In the event of a default, our lenders could pursue the remedies available to them under these agreements. These remedies could include terminating our ability to make any new borrowings and accelerating the repayment of all existing indebtedness. Our inability at that point to obtain alternative financing would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows and would likely require that the Company consider seeking protection from its creditors under the federal bankruptcy laws. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with our financial covenants, obtain waivers for non-compliance or obtain alternative financing. 17. Judgments in Application of Critical Accounting Policies. In preparing our financial statements, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the annual and quarterly reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure about contingent assets and liabilities. Our actual results could be different from these estimates and assumptions and could require adjustments for future operating results. Some of our more critical accounting policies include: estimates of future sales and operating income to determine restaurant asset impairment; estimates of costs to determine self-insurance reserves for health insurance and Ohio workers’ compensation; and estimates of future sales and income to determine deferred tax assets. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 