Risk Factors.” We qualify any forward-looking statements entirely by these cautionary factors. The above mentioned risk factors are not all-inclusive. Given these uncertainties and that such statements speak only as of the date made, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. 3 Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Aaron’s, Inc. (“we”, “our”, “us”, “Aaron’s” or the “Company”) is a leading specialty retailer of consumer electronics, computers, residential furniture, household appliances and accessories. We engage in the lease ownership, lease and retail sale of a wide variety of products such as widescreen and LCD televisions, computers, living room, dining room and bedroom furniture, washers, dryers and refrigerators. We carry well-known brands such as JVC®, Mitsubishi®, Panasonic®, Sony®, Hewlett-Packard®, Simmons®, Frigidaire®, LG®, Samsung® and Sharp®. Our major operating divisions are the Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership division, the HomeSmart division and the Woodhaven Furniture Industries division, which supplies the majority of the upholstered furniture and bedding leased and sold in our stores. Our strategic focus is on expanding our sales and lease ownership business, which includes Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership and HomeSmart stores, through opening new Company-operated stores, expanding our franchise program, and making selective acquisitions. As of December 31, 2012, we had 2,073 stores, comprised of 1,324 Company-operated stores in 29 states and 749 independently-owned franchised stores in 48 states and Canada. We have added 294 Company-operated and 265 franchised stores since the beginning of 2008. Included in the Company store counts above are 1,246 Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores and 78 Company-operated HomeSmart stores. Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership division includes 19 Company-operated RIMCO stores, our wheels, tires and accessories sales and lease ownership concept. We have a history of revenue growth and profitability. Total revenues increased to $2.223 billion in 2012 from $1.592 billion in 2008, representing an 8.7% compound annual growth rate. Our total net earnings from continuing operations increased to $173.0 million in 2012 from $85.8 million in 2008 representing a 19.2% compound annual growth rate. Our former Chairman, R. Charles Loudermilk, Sr., established Aaron’s in 1955, and we were incorporated under the laws of Georgia in 1962. Our principal business address is 309 E. Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, 30305-2377, and our telephone number is (404) 231-0011. We own or have rights to various trademarks and trade names used in our business including Aaron’s, Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership, HomeSmart, RIMCO and Woodhaven Furniture Industries. Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership. Our Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership division is primarily a monthly payment model and focuses on providing durable household goods to lower to middle income consumers who have limited or no access to traditional credit sources such as bank financing, installment credit or credit cards. Our sales and lease ownership program enables these customers to obtain quality-of-life enhancing merchandise that they might otherwise not be able to afford, without incurring additional debt or long-term obligations. Our strategic focus is to expand our Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership division by opening Company-operated stores, expanding our franchise program and making selective acquisitions. We franchise our sales and lease ownership stores in select markets where we have no immediate plans to enter. Our franchise program: • provides additional revenues from franchise fees and royalties; • allows us to grow more quickly; • enables us to achieve economies of scale in purchasing, distribution, manufacturing and advertising for our sales and lease ownership stores; and • increases exposure to our brand. HomeSmart. In 2012 we expanded our HomeSmart division through an acquisition and new store openings, resulting in a net increase of seven Company-operated stores. The HomeSmart division has been established to serve weekly customers and the stores offer products that are similar to those in our Aaron’s stores. 4 Table of Contents Manufacturing (Woodhaven Furniture Industries). Aaron’s is the only major furniture lease company in the United States that manufactures its own furniture. We operate five furniture manufacturing plants and eight bedding manufacturing facilities. By manufacturing our own specially designed residential furniture and bedding, we believe we enjoy an advantage over our competitors. Manufacturing enables us to control the quality, cost, delivery, styling, durability and quantity of our furniture products. Substantially all of Woodhaven Furniture Industries’ production is leased and sold through our Company-operated and franchised stores. Aaron’s Office Furniture Closure. After disappointing results in a difficult economic environment, in June 2010 we announced plans to close all 12 of the then remaining Aaron’s Office Furniture stores and focus on the Company’s sales and lease ownership business. As of December 31, 2011, we closed 11 of the Aaron’s Office Furniture stores and had one remaining store open to liquidate merchandise; this final store was sold in August 2012. During 2010, we recorded $9.0 million in charges related to write-down and cost to dispose of office furniture, estimated future lease liabilities for closed stores, write-off of leaseholds, severance pay, and other costs associated with closing the stores and the division. We did not incur significant charges in 2011 or 2012 related to winding down the division. Industry Overview The Rent-to-Own Industry The rent-to-own industry offers customers an alternative to traditional methods of obtaining electronics, computers, home furnishings and appliances. In a typical industry rent-to-own transaction, the customer has the option to acquire merchandise over a fixed term, usually 12 to 24 months, normally by making weekly lease payments. The customer may cancel the agreement at any time by returning the merchandise to the store, generally with no further lease obligation. If customers lease the item to the full term, they obtain ownership of the item, though they can choose to buy it at any time. The rent-to-own concept is particularly popular with consumers who cannot pay the full purchase price for merchandise at once or who lack the credit to qualify under conventional financing programs. Rent-to-own is also popular with consumers who, despite good credit, do not wish to incur additional debt, have only a temporary need for the merchandise or want to try out a particular brand or model before buying it. We believe that the decline in the number of furniture stores, the limited number of retailers that focus on credit installment sales to lower and middle income consumers and the current tightening consumer credit have created a market opportunity for the industry. The traditional retail consumer durable goods market is much larger than the lease market, leaving substantial potential for industry growth. We believe that the segment of the population targeted by the industry comprises approximately 50% of all households in the United States and that the needs of these consumers are generally underserved. Aaron’s Sales and Lease Ownership versus Traditional Rent-to-Own We believe that our sales and lease ownership model is unique. By providing customers with the option either to lease merchandise with the opportunity to obtain ownership or to purchase merchandise outright, we blend elements of rent-to-own and traditional retailing. We believe our sales and lease ownership program is a more effective method of retailing our merchandise to lower to middle income consumers than a typical rent-to-own business or the more traditional method of credit installment sales. 5 Table of Contents Our sales and lease ownership model is distinctive from a typical rent-to-own business in that we encourage our customers to obtain ownership of their lease merchandise. Based upon industry data, we believe when merchandise is initially leased our customers obtain ownership more (over 46%) versus rent-to-own businesses in general (approximately 25%). We believe our sales and lease ownership model offers the following unique characteristics versus traditional rent-to-own stores: • Lower total cost—our agreement terms typically provide a lower cost of ownership to the customer. • Wider merchandise selection—we generally offer a larger selection of higher-quality merchandise. • Larger store layout—our stores are typically 9,000 square feet, nearly twice the size of typical rent-to-own stores. • Fewer payments— our typical plan offers semi-monthly or monthly payments versus the industry standard of weekly payments. Our agreements also usually provide for a shorter term until the customer obtains ownership. • Flexible payment methods—we offer our customers the opportunity to pay by cash, check, debit card or credit card, compared with the more common cash payment method at typical rent-to-own stores. Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores currently receive approximately 59.9% payment volume (in dollars) from customers by check, debit card or credit card. HomeSmart stores currently receive approximately 45.9% payment volume (in dollars) from customers by check, debit card, credit card or online payment. We believe our sales and lease ownership model also has attractive features in common with traditional retailers. Among these features are store size, merchandise selection and the latest product offerings, such as “state-of-the-art” electronics and computers. As technology advances and home furnishings and appliances evolve, we strive to offer our customers the latest product developments at affordable prices. Unlike transactions with most traditional retailers, where the customer is committed to purchase the merchandise, our sales and lease ownership transactions are not credit installment contracts, and the customer may elect to terminate the transaction after a short, initial lease period. Our sales and lease ownership stores offer an up-front “cash and carry” purchase option and a 120 day same-as-cash option on most merchandise at prices that are competitive with traditional retailers. Operating Strategies Our operating strategies are focused on differentiation from our competitors and improved efficiencies. We strive to: • Differentiate our sales and lease ownership concept – We believe that the success of our sales and lease ownership operation is attributable to our distinctive approach to the business that sets us apart from our rent-to-own and credit retail competitors. We have pioneered innovative approaches to meeting changing customer needs that differ from our competitors, such as offering lease ownership agreements which result in a lower “all-in” price, larger and more attractive store showrooms, a wider selection of higher-quality merchandise and up-front cash and carry purchase options on select merchandise at prices that are competitive with traditional retailers. Most sales and lease ownership customers make their payments in person, and we use these frequent visits to strengthen customer relationships and make customers feel welcomed in our stores. • Offer high levels of customer service and satisfaction – We foster good relationships with our customers to attract recurring business and encourage them to lease merchandise for the full agreement term by providing high levels of service and satisfaction. We demonstrate our commitment to superior customer service by providing customers quick delivery of leased merchandise, in many cases by same or next day delivery, and through Aaron’s Service Plus such other benefits as the 120 day same-as-cash option, repair service at no additional charge to the customer, lifetime reinstatement and other discounts and benefits. We have also established an employee training program called Aaron’s University, which is a 150-plus course curriculum designed to enhance the customer relation skills of both Company-operated and franchised store managers and other operating personnel. • Promote our vendors and the Aaron’s® brand name – Our marketing initiatives reach the target Aaron’s customer in a variety of ways. We advertise our brand name “Dream Products” through our “Drive Dreams Home” sponsorship of NASCAR Championship Racing. Sponsorship of other sporting events, such as professional football, basketball and baseball, and various college sports, also targets this distinct market. Every month, we distribute mass mailings of promotional material outlining specific products. Our goal is to reach households within a specified radius of each store on a consistent basis. Currently, we mail over 27 million flyers each month to consumers in areas served by our stores. We also utilize national and local television and radio advertising in our markets and for special promotions throughout the year. 6 Table of Contents • Manage merchandise through our manufacturing and distribution capabilities – We believe that our manufacturing operations and network of 16 operating fulfillment centers at December 31, 2012 give us a strategic advantage over our competitors. Manufacturing enables us to control the quality, cost, delivery, styling, durability and quantity of a substantial portion of our furniture and bedding merchandise, and provides us a reliable source of products. Our distribution system allows us to deliver merchandise promptly to our stores in order to meet customer demand quickly and manage inventory levels more effectively. • Utilize proprietary management information systems – We use proprietary computerized information systems to systematically pursue collections, to manage merchandise returns and to match inventory with demand. Each of our stores is linked by computer directly to our corporate headquarters, which enables us to monitor the performance of each store on a daily basis. Growth Strategies We seek to increase our revenues and profitability through the execution of our growth strategies, which are to: • Open additional Company-operated sales and lease ownership stores – We plan to open sales and lease ownership stores in existing and select new geographic markets. Additional stores help us to realize economies of scale in purchasing, marketing and distribution. We added a net of 93 Company-operated sales and lease ownership stores in 2012. • Increase our sales and lease ownership franchises – We believe that our franchise program allows us to grow more quickly and increase our brand exposure in new markets. In addition, the combination of Company-operated and franchised stores creates a larger store base that generally enhances the economies of scale in purchasing, distribution, manufacturing and advertising for our sales and lease ownership stores. Franchise fees and royalties represent a growing source of revenues. • Increase revenues and net earnings from existing sales and lease ownership stores – We experienced same store revenue growth (revenues earned in stores open for the entirety of both periods) from our Company-operated sales and lease ownership stores of 5.1% in 2012, 4.4% in 2011, and 3.5% in 2010. We calculate same store revenue growth by comparing revenues from comparable periods for all stores open during the entirety of those periods, excluding stores that received lease agreements from other acquired, closed or merged stores. We expect revenues and net earnings of our Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership division to continue to grow as the large number of stores we have opened in the past few years increase their customer bases. • Seek selective acquisitions in both new and existing sales and lease ownership markets – We will continue to explore acquisitions of other rent-to-own operations and select franchised stores. In 2012, we acquired the lease agreements, merchandise and assets of 48 sales and lease ownership stores. Twenty-six of these stores were subsequently merged with existing locations, resulting in 22 new stores from acquisitions. We will also seek to convert the stores of existing independent lease operators to Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership franchised stores. In 2012, we purchased 21 and sold three of our sales and lease ownership stores to franchisees. • Develop and expand HomeSmart weekly pay concept – In 2010, we opened our first HomeSmart store and had 78 stores open at the end of 2012. We expect revenue in our HomeSmart division to increase as these recently opened corporate stores add customers and start-up losses in existing stores diminish as the stores mature. We plan to open additional HomeSmart stores in the future assuming acceptable financial returns can be achieved. In 2012, a franchisee also opened the first HomeSmart franchised store. • Explore international expansion – In 2011 the Company purchased 11.5% of newly issued shares of common stock of a United Kingdom rent-to-own company and may further pursue international opportunities as they present themselves. As part of the transaction, the Company also received notes and an option to acquire the remaining interest in the United Kingdom company at any time through December 31, 2013. Operations Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership We established our Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership operation in 1987. At December 31, 2012, we had 1,246 Company-operated Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores in 29 states. 7 Table of Contents We have developed a distinctive concept for our sales and lease ownership stores with specific merchandising, store layout, pricing and agreement terms for our target customer market. We believe that these features create a store and a sales and lease ownership concept significantly different from the operations of typical rent-to-own stores and the operations of consumer electronics and home furnishings retailers who finance merchandise. The typical Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership store layout is a combination showroom and warehouse of 8,000 to 10,000 square feet, with an average of approximately 9,000 square feet. In selecting locations for new sales and lease ownership stores, we generally look for sites in well-maintained strip shopping centers with good access, which are strategically located in established working class neighborhoods and communities. We also build to suit or occupy stand-alone stores in certain markets. Many of our stores are placed near existing competitors’ stores. Each sales and lease ownership store usually maintains at least two trucks and crews for pickups and deliveries and generally offers same or next day delivery for addresses located within approximately ten miles of the store. We emphasize a broad selection of brand name electronics, computers and appliances, and offer customers a wide selection of furniture, including furniture manufactured by our Woodhaven Furniture Industries division. We believe that our sales and lease ownership stores offer lower merchandise prices than similar items offered by traditional rent-to-own operators, and substantially equivalent to the “all-in” contract price of similar items offered by retailers who finance merchandise. Approximately 92% of our Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership agreements are monthly and approximately 8% are semi-monthly as compared to the industry standard of weekly agreements, and our agreements usually provide for a shorter term leading to customer ownership. Through Aaron’s Service Plus, customers receive benefits including the 120 days same-as-cash option, repair service at no additional charge to the customer, lifetime reinstatement and other discounts and benefits. We re-lease or sell select merchandise that customers return to us prior to the expiration of their agreements. We also offer, for select merchandise, an up-front cash and carry purchase option at prices that are competitive with traditional retailers. During the latter part of 2004, we opened two experimental stores under the RIMCO name that lease automobile wheels, tires and rims to customers under sales and lease ownership agreements. Although the products offered are different, these stores are managed, monitored and operated similarly to our other sales and lease ownership stores. At December 31, 2012, we had 19 Company-operated and six franchised RIMCO stores open. Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership Franchise Program We began franchising Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores in select markets in 1992 and have continued to attract franchisees. Our franchised stores do not compete with Company-operated stores, nor do we anticipate any such competition, as we mainly award franchises in markets where we have no operations and no current plans to enter. As of December 31, 2012, we had 749 franchised stores open and area development agreements with franchisees to open 180 stores in the future. Franchisees are approved on the basis of the applicant’s business background and financial resources. We generally seek franchisees who will enter into area development agreements for several stores, although some franchisees currently operate a single store. Most franchisees are involved in the day-to-day operations of their stores. We enter into franchise agreements with our franchisees to govern the opening and operation of franchised stores. Under our current standard agreement, we require the franchisee to pay a franchise fee from $15,000 to $50,000 per store depending upon market size. Agreements are for a term of ten years, with one ten-year renewal option, and franchisees are obligated to remit to us royalty payments of 5% or 6% of the franchisee’s weekly cash collections. The royalty payments increased from 5% to 6% for most franchise agreements entered into or renewed after December 31, 2002. We assist each franchisee in selecting the proper site for each store. Because of the importance of location to the Aaron’s sales and lease ownership concept, one of our pre-opening consultants visits the intended market and helps guide the franchisee through the selection process. Once a site is selected, we help in designing the floor plan, including the proper layout of the showroom and warehouse. In addition, we provide assistance in assuring that the design and decor of the showroom is consistent with our requirements. We also lease the exterior signage to the franchisee and assist with placing pre-opening advertising, ordering initial inventory and obtaining delivery vehicles. 8 Table of Contents We have an arrangement with several banks to provide financing to qualifying franchisees to assist with establishing and operating their stores. An inventory financing plan to provide franchisees with the capital to purchase inventory is the primary component of the financing program. For qualified established franchisees, we have arranged in some cases for these institutions to provide a revolving credit line to allow franchisees the flexibility to expand. We guarantee amounts outstanding under the franchisee financing programs. All franchisees are required to complete a comprehensive training program and to operate their franchised sales and lease ownership stores in compliance with our policies, standards and specifications. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of their franchise agreements with Aaron’s, Inc., each franchise represents and warrants its compliance with all applicable federal, state and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances with respect to its business operations as well as its good standing to conduct lawful operations at each location. Franchisees in general are not required to purchase their lease merchandise from our fulfillment centers, although most do so in order to take advantage of Company-sponsored financing, bulk purchasing discounts and favorable delivery terms. On an annual basis, our internal audit department conducts a financial audit and an operational audit of each franchised store. In addition, our proprietary management information system links each Company and franchised store to corporate headquarters. HomeSmart Our HomeSmart division was established to serve weekly customers with products similar to those leased through our Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores. We established the HomeSmart division in late 2010 and at December 31, 2012, we had 78 Company-operated stores and one franchised store in 11 states. The typical HomeSmart store layout is a combination showroom and warehouse of 4,000 to 6,000 square feet, with an average of approximately 5,000 square feet. In selecting locations for new HomeSmart stores, we generally look for sites in well-maintained strip shopping centers with good access, which are strategically located in established working class neighborhoods and communities. Many of our stores are placed near existing competitors’ stores. Each HomeSmart store usually maintains at least two trucks and crews for pickups and deliveries and generally offers same or next day delivery for addresses located within approximately ten miles of the store. We emphasize a broad selection of brand name electronics, computers and appliances, and offer customers a wide selection of furniture, including furniture manufactured by our Woodhaven Furniture Industries division. We believe that our HomeSmart stores offer lower merchandise prices than similar items offered by traditional rent-to-own operators. Approximately 38% of our HomeSmart agreements are currently monthly, 18% are semi-monthly and approximately 44% are weekly. Through Aaron’s Service Plus, customers receive benefits including the 120 days same-as-cash option, repair service at no additional charge to the customer, lifetime reinstatement and other discounts and benefits. We re-lease or sell select merchandise that customers return to us prior to the expiration of their agreements. We also offer, for select merchandise, an up-front cash and carry purchase option at prices that are competitive with traditional retailers. Manufacturing Our Woodhaven Furniture Industries division has manufactured furniture for our stores since 1971. The Woodhaven Furniture Industries division manufactures upholstered furniture and bedding predominantly for use by Company-operated and franchised stores. The division has five furniture manufacturing plants and nine bedding manufacturing facilities, totaling approximately 940,000 square feet in the aggregate, that supply the majority of our upholstered furniture and bedding. Our Woodhaven Furniture Industries division manufactures: • upholstered living-room furniture, including contemporary sofas, chairs and modular sofa and ottoman collections in a variety of natural and synthetic fabrics; and • bedding, including standard sizes of mattresses and box springs. 9 Table of Contents Woodhaven has designed special features for the furniture it manufactures that we believe reduce production costs, enhance product durability, and improve the shipping process relative to furniture purchased from third parties. These features include: • standardization of components; • reduction of parts and features susceptible to wear or damage; • more resilient foam; • durable, soil-resistant fabrics and sturdy frames for longer life and higher residual value; and • devices that allow sofas to stand on end for easier and more efficient transport. Woodhaven also provides replacement covers of all styles and fabrics of its upholstered furniture for use in reconditioning lease return furniture. The principal raw materials we use in furniture manufacturing are fabric, foam, fiber, wire-innerspring assemblies, plywood, oriented strand board, and hardwood. All of these materials are purchased in the open market from unaffiliated sources. We are not dependent on any single supplier, and none of the raw materials we use are in short supply. Marketing and Advertising In 2012, Aaron’s reached our customer demographic on national broadcast and cable television and radio networks with a combination of brand/image messaging and product/price promotions on networks such as ABC, FOX, TBS, TELEMUNDO and UNIVISION, among others. Aaron’s enhanced its broadcast presence this year with digital marketing and via social environments such as Facebook and Twitter. Aaron’s targets new customers each month distributing over 27 million, four-page circulars to homes in the United States and Canada. The circulars feature brand name merchandise along with the features, options, and benefits of Aaron’s lease ownership payment plans. We implement grand opening “Jump Start” marketing initiatives designed to ensure each new store quickly establishes a strong customer count. Aaron’s also distributes millions of email and direct mail promotions. Aaron’s sponsors motorsports teams and event broadcasts at various levels along with select professional and collegiate sports, such as NFL and NBA teams, SEC and ACC college athletic programs, and an IMG collegiate sports national sponsorship package of 31 schools, among others. We also continue our NASCAR Sprint Cup team sponsorship of Michael Waltrip Racing in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series into the 2013 season with drivers Mark Martin and Michael Waltrip both driving the Aaron’s #55 “Dream Machine.” Our premier title sponsorship continues to be the Aaron’s Dream Weekend at Talladega Superspeedway consisting of the Aaron’s 499 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series Race and the Aaron’s 312 NASCAR Nationwide Series Race. Both races are broadcast live on national television and are among the most watched events on the NASCAR circuit. All of our sports partnerships are supported with advertising, promotional, marketing and brand activation initiatives that have proven to significantly enhance the Company’s brand awareness and customer loyalty. Store Operations Management. Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership division has 12 divisional vice presidents who are primarily responsible for the overall performance of their respective divisions. In addition, our HomeSmart division has one divisional vice president. Each division is subdivided into geographic groupings of stores overseen by 125 Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership regional managers, 11 HomeSmart regional managers and three RIMCO regional managers. At the individual store level, the store manager is primarily responsible for managing and supervising all aspects of the store operations, including but not limited to: • customer relations and account management; • deliveries and pickups; • warehouse and inventory management; • merchandise selection; • employment decisions, including hiring, training and terminating store employees; and • certain marketing efforts. 10 Table of Contents Store managers are also responsible for ensuring that lease return merchandise is properly inspected and determining whether it should be sold as is, leased again as is, repaired and sold, or reconditioned and leased again. The store manager’s total compensation is determined based upon the revenue and profits of his/her store. Our business philosophy has always emphasized safeguarding of Company assets, strict cost containment and fiscal controls. Store managers, as well as other levels of management, monitor expenses to contain costs. We pay all material invoices from Company headquarters in order to enhance fiscal accountability. We believe that careful attention to the safeguarding of lease merchandise, our most significant asset, as well as the expense side of our operations, has enabled us to maintain financial stability and profitability. Management Information Systems. We use computer-based management information systems to facilitate cash collections, merchandise returns and inventory monitoring. Through the use of proprietary software developed in-house, each of our stores is linked by computer directly to corporate headquarters, which enables us to monitor the performance of each store on a daily basis. At the store level, the store manager is better able to track merchandise on the showroom floor and in the warehouse to minimize delivery times, assist with product purchasing, and match customer needs with available inventory. Lease Agreement Approval, Renewal and Collection. One of the keys to the success of our sales and lease ownership operation is timely cash collections. Individual store managers oversee the monitoring of cash collections and customers are contacted within a few days of their lease payment due dates in order to encourage customers to keep their agreement current and in force, rather than having to return the merchandise for non-payment, and to renew their agreements for an additional period. Careful attention to cash collections is particularly important in sales and lease ownership operations, where the customer typically has the option to cancel the agreement at any time and each payment is considered a renewal of the agreement rather than a collection of a receivable. We generally perform no formal credit check with respect to sales and lease ownership customers, other than to verify employment or other reliable sources of income and personal references supplied by the customer. All of our agreements for merchandise require payments in advance, and the merchandise normally is repossessed if a payment is significantly in arrears. We do not extend credit to sales and lease ownership customers. Net Company-wide merchandise shrinkage as a percentage of combined lease revenues was 3.3% in 2012, 3.0% in 2011 and 3.3% in 2010. We believe that our collection and repossession policies materially comply with applicable legal requirements, and we discipline any employee that we discover deviating from such policies. 11 Table of Contents Customer Service. We believe that customer service is one of the most important elements in the success of our business. Customer satisfaction is critical because the customer typically has the option of returning the leased merchandise at any time. Our goal is to make our customers feel positive about Aaron’s and our products from the moment they enter our showrooms. Through Aaron’s Service Plus, customers receive benefits including the 120 days same-as-cash option, repair service at no additional charge to the customer, lifetime reinstatement and other discounts and benefits. In order to increase leasing at existing stores, we foster relationships with existing customers to attract recurring business, and many new agreements are attributable to repeat customers. Because of the importance of customer service, we believe that a prerequisite for successful operations and growth is skilled, effective employees who value our customers and project a genuine desire to serve customers’ needs. We have developed one of the largest training programs in the industry, called Aaron’s University. Aaron’s University is designed to provide a uniform customer service experience regardless of the store’s location, or whether it is Company-operated or franchised. Standardizing operating procedures throughout our system is a primary focus of Aaron’s University. Aaron’s national trainers provide live interactive training via webinars on a daily basis to entry level and management level associates. The learning program is also complimented with a robust e-learning library with a constantly growing curriculum. In addition to the e-learning program, Aaron’s University has a management development program that offers facilities-based training for current managers and store management caliber associates. Additionally, approximately once a month we produce video based communications on a wide variety of topics of interest to our store personnel regarding current Company initiatives. Our policy of primarily promoting from within boosts employee retention and underscores our commitment to customer service and other business philosophies, allowing us to realize greater benefits from our employee training programs. Purchasing and Distribution Our product mix is determined by store managers in consultation with regional managers and regional vice presidents, based on an analysis of customer demands. The following table shows the percentage of Company revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 attributable to different merchandise categories: Merchandise Category Percentage of2012 Revenues Percentage of2011 Revenues Percentage of2010 Revenues Electronics 32 % 36 % 37 % Furniture 35 % 32 % 31 % Appliances 20 % 17 % 16 % Computers 10 % 12 % 13 % Other 3 % 3 % 3 % We purchase the majority of our merchandise directly from manufacturers, with the balance from local distributors. One of our largest suppliers is our own Woodhaven Furniture Industries division, which supplies the majority of the upholstered furniture and bedding we lease or sell. We have no long-term agreements for the purchase of merchandise. Sales and lease ownership operations utilize fulfillment centers, which are on average approximately 119,000 square feet, to control merchandise. All Company-operated sales and lease ownership stores receive merchandise directly from our 16 operating fulfillment centers, together totaling approximately 1,900,000 square feet. Most of our continental United States stores are within a 250-mile radius of a fulfillment center, facilitating timely shipment of products to the stores and fast delivery of orders to customers. We realize freight savings from truckload discounts and more efficient distribution of merchandise by using fulfillment centers. We use our own tractor-trailers, local delivery trucks and various contract carriers to make weekly deliveries to individual stores. 12 Table of Contents Competition Aaron’s business is highly competitive. Our largest competitor in the rent-to-own market is Rent-A-Center, Inc. According to industry sources and our estimates, Aaron’s and Rent-A-Center, which are the two largest industry participants, account for approximately 5,400 of the 8,600 rent-to-own stores in the United States and Canada. Our stores compete with other national and regional rent-to-own businesses, as well as with rental stores that do not offer their customers a purchase option. With respect to customers desiring to purchase merchandise for cash or on credit, we also compete with retail stores. Competition is based primarily on store location, product selection and availability, customer service and lease rates and terms. Seasonality Aaron’s revenue mix is moderately seasonal, with the first quarter of each year generally resulting in higher revenues than any other quarter during the year, primarily due to realizing the full benefit of business that historically gradually increases in the fourth quarter as a result of the holiday season, as well as the receipt by our customers in the first quarter of federal income tax refunds. Generally, our customers will more frequently exercise the early purchase option on their existing lease agreements or purchase merchandise off the showroom floor during the first quarter of the year. We expect this trend to continue in future periods. Furthermore, we tend to experience slower growth in the number of agreements on lease in the third quarter of each year when compared to the other quarters of the year. We also expect this trend to continue in future periods unless we significantly change our store base as a result of new store openings or opportunistic acquisitions and dispositions. Working Capital We are required to maintain significant levels of lease merchandise in order to provide the enhanced service levels demanded by the nature of our business and our customers, and to ensure timely delivery of our products. Consistent and dependable sources of liquidity are required to maintain such merchandise levels. Failure to maintain appropriate levels of merchandise could materially adversely affect our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business. We believe our operating cash flows, credit availability under our loan agreements and other sources of financing are adequate to finance our normal liquidity requirements. We will continue to aggressively pursue merchandise management, maintain tight cost controls and limit capital expenditures. However, deterioration in our markets or significant additional cash expenditures above our normal liquidity requirements could require supplemental financing or other funding sources. There can be no assurance that such supplemental financing or other sources of funding can be obtained or will be obtained on terms favorable to us. Government Regulation Our operations are extensively regulated by and subject to the requirements of various federal, state and local laws and regulations. In general such laws regulate applications for leases, late fees, other finance rates, the form of disclosure statements, the substance and sequence of required disclosures, the content of advertising materials and certain collection procedures. Violations of certain provisions of these laws may result in penalties ranging from nominal amounts up to and including forfeiture of fees and other amounts due on leases. We do not anticipate that the various laws and regulations have had or will have a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we are unable to predict the nature or effect on our operations or earnings of unknown future legislation, regulations and judicial decisions or future interpretations of existing and future legislation or regulations relating to our operations, and there can be no assurance that future laws, decisions or interpretations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations and earnings. A summary of certain of the state and federal laws under which we operate follows. This summary does not purport to be a complete summary of the laws referred to below or of all the laws regulating our operations. Currently, 47 states and the District of Columbia specifically regulate rent-to-own transactions, including states in which we currently operate Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership and HomeSmart stores. Most state lease purchase laws require rent-to-own companies to disclose to their customers the total number of payments, total amount and timing of all payments to acquire ownership of any item, any other charges that may be imposed, and miscellaneous other items. The more restrictive state lease purchase laws limit the total amount that a customer may be charged for an item, or regulate the amount of deemed “interest” that rent-to-own companies may charge on rent-to-own transactions, generally defining “interest” as lease fees paid in excess of the “retail” price of the goods. Our long-established policy in all states is to disclose the terms of our lease purchase transactions as a matter of good business ethics and customer service. We believe we are in material compliance with the various state lease purchase laws in those states where we use a lease purchase form of agreement. At the present time, no federal law specifically regulates the rent-to-own industry. Federal legislation to regulate the industry has been proposed from time to time. 13 Table of Contents There has been increased legislative attention in the United States, at both the state and federal levels, on consumer debt transactions in general, which may result in an increase in legislative regulatory efforts directed at the rent-to-own industry. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted and what the impact of such legislation would be on us. Although we are unable to predict the results of any regulatory initiatives, we do not believe that existing and currently proposed regulations will have a material adverse impact on our sales and lease ownership or other operations. In a number of states, we utilize a consumer lease form as an alternative to a typical lease purchase agreement. The consumer lease differs from our state lease agreement in that it has an initial lease term in excess of four months. Generally, state laws that govern the rent-to-own industry only apply to lease agreements with an initial term of four months or less. The consumer lease is governed by federal and state laws and regulations other than the state lease purchase laws. The federal regulations applicable to the consumer lease require certain disclosures similar to the rent-to-own regulations, but are generally less restrictive as to pricing and other charges. We believe we are in material compliance with all laws applicable to our consumer leasing program. Our sales and lease ownership franchise program is subject to Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) regulation and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Several state laws also regulate substantive aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. The FTC requires us to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise disclosure document containing prescribed information. A number of states in which we might consider franchising also regulate the sale of franchises and require registration of the franchise offering circular with state authorities. We believe we are in material compliance with all applicable franchise laws in those states in which we do business and with similar laws in Canada. Employees At December 31, 2012, Aaron’s had approximately 11,900 employees. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. Information on Segments and Geographic Areas We currently only operate in the United States, and we have franchise operations in both the United States and Canada. Information on our four reportable segments—Sales and Lease Ownership, Franchise, HomeSmart and Manufacturing—is set forth in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Item 8 of Part II. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our Internet address is www.investor.aarons.com. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Aaron’s business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are set forth below. Our growth strategy depends considerably on opening new Company-operated stores. Our ability to expand our store base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may impair our growth strategy and impede our revenue growth. 14 Table of Contents Opening new Company-operated stores is an important part of our growth strategy. Our ability to continue opening new stores is affected by, among other things: • the substantial outlay of financial resources required to open new stores and initially operate them, and the availability of capital sources to finance new openings and initial operation; • difficulties associated with hiring, training and retaining additional skilled personnel, including store managers; • our ability to identify suitable new store sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites; • competition in existing and new markets; • consumer demand, tastes and spending patterns in new markets that differ from those in our existing markets; and • challenges in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores. If we cannot address these challenges successfully, we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rates we currently contemplate. If we cannot manage the costs of opening new stores, our profitability may suffer. Opening large numbers of new stores requires significant start-up expenses, and new stores are generally not profitable until their second year of operation. Consequently, opening many stores over a short period can materially decrease our net earnings for a time. This effect is called “new store drag.” During 2012, we estimate that start-up expenses for new stores reduced our net earnings by approximately $11 million, or $.14 per diluted share for our Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores and approximately $2 million, or $.02 per diluted share for our HomeSmart stores. We cannot be certain that we will be able to fully recover these significant costs in the future. We may not be able to attract qualified franchisees, which may slow the growth of our business. Our growth strategy also depends significantly upon our franchisees developing new franchised sales and lease ownership stores. We generally seek franchisees who meet our stringent business background and financial criteria, and who are willing to enter into area development agreements for several stores. A number of factors, however, could inhibit our ability to find qualified franchisees, including general economic downturns or legislative or litigation developments that make the rent-to-own industry less attractive to potential franchisees. These developments could also adversely affect our franchisees’ ability to obtain adequate capital to develop and operate new stores on time, or at all. Our inability to find qualified franchisees could slow our growth. Qualified franchisees who conform to our standards and requirements are also important to the overall success of our business. Our franchisees, however, are independent businesses and not employees, and consequently we cannot and do not control them to the same extent as our Company-operated stores. Our franchisees may fail in key areas, which could in turn slow our growth, reduce our franchise revenues or damage our image and reputation. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, our profitability may decrease. We frequently acquire other sales and lease ownership businesses. We acquired the lease agreements, merchandise and assets of 44 Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores and four HomeSmart stores through acquisitions in 2012. If we are unable to integrate successfully businesses we acquire, we may incur substantial cost and delays in increasing our customer base. In addition, the failure to integrate acquisitions successfully may divert management’s attention from Aaron’s existing business. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in an unfamiliar market, or a business with a different management philosophy or operating style. 15 Table of Contents Our competitors could impede our ability to attract new customers, or cause current customers to cease doing business with us. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive. In the sales and lease ownership market, our competitors include national, regional and local operators of rent-to-own stores and traditional retailers. Our competitors in the sales and lease ownership and traditional retail markets may have significantly greater financial and operating resources, and greater name recognition in certain markets, than we have. Greater financial resources may allow our competitors to grow faster than us, including through acquisitions. This in turn may enable them to enter new markets before we can, which may decrease our opportunities in those markets. Greater name recognition, or better public perception of a competitor’s reputation, may help them divert market share away from us, even in our established markets. In addition, new competitors may emerge. Current and potential competitors may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. If our independent franchisees fail to meet their debt service payments or other obligations under outstanding loans guaranteed by us as part of a franchise loan program, we may be required to pay to satisfy these obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have guaranteed the borrowings of certain franchisees under a franchise loan program with several banks with a maximum commitment amount of $200.0 million. In the event these franchisees are unable to meet their debt service payments or otherwise experience an event of default, we would be unconditionally liable for a portion of the outstanding balance of the franchisees’ debt obligations, which at December 31, 2012 was $117.3 million. Although we have had no significant losses associated with the franchise loan and guaranty program since its inception, and we believe that any losses associated with any defaults would be mitigated through recovery of lease merchandise and other assets, we cannot guarantee that there will be no significant losses in the future or that we will be able to adequately mitigate any such losses. If we fail to adequately mitigate any such future losses, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Any loss of the services of our key executives, or our inability to attract and retain qualified managers, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We believe that we have benefited substantially from our current executive leadership and that the loss of their services at any time in the near future could adversely affect our business and operations. We also depend on the continued services of the rest of our management team. The loss of these individuals without adequate replacement could also adversely affect our business. Although we have employment agreements with the majority of our key executives, they are generally terminable on short notice and we do not carry key man life insurance on any of our officers. Additionally, we need a growing number of qualified managers to operate our stores successfully. The inability to attract and retain qualified individuals, or a significant increase in the costs to do so, would materially adversely affect our operations. You should not rely solely on our same store revenues as an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. Our historical same store revenue growth figures have fluctuated significantly from year to year. For example, we experienced same store revenue growth of 5.1% in 2012 and 4.4% in 2011. We calculate same store revenue growth by comparing revenues for comparable periods for all stores open during the entirety of those periods. Even though we achieved significant same store revenue growth in the past and consider it a key indicator of historical performance, we may not be able to increase same store revenues in the future. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our same store revenues, including: • changes in competition; • general economic conditions; • new product introductions; • consumer trends; 16 Table of Contents • changes in our merchandise mix; • the opening of new stores; • the impact of our new stores on our existing stores, including potential decreases in existing stores’ revenues as a result of opening new stores; • timing of promotional events; and • our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Changes in our quarterly and annual same store revenues could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Our operations are regulated by and subject to the requirements of various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations which may be amended or supplemented or interpreted by the courts from time to time, could expose us to significant compliance costs or burdens or force us to change our business practices in a manner that may be materially adverse to our operations, prospects or financial condition. Currently, 47 states and the District of Columbia specifically regulate rent-to-own transactions, including states in which we currently operate Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership and HomeSmart stores. At the present time, no federal law specifically regulates the rent-to-own industry, although federal legislation to regulate the industry has been proposed from time to time. Any adverse changes in existing laws, or the passage of new adverse legislation by states or the federal government could materially increase both our costs of complying with laws and the risk that we could be sued or be subject to government sanctions if we are not in compliance. In addition, new burdensome legislation might force us to change our business model and might reduce the economic potential of our sales and lease ownership operations. Most of the states that regulate rent-to-own transactions have enacted disclosure laws which require rent-to-own companies to disclose to their customers the total number of payments, total amount and timing of all payments to acquire ownership of any item, any other charges that may be imposed by them and miscellaneous other items. The more restrictive state lease purchase laws limit the total amount that a customer may be charged for an item, or regulate the amount of deemed “interest” that rent-to-own companies may charge on rent-to-own transactions, generally defining “interest” as lease fees paid in excess of the “retail” price of the goods. There has been increased legislative attention in the United States, at both the state and federal levels, on consumer debt transactions in general, which may result in an increase in legislative regulatory efforts directed at the rent-to-own industry. We cannot guarantee that the federal government or states will not enact additional or different legislation that would be disadvantageous or otherwise materially adverse to us, nor can we guarantee that Canadian law will not be enacted that would be materially adverse to our franchisees there. In addition to the risk of lawsuits related to the laws that regulate rent-to-own and consumer lease transactions, we or our franchisees could be subject to lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state or Canadian provincial laws and regulations and consumer tort law, including fraud, consumer protection, information security and privacy laws, because of the consumer-oriented nature of the rent-to-own industry. A large judgment against the Company could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, an adverse outcome from a lawsuit, even one against one of our competitors, could result in changes in the way we and others in the industry do business, possibly leading to significant costs or decreased revenues or profitability. Continuation or worsening of current economic conditions could result in decreased revenues or increased costs. The United States’ and other economies are currently experiencing distress and uncertainty, accompanied by high unemployment. Although we believe the economic downturn has resulted in increased business in our sales and lease ownership stores, as consumers increasingly find it difficult to purchase home furnishings, electronics and appliances from traditional retailers on store installment credit, it is possible that if the conditions continue for a significant period of time, or get worse, consumers may curtail spending on all or some of the types of merchandise we offer, in which event our revenues may suffer. 17 Table of Contents In addition, unemployment may result in increased defaults on lease payments, resulting in increased merchandise return costs and merchandise losses. We are subject to laws that regulate franchisor-franchisee relationships. Our ability to develop new franchised stores and enforce our rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws, which could impair our growth strategy and cause our franchise revenues to decline. As a franchisor, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, state laws and certain Canadian provincial laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Because we plan to expand our business in part by selling more franchises, our failure to obtain or maintain approvals to sell franchises could significantly impair our growth strategy. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable franchise regulations could cause us to lose franchise fees and ongoing royalty revenues. Moreover, state and provincial laws that regulate substantive aspects of our relationships with franchisees may limit our ability to terminate or otherwise resolve conflicts with our franchisees. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for information on some of our pending legal proceedings. We are subject to legal proceedings from time to time which seek material damages. We frequently are subject to legal proceedings, including class actions, that seek material damages. Although we do not presently believe that any of the legal proceedings to which we are currently a party will ultimately have a material adverse impact upon us, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material damages in a lawsuit or other proceeding in the future. Significant final judgments, settlement amounts, amounts needed to post a bond pending an appeal or defense costs could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers and employees, we could be subject to costly private litigation, government enforcement actions or material remedial costs, and our reputation could suffer. We collect, transmit and store potentially sensitive information about our employees, franchisees and customers on our information technology systems. Due to the nature of our business, we may collect, transmit and store more of such information than other types of retailers. We also serve as an information technology provider to our franchisees and store and process information related to their customers on our systems. Although we take precautions to protect this information, it is possible that hackers or other malefactors could attack our systems and attempt to obtain such information, or such information could be exposed by accident or failure of our systems. We have experienced security incidents in the past, including an incident in which customer information was compromised, although no security incidents have resulted in a material loss to date. We are in the process of improving our system security, although there can be no assurance that these improvements, or others that we implement from time to time, will be effective to prevent all security incidents. We maintain cyber security insurance liability coverage intended to help mitigate the financial risk of such incidents, but there can be no guarantee that insurance will be sufficient to cover all losses related to such incidents. A significant compromise of sensitive customer or employee information in our possession could result in legal damages and regulatory penalties. In addition, the costs of defending such actions, or in remediating breaches, could be material. Security breaches could also harm our reputation with our customers, potentially leading to decreased revenues. If our information technology systems are impaired, our business could be interrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we may experience lost revenues and increased costs and expenses. We rely on our information technology systems to process transactions with our customers, including tracking lease payments on merchandise, and to manage other important functions of our business. Failures of our systems—whether due to intentional malfeasance by outside parties or to accidental causes, such as “bugs,” crashes, operator error or catastrophic events—could seriously impair our ability to operate our business. If our information technology systems are impaired, our business (and that of our franchisees) could be interrupted, our reputation could be harmed, we may experience lost revenues or sales and we could experience increased costs and expenses to remediate the problem. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 