ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Aaron Rents’ business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are set forth below. Our growth strategy depends considerably on opening new company-operated stores. Our ability to expand our store base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may impair our growth strategy and impede our revenue growth. Opening new company-operated stores is an important part of our growth strategy. Our ability to continue opening new stores is affected by, among other things: • the substantial outlay of financial resources required to open new stores and initially operate them, and the availability of capital sources to finance new openings and initial operation; • difficulties associated with hiring, training and retaining additional skilled personnel, including store managers; • our ability to identify suitable new store sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites; • competition in existing and new markets; • consumer demand, tastes and spending patterns in new markets that differ from those in our existing markets; and • challenges in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores. If we cannot address these challenges successfully, we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rates we currently contemplate. If we cannot manage the costs of opening new stores, our profitability may suffer. Since the beginning of 2006, we added a net of 266 company-operated sales and lease ownership stores. Opening large numbers of new stores requires significant start-up expenses, and new stores are often not profitable until their second year of operation. Consequently, opening many stores over a short period can materially decrease our net earnings for a time. This effect is sometimes called “new store drag.” During 2007, we estimate that start-up expenses for new stores reduced our net earnings by approximately $12 million, or $.23 per diluted share. We cannot be certain that we will be able to fully recover these significant costs in the future. We may not be able to attract qualified franchisees, which may slow the growth of our business. Our growth strategy depends significantly upon our franchisees developing new franchised sales and lease ownership stores. We generally seek franchisees who meet our stringent business background and financial criteria, and who are willing to enter into area development agreements for several stores. A number of factors, however, could inhibit our ability to find qualified franchisees, including general economic downturns or legislative or litigation developments that make the rent-to-own industry less attractive to potential franchisees. These developments could also adversely affect our franchisees’ ability to obtain adequate capital to develop and operate new stores on time, or at all. Our inability to find qualified franchisees could slow our growth. Qualified franchisees who conform to our standards and requirements are also important to the overall success of our business. Our franchisees, however, are independent contractors and not employees, and consequently we cannot and do not control them to the same extent as our company-operated stores. Our franchisees may fail in key areas, which could in turn slow our growth, reduce our franchise revenues, or damage our image and reputation. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational, and other benefits in a timely manner, our profitability may decrease. We frequently acquire other sales and lease ownership businesses. We acquired the rental agreements, merchandise and assets of 51 stores through acquisitions in 2007. If we are unable to integrate businesses we acquire successfully, we may incur substantial cost and delays in increasing our customer base. In addition, the failure to 16 Table of Contents integrate acquisitions successfully may divert management’s attention from Aaron Rents’ existing business. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in an unfamiliar market, or a business with a different management philosophy or operating style. Our competitors could impede our ability to attract new customers, or cause current customers to cease doing business with us. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive. In the sales and lease ownership market, our competitors include national, regional and local operators of rent-to-own stores and credit retailers. We compete in the rent-to-rent market with national and local companies and, to a lesser extent, with apartment owners who purchase or provide furniture for rental to tenants. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and operating resources, and greater name recognition in certain markets, than we have. Greater financial resources may allow our competitors to grow faster than us, including through acquisitions. This in turn may enable them to enter new markets before we can, which may decrease our opportunities in those markets. Greater name recognition, or better public perception of a competitor’s reputation, may help them divert market share away from us, even in our established markets. In addition, new competitors may emerge. Current and potential competitors may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. If our independent franchisees fail to meet their debt service payments or other obligations under outstanding loans guaranteed by us as part of a franchise loan program, amounts that the lenders participating in the program could require us to pay to satisfy these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have guaranteed the borrowings of certain franchisees under a franchise loan program with several banks with a maximum commitment amount of $140.0 million, and we also guarantee franchisee borrowings under certain other debt facilities. In the event these franchisees are unable to meet their debt service payments or otherwise experience an event of default, we would be unconditionally liable for a portion of the outstanding balance of the franchisees’ debt obligations, which at December 31, 2007 was $108.6 million. Of this amount, approximately $77.4 million represents franchisee borrowings outstanding under the franchise loan program and approximately $31.2 million represents franchisee borrowings that we guarantee under other debt facilities. Although we have had no significant losses associated with the franchisee loan and guaranty program since its inception, and we believe that any losses associated with any defaults would be mitigated through recovery of rental merchandise and other assets, we cannot guarantee that there will be no significant losses in the future or that we will be able to adequately mitigate any such losses. If we fail to adequately mitigate any such future losses, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Any loss of the services of our key executives, or our inability to attract and retain qualified managers, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We believe that we have benefited substantially from Mr. Loudermilk, Sr.’s leadership and that the loss of his services at any time in the near future could adversely affect our business and operations. We also depend on the continued services of the rest of our management team, including key executives. The loss of these individuals without adequate replacement could also adversely affect our business. Although we have employment agreements with some of our key executives, they are generally terminable on short notice and we do not carry key man life insurance on any of our officers. Additionally, we need a growing number of qualified managers to operate our stores successfully. The inability to attract and retain qualified individuals, or a significant increase in costs to do so, would materially adversely affect our operations. Because our corporate furnishings division depends on business customers, slowdowns in corporate spending may decrease our revenues. 17 Table of Contents Our corporate furnishings division depends on business customers for a significant percentage of its rental revenues. Because businesses are likely to curb spending during economic downturns, the revenues of our corporate furnishings business may be adversely affected during these periods. We cannot be certain that revenues from our corporate furnishings division will increase in the future. You should not rely solely on our same store revenues as an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. Our historical same store revenue growth figures have fluctuated significantly from year to year. For example, we experienced same store revenue growth of 3.8% for 2007 and 7.2% in 2006. We calculate same store revenue growth by comparing revenues for comparable periods for all stores open during the entirety of those periods. Even though we achieved significant same store revenue growth in the past and consider it a key indicator of historical performance, we may not be able to increase same store revenues in the future. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our same store revenues, including: • changes in competition; • general economic conditions; • new product introductions; • consumer trends; • changes in our merchandise mix; • the impact of our new stores on our existing stores, including potential decreases in existing stores’ revenues as a result of opening new stores; • timing of promotional events; and • our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Changes in our quarterly and annual same store revenues could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Our operations are regulated by and subject to the requirements of various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, as the same may be amended or supplemented or interpreted by the courts from time to time, could expose us to significant compliance costs or burdens or force us to change our business practices in a manner that may be materially adverse to our operations, prospects or financial condition. Currently 47 states, including the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, specifically regulate rent-to-own transactions, including states in which we currently operate Aaron’s Sales & Lease Ownership stores. At the present time, no federal law specifically regulates the rent-to-own industry, although federal legislation to regulate the industry has been proposed from time to time. Any adverse changes in existing laws, or the passage of new adverse legislation by states or the federal government could materially increase both our costs of complying with laws and the risk that we could be sued or be subject to government sanctions if we are not in compliance. In addition, new burdensome legislation might force us to change our business model, and might reduce the economic potential of our sales and lease ownership operations. Most of the states that regulate rent-to-own transactions have enacted disclosure laws which require rent-to-own companies to disclose to their customers the total number of payments, total amount and timing of all payments to acquire ownership of any item, any other charges that may be imposed by them and miscellaneous other items. The more restrictive state rental purchase laws limit the total amount that a customer may be charged for an item, or regulate the amount of deemed “interest” that rent-to-own companies may charge on rent-to-own transactions, generally defining “interest” as rental fees paid in excess of the “retail” price of the goods. We cannot guarantee that the federal government or states will not enact additional or different legislation that would be disadvantageous or otherwise materially adverse to us. In addition to the risk of lawsuits related to the laws that regulate rent-to-own and consumer lease transactions, we could be subject to lawsuits alleging violations of state laws and regulations and consumer tort law, including fraud and consumer protection laws because of the consumer-oriented nature of the rent-to-own industry. A large judgment could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, an adverse outcome from a lawsuit, even 18 Table of Contents one against one of our competitors, could result in changes in the way we and others in the industry do business, possibly leading to significant costs or decreased revenues or profitability. We are subject to laws that regulate franchisor-franchisee relationships. Our ability to develop new franchised stores and enforce our rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws, which could impair our growth strategy and cause our franchise revenues to decline. As a franchisor, we are subject to both regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, state laws and certain Canadian provincial laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Because we plan to expand our business in part by selling more franchises, our failure to obtain or maintain approvals to sell franchises could significantly impair our growth strategy. In addition, our failure to comply with franchise regulations could cause us to lose franchise fees and ongoing royalty revenues. Moreover, state laws that regulate substantive aspects of our relationships with franchisees may limit our ability to terminate or otherwise resolve conflicts with our franchisees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 