Item 1A. Risk Factors, the Bank is currently prohibited from paying dividends to the Company without the prior consent of the FDIC and the State Board. Dividends from the Bank are the Company’s primarily source of funds for payment of dividends to its shareholders. For additional disclosure regarding matters related to our common stock dividends, see Item 5. Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action Banks and bank holding companies are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by state and federal banking agencies. Capital adequacy guidelines and, additionally for banks, prompt corrective action regulations involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet agreements calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk-weighting and other factors. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have substantially similar risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The guidelines are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of assets and off-balance sheet agreements. Under the guidelines, banking 15 Table of Contents organizations are required to maintain minimum ratios for Tier 1 capital, as defined below, and total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet agreements such as letters of credit). For purposes of calculating the ratios, a banking organization’s assets and some of its specified off-balance sheet agreements are assigned to various risk categories. A depository institution’s or holding company’s capital, in turn, is classified in one of the following three tiers depending on type: • Core Capital (Tier 1). Tier 1 capital includes common equity, retained earnings, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock at the holding company level, minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, qualifying trust preferred securities less goodwill, nonqualifying deferred tax assets, most intangible assets and certain other assets. • Supplementary Capital (Tier 2). Tier 2 capital includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred securities not meeting the Tier 1 definition, qualifying mandatory convertible debt securities, qualifying subordinated debt and allowances for loan losses, subject to limitations. • Market Risk Capital (Tier 3). Tier 3 capital includes qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. The Company, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain Tier 1 capital and total capital (the sum of Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 capital) equal to at least 4.0% and 8.0%, respectively, of our total risk-weighted assets (including various off-balance sheet agreements such as letters of credit). At least half of the total capital is required to be Tier 1 capital. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet agreements, are multiplied by a risk-weight based on the risk inherent in the type of asset. The Bank, like other depository institutions, is required to maintain similar capital levels under capital adequacy guidelines. For a depository institution to be considered well-capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, its Tier 1 and total capital ratios must be at least 6.0% and 10.0% on a risk-weighted basis, respectively. Bank holding companies and banks subject to the market risk capital guidelines are required to incorporate market and interest rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards. The Company and the Bank are not subject to the market risk capital guidelines. In addition to the risk-based capital guidelines, bank holding companies and banks are also required to comply with minimum leverage ratio requirements. The Federal Reserve has adopted a minimum Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio under which a bank holding company must maintain a minimum level of Tier 1 capital to its total adjusted quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes) of at least 3% in the case of bank holding companies that have the highest regulatory examination ratios and are not contemplating significant growth or expansion. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio of at least 4% unless an appropriate regulatory authority specifies a different minimum. For a depository institution to be considered well-capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, its leverage ratio must be at least 5.0%. The Federal Reserve has not advised the Company of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to it. The FDIC also requires state-chartered, nonmember banks, such as the Bank, to maintain a minimum leverage ratio similar to that adopted by the Federal Reserve. Under the FDIC’s leverage capital requirement, the Bank is generally required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio of not less than 4%. However, under the terms of the Consent Order entered into with the FDIC and the State Board in 2010, the Bank is subject to a minimum Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio of 8.0%. The FDIA requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA sets forth the following five capital tiers: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly-undercapitalized and critically-undercapitalized. A depository institution’s capital tier depends on how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors as established by regulation. The relevant capital measures are the total capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, and Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio. 16 Table of Contents Under the regulations adopted by the federal regulatory authorities, a bank will be categorized as: • Well-capitalized if the institution has a total capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, a Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio of 5.0% or greater and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure, • Adequately-capitalized if the institution has a total capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.0% or greater, a Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not categorized as well-capitalized, • Undercapitalized if the institution has a total capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio of less than 4.0%, • Significantly-undercapitalized if the institution has a total capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3.0%, or a Tier 1 (leverage) capital ratio of less than 3.0%, or • Critically-undercapitalized if the institution’s tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. In addition, an institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. A bank’s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of a bank’s overall financial condition for other purposes. If a bank is not well-capitalized, it cannot accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval and, unless approval is granted, cannot offer an effective yield of interest in excess of 75 basis points on interest paid on deposits of comparable size and maturity in such institution’s normal market area for deposits accepted from within its normal market area or national rate paid on deposits of comparable size and maturity for deposits accepted outside the bank’s normal market area. Thus, for deposits in its own normal market area, the Bank must offer rates that are not in excess of 75 basis points over the average local rates. For nonlocal deposits, the Bank must offer rates that are not in excess of 75 basis points over either (1) the Bank’s own local rates or (2) the applicable nonlocal rates. In other words, the Bank must adhere to the prevailing rates in its own normal market area for all deposits (whether local or nonlocal) and also must adhere to the prevailing rates in the nonlocal area for any nonlocal deposits. Thus, the Bank would be unable to outbid nonlocal institutions for nonlocal deposits even if the nonlocal rates are lower than the rates in the Bank’s own normal market area. Undercapitalized institutions are subject to growth limitations (an undercapitalized institution may not acquire another institution, establish additional branch offices or engage in any new line of business unless determined by the appropriate federal banking agency to be consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan or unless the FDIC determines that the proposed action will further the purpose of prompt corrective action) and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The agencies may not accept a capital restoration plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with the capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company is limited to the lesser of an amount equal to 5.0% of the depository institution’s total assets at the time it became categorized as undercapitalized or the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is categorized as significantly-undercapitalized. Significantly-undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become categorized as adequately-capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. The 17 Table of Contents appropriate federal banking agency may take any action authorized for a significantly-undercapitalized institution if an undercapitalized institution fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fails, in any material respect, to implement a plan accepted by the agency. A critically-undercapitalized institution is subject to having a receiver or conservator appointed to manage its affairs and to loss of its charter to conduct banking activities. An insured depository institution may not pay a management fee to a bank holding company controlling that institution or any other person having control of the institution if, after making the payment, the institution would be undercapitalized. In addition, an institution cannot make a capital distribution, such as a dividend or other distribution that is in substance a distribution of capital to the owners of the institution if, following such a distribution, the institution would be undercapitalized. Thus, if payment of such a management fee or the making of such would cause a bank to become undercapitalized, it could not pay a management fee or dividend to the bank holding company. At December 31, 2011, all of our capital ratios exceeded the well-capitalized regulatory minimum thresholds as well as the minimum capital ratios established in the Consent Order. For additional disclosure regarding the capital ratios and leverage ratio of the Company and the Bank, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 22, Regulatory Capital Requirements and Dividend Restrictions. FDICIA FDICIA and regulations implementing the FDICIA require, among other things, that management report on the institution’s responsibility for preparing financial statements, establishing and maintaining an internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and compliance with designated laws and regulations concerning safety and soundness. The final regulations also require that independent registered public accounting firms attest to, and report separately on, assertions in management’s reports regarding compliance with such laws and regulations using FDIC-approved audit procedures. These regulations apply to financial institutions with assets greater than $1 billion at the beginning of their fiscal year. Accordingly, the Bank is subject to these regulations. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) The Sarbanes-Oxley Act was signed into law in 2002 in response to public concerns regarding corporate accountability in connection with certain accounting scandals. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act includes very specific additional disclosure requirements and corporate governance rules and required the SEC and securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosure, corporate governance and related rules and mandates. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the accounting profession, and to state corporate law, such as the relationship between a board of directors and management and between a board of directors and its committees. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires certain SEC registrants to maintain internal control over financial reporting. Deposit Insurance The Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF and are subject to deposit insurance assessments. The FDIC amended its risk-based assessment system for 2007 to implement authority granted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005. The DIF is the successor to the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund, which were merged effective March 31, 2006. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of, and to require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity that the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the insurance fund. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against financial institutions and may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution, including the Bank, if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe 18 Table of Contents or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, shall continue to be insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. FDIC-insured institutions are also required to pay Financing Corporation (“FICO”) assessments, in order to fund the interest on bonds issued to resolve financial institutions’ failures in the 1980s. Under regulations effective January 1, 2007, the FDIC adopted a new risk-based premium system that provides for quarterly assessments based on an insured institution’s ranking in one of four risk categories based upon supervisory and capital evaluations. Assessment rates depend on the category to which an institution is assigned. In October 2008, the EESA increased FDIC deposit insurance on most accounts from $100 thousand to $250 thousand. In July 2010, this increase was made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the FDIC’s Transaction Account Guarantee Program (the “TAGP”) provides that all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully guaranteed by the FDIC for the entire amount of the account through December 31, 2012. During 2009, the FDIC implemented an industry-wide special assessment to bolster the FDIC insurance fund. The FDIC imposed a 5 basis point special assessment on assets less Tier 1 capital with a cap of 10 basis points times deposits. This incremental special assessment was paid by the Bank to the FDIC at the end of the third quarter 2009. Also effective in 2009, initial base assessment rates were increased by seven basis points to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. Based on these factors, our FDIC general assessment rates in 2009 and 2010 increased. The increase in the general assessment was the result of a change in the FDIC assessment matrix, an increase in our deposit base on which the assessment is calculated over the periods presented and our total risk-based capital ratio falling below the well-capitalized category during the period. In February 2011, the FDIC approved two rules that amended the deposit insurance assessment regulations. The first rule changed the assessment base from one based on domestic deposits to one based on assets. The assessment base changed from adjusted domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity. The second rule changed the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions in conjunction with guidance in the Dodd-Frank Act. Since the new base would be much larger than the current base, the FDIC lowered assessment rates which achieved the FDIC’s goal of not significantly altering the total amount of revenue collected from the industry. Risk categories and debt ratings were eliminated from the assessment calculation for large banks which now use scorecards. The scorecards include financial measures that are predictive of long-term performance. A large financial institution is defined as an insured depository institution with at least $10 billion in assets. Both changes in the assessment system were effective as of April 1, 2011. As a result of the capital received in connection with the Private Placement consummated in October 2010, our total risk-based capital ratio has improved, and, accordingly, our FDIC general assessments decreased in 2011. FDIC general assessments also declined as a result of the change in assessment regulations that went into effect on April 1, 2011 as noted above. In September 2009, the FDIC adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to require insured financial institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Unlike special assessments, prepaid assessments did not immediately impact earnings but required a cash outlay for the full amount of the prepaid assessment. We applied for, and received, an exemption to the prepayment assessment which would have required a cash payment to the FDIC of $10.6 million in December 2009. Having been granted the waiver, we continue to pay our FDIC insurance premiums on a quarterly basis. In December 2010, the FDIC voted to increase the required amount of reserves for the designated reserve ratio to 2.0%. The ratio is higher than the 1.35% set by the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010 and is an integral part of the FDIC’s comprehensive, long-range management plan for the DIF. 19 Table of Contents Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”) The CRA requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the lending needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the lending needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing loans to low and moderate income individuals and communities. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community consistent with the CRA. A financial institution’s performance is periodically evaluated in the context of information about the institution (financial condition and business strategies), its community (demographic and economic data) and its competitors. Upon completion of a CRA examination, the FDIC rates the overall CRA performance of the financial institution using a four-tiered rating system. These ratings consist of outstanding, satisfactory, needs to improve and substantial noncompliance. For a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA or to acquire any company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least satisfactory in its most recent examination under the CRA. Furthermore, banking regulators consider CRA ratings when considering approval of a proposed transaction. The CRA requires public disclosure of an institution’s CRA rating. Our latest CRA rating, as of March 2009, was satisfactory. Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. Various legal limitations restrict the Bank from lending or otherwise supplying funds to the Company. The Company and the Bank are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Regulation W. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act places limits on the amount of loans or extensions of credit to, or investments in, or certain other transactions with, affiliates and on the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates. The aggregate of all covered transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. Furthermore, within the foregoing limitations as to amount, each covered transaction must meet specified collateral requirements. The Bank is forbidden to purchase low-quality assets from an affiliate. Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, among other things, prohibits an institution from engaging in certain transactions with certain affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to such institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. Regulation W generally excludes all nonbank and nonsavings association subsidiaries of banks from treatment as affiliates, except to the extent that the Federal Reserve decides to treat these subsidiaries as affiliates. The regulation also limits the amount of loans that can be purchased by a bank from an affiliate to not more than 100% of the bank’s capital and surplus. The Bank is also subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, certain principal shareholders and their related interests. Such extensions of credit (i) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties and (ii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. As noted above, effective as of July 21, 2011, the Dodd—Frank Act enacted several changes with respect to transactions with affiliates and insiders. Branching Under current South Carolina law, we may open branch offices throughout South Carolina with the prior approval of the State Board. In addition, with prior regulatory approval, the Bank will be able to acquire existing banking operations in South Carolina. Furthermore, federal legislation permits interstate branching, including 20 Table of Contents out-of-state acquisitions by bank holding companies, interstate branching by banks and interstate merging by banks. The Dodd-Frank Act removes previous state law restrictions on de novo interstate branching in states such as South Carolina. This change permits out-of-state banks to open de novo branches in states where the laws of the state in which the de novo branch is to be opened would permit a bank chartered by that state to open a de novo branch. Anti-Tying Restrictions Under amendments to the BHCA and Federal Reserve regulations, a bank is prohibited from engaging in certain tying or reciprocity arrangements with its customers. In general, a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for these on the condition that (i) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property or services from or to the bank, the bank holding company or subsidiaries thereof or (ii) the customer may not obtain some other credit, property or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. However, certain arrangements are permissible. For example, a bank may offer combined-balance products and may otherwise offer more favorable terms if a client obtains two or more traditional bank products. In addition, certain foreign transactions are exempt from the general rule. A bank holding company or any bank affiliate is also subject to anti-tying requirements in connection with electronic benefit transfer services. Finance Subsidiaries Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLBA”), subject to certain conditions imposed by their respective banking regulators, national and state-chartered banks are permitted to form financial subsidiaries that may conduct financial or incidental activities thereby permitting bank subsidiaries to engage in certain activities that previously were impermissible. The GLBA imposes several safeguards and restrictions on financial subsidiaries including that the parent bank’s equity investment in the financial subsidiary be deducted from the bank’s assets and tangible equity for purposes of calculating the bank’s capital adequacy. In addition, the GLBA imposes new restrictions on transactions between a bank and its financial subsidiaries similar to restrictions applicable to transactions between banks and nonbank affiliates. Financial Privacy In accordance with the GLBA, federal banking regulators adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. Consumer Protection Regulations Activities of the Bank are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by the Bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws regarding interest rates. The Bank’s loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as: • The federal Truth-In-Lending Act governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers, • The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves, • The Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit, • The Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies, certain identity theft protections and certain credit and other disclosures, 21 Table of Contents • The Fair Debt Collection Act governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies, and • The rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing these federal laws. The deposit operations of the Bank also are subject to: • The Right to Financial Privacy Act imposing a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribing procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records, and • The Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve to implement that Act governing automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automatic teller machines and other electronic banking services. As noted above, in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, in July 2011, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection began operations and is responsible for implementing, examining, and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws. Enforcement Powers The Bank and its institution-affiliated parties, including its management, teammates, agents, independent contractors and consultants such as attorneys and accountants and others who participate in the conduct of the financial institution’s affairs, are subject to potential civil and criminal penalties for violations of law, regulations or written orders of a government agency. These practices can include the failure of an institution to timely file required reports, the filing of false or misleading information or the submission of inaccurate reports. Civil penalties may be as high as $1 million per day for such violations. Prison sentences for criminal violations for some financial institution crimes have been increased to 20 years. In addition, regulators are provided with greater flexibility to commence enforcement actions against institutions and institution-affiliated parties. Possible enforcement actions include the termination of deposit insurance. Furthermore, a banking agencies’ power to issue cease and desist orders was expanded. Such orders may, among other things, require affirmative action to correct any harm resulting from a violation or practice including restitution, reimbursement, indemnifications or guarantees against loss. A financial institution may also be ordered to restrict its growth, dispose of certain assets, rescind agreements or contracts or take other actions as determined by the ordering agency to be appropriate. Anti-Money Laundering Financial institutions must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls, a designated compliance officer, an ongoing teammate training program and testing of the program by an independent audit function. The Company and the Bank are also prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence and “knowing your customer” in dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions. Recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks. Anti-money laundering obligations have been substantially strengthened as a result of the USA PATRIOT Act. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. The regulatory authorities have been active in imposing cease and desist orders and monetary sanctions against institutions found to be in violation of these obligations. USA PATRIOT Act The USA PATRIOT Act became effective in 2001, amended, in part, the Bank Secrecy Act and provides, in part, for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the 22 Table of Contents purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering by enhancing anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: (i) requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening, (ii) rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering, (iii) reports by nonfinancial trades and businesses filed with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000, (iv) filing suspicious activities reports by brokers and dealers if they believe a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations, and (v) requires enhanced due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for nonU.S. persons. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. Under the USA PATRIOT Act, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) can send our banking regulatory agencies lists of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities. The Bank can be requested to search its records for any relationships or transactions with persons on those lists. If the Bank finds any relationships or transactions, it must file a suspicious activity report and contact the FBI. The Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which is a division of the U.S. Treasury, is responsible for helping to insure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with “enemies” of the U.S., as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC has sent, and will send, our banking regulatory agencies lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts. If the Bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, it must freeze the account, file a suspicious activity report, and, as appropriate, notify the FBI. The Bank actively checks high-risk OFAC areas such as new accounts, wire transfers and customer files. The Bank performs these checks utilizing software, which is updated each time a modification is made to the lists provided by OFAC and other agencies of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Privacy and Credit Reporting Financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Clients generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing nonpublic personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except under narrow circumstances such as the processing of transactions requested by the consumer or when the financial institution is jointly sponsoring a product or service with a nonaffiliated third party. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing to consumers. It is the Bank’s policy not to disclose any personal information unless required by law. Like other lending institutions, the Bank utilizes credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the Federal Credit Reporting Act on a uniform, nationwide basis including credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the “FACT Act”) authorizes states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of the FACT Act. Check 21 The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act gives substitute checks, such as a digital image of a check and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check. Some of the major provisions include: • Allowing check truncation without making it mandatory, • Demanding that every financial institution communicate to accountholders in writing a description of its substitute check processing program and their rights under the law, • Legalizing substitutions for, and replacements of, paper checks without agreement from consumers, 23 Table of Contents • Retaining in place the previously mandated electronic collection and return of checks between financial institutions only when individual agreements are in place, • Requiring that when accountholders request verification, financial institutions produce the original check (or a copy that accurately represents the original) and demonstrate that the account debit was accurate and valid, and • Requiring the re-crediting of funds to an individual’s account on the next business day after a consumer proves that the financial institution has erred. Impact of Governmental Monetary Policies Our results of operations are impacted by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve’s monetary policies have had, and are likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have major impacts upon the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its open market operations in U.S. government securities, its regulation of the discount rate on borrowings of member banks and its regulation of the reserve requirements against member bank deposits. It is not possible to predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that impact transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. Such sanctions are typically known as the OFAC rules as a result of their administration by the U.S. Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control. The OFAC administered sanctions take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: • Restrictions on trade with, or investment in, a sanctioned country including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country, and / or • A blocking of assets in which the government or specially-designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets, such as property and bank deposits, cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions can result in serious legal and reputational consequences. Incentive Compensation In June 2010, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers all teammates that have the ability to materially impact the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. The Federal Reserve will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as the Company, that are not “large, complex banking 24 Table of Contents organizations.” These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization’s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can impact the organization’s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness, and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives From time to time, various legislative and regulatory initiatives are introduced in Congress and state legislatures as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or impact the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the impact that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company or the Bank could have a material impact on the business of the Company. Available Information Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. One may access, read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We file reports electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file reports electronically. This site may be accessed at www.sec.gov. Documents filed by us electronically with the SEC may be accessed through this website. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as select other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible at no cost on our website, www.palmettobank.com, through the Investor Relations link. Other documents filed with, or furnished to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are accessible at no cost on the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) or through written request directed to 306 East North Street, Greenville, South Carolina 29601, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. In addition, through the Investor Relations link, we make available our Code of Ethics as well as various other corporate governance information. We will provide a printed copy of any of the aforementioned documents to any requesting shareholder. Such requests should be directed to 306 East North Street, Greenville, South Carolina 29601, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes impact the Company are described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted. If this were to happen, the value of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We have entered into a Consent Order under which our regulators will require us to take certain actions. In November 2009, the FDIC and the State Board conducted their annual joint examination of the Bank. As a result of the examination, the Bank agreed to the issuance of the Consent Order, effective June 10, 2010, with the FDIC and the State Board. The Consent Order seeks to enhance the Bank’s existing practices and procedures in the areas of credit quality, liquidity, earnings, capital and other areas. In response to the Company’s negative financial results and in preparation for the FDIC and the State Board (collectively, the “Supervisory Authorities”) annual joint examination, in June 2009 our Board of Directors and management adopted, and began executing, a proactive and aggressive Strategic Project Plan (the “Plan”) to address the issues related to credit quality, liquidity, earnings and capital. Since June 2009, our Board of Directors and management have been, and continue to be, keenly focused on executing the Plan and, through execution of this Plan, have already complied with numerous requirements of the Consent Order. Specific to the capital requirements of the Consent Order, on October 7, 2010 we consummated the Private Placement transaction pursuant to which we issued 9,993,995 shares of our common stock at $10.40 per share for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $103.9 million, which resulted in the Company and the Bank being categorized as well-capitalized. We intend to take all actions necessary to enable the Bank to comply with the requirements of the Consent Order, and, as of the date hereof, we have submitted all documentation required as of this date to the Supervisory Authorities. There can be no assurance that the Bank will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Consent Order, and the determination of our compliance will be made by the Supervisory Authorities. However, we believe that we are currently in compliance with all provisions of the Consent Order except for the requirement to reduce the total amount of our classified assets at September 30, 2009 by a total of 75% by May 30, 2012. The Consent Order requires a reduction in classified assets by specified percentages by certain dates with the most recent date being December 2, 2011 when a 65% ($140.5 million) reduction in classified assets was required from the September 30, 2009 balances. As of December 2, 2011, the Bank had reduced its classified assets by $151.7 million, which was more than the amount necessary to meet the December 2, 2011 deadline. The next and final deadline under the Consent Order is May 30, 2012, when a cumulative 75% ($162.1 million) reduction in classified assets from the September 30, 2009 balance is required. As of February 24, 2012, the Bank has reduced its classified assets by 74.2% ($160.4 million). Failure to meet the requirements of the Consent Order could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, the Supervisory Authorities may amend the Consent Order based on the results of their ongoing examinations. We may have higher actual loan losses than we have allowed for in our allowance for loan losses. Our actual loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses, and, therefore, our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 62.6% of our loan portfolio, including commercial loans held for sale, was secured by commercial real estate. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent, and that a portion of loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control including, among other things, changes in market conditions impacting the value of loan collateral and problems impacting borrower credit. In September 2010, we began marketing for sale a pool of specifically identified commercial loans. Our marketing efforts continued through 2011 and are expected to continue into 2012. We are evaluating proposed sales on a loan-by-loan basis and are balancing the desire to reduce problem loans with the potential negative earnings impact and related preservation of capital. Although not all sales would result in losses, in general, we believe potential buyers are making bids at heavily discounted prices given the need for the banking industry, in general, and our Company, in particular, to deleverage commercial real estate assets. We believe that this was 26 Table of Contents particularly true in the fourth quarters of 2010 and 2011 as banks sought to rid themselves of problem assets prior to year-end. While bid prices on selected assets generally improved in 2011, many bids continued to reflect heavy discounting. In many cases, we did not accept certain discounted bids. In some cases, however, we made the strategic decision to sell certain assets at amounts less than their recorded book values to continue to reduce our classified assets and concentration in commercial real estate as required by the Consent Order. To date, we have sold commercial loans held for sale with a gross book value of $19.2 million. In limited circumstances, due to a positive change in the borrower’s financial condition, we have transferred loans from held for sale back to loans held for investment. At December 31, 2011, the carrying value of commercial loans held for sale was $14.2 million compared to $66.2 million at December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that the loans will be sold or that the bids offered will be at the currently recorded balances. Accordingly, to the extent that we accept bids for these loans, we may receive significantly less than the current net carrying amount of the loans and incur a corresponding loss on any such loan sales, which would result in incremental losses. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate and a continued downturn in commercial real estate could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2011, 62.6% of our loan portfolio, including commercial loans held for sale, was secured by commercial real estate. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally viewed as having more risk of default than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans are generally more risky than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because those loans are typically not secured by real estate collateral. An adverse development with respect to one lending relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared with a single-family residential mortgage loan because we typically have more than one loan with such borrowers. Additionally, these loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared with single-family residential mortgage loans. Therefore, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant decline in the related asset quality. In addition, many economists believe that deterioration in income-producing, commercial real estate is likely to worsen as vacancy rates continue to rise and absorption rates of existing square footage and/or units continue to decline. Because of the general economic slowdown we are currently experiencing, these loans represent higher risk, could result in a sharp increase in loans charged-off and could require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. At December 31, 2011, approximately 87.0% of our loans, including commercial loans held for sale, had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. We have identified credit concerns with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio which are primarily related to the downturn in the real estate market. The real estate market has been substantially impacted by the current economic environment, increased levels of inventories of unsold homes and higher foreclosure rates. As a result, property values for this type of collateral have declined substantially and market appraisal assumptions continue to trend downward significantly. These loans carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing real estate since repayment is dependent on the ultimate completion of the project or home and often on the sale of the property or permanent financing. Slow housing conditions have impacted some of these borrowers’ ability to sell the completed projects in a timely manner, and we believe that these trends are likely to continue. In some cases, this downturn has resulted in a significant impairment in the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. As a result, beginning in 2009 and continuing through 2011, we incurred substantially higher charge-offs than we have historically experienced, and we increased our allowance for loan losses during these periods to address the probable credit risks inherent 27 Table of Contents within our loan portfolio. Further deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market may cause us to adjust our opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to an additional increase in our provisions for loan losses, which could also adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. In response to the challenges facing the financial services sector, a number of regulatory and governmental actions have been enacted or announced. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets generally with the expectation of continued uncertainty in 2012. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performance deteriorated at many institutions, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets and bank holding company stock prices in particular have been negatively impacted as has the general ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations including issuing a historically high number of formal enforcement orders over the past three years. In addition, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including without limitation, the EESA and the Dodd-Frank Act, have been adopted. Furthermore, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations by issuing formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets and the impact of new legislation and bank examination practices in response to those developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will impact us. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle-market clients. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important client sector, our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Our decisions regarding credit risk and allowance for loan losses may materially and adversely impact our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is impacted by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the credit, • credit risks of a particular client, • changes in economic and industry conditions, and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for inherent losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • evaluations of the collectability of loans in our portfolio including consideration of factors such as the balance of impaired loans and the quality, mix and size of our overall loan portfolio, • economic conditions that may impact the overall loan portfolio or an individual borrower’s ability to repay, • the amount and quality of collateral securing the loans, • our historical loan loss experience, and • borrower and collateral specific considerations for loans individually evaluated for impairment. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses. Therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses, and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income (or increase in our net loss) and possibly our capital. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision for loan losses or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continuation of the economic downturn could reduce our client base, level of deposits and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets. The current economic downturn has negatively impacted the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A continuation of the economic downturn or prolonged recession would likely result in the continued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest and fees on loans represented approximately 92.4% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010, and 85.9% for the year ended December 31, 2011. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely impacted by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively impacted. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not 29 Table of Contents able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely impact our business. Liquidity risks could impact operations and jeopardize our financial condition. The goal of liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet client loan requests, client deposit maturities and withdrawals and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this goal, our Asset/Liability Committee establishes liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding requirements and to avoid overdependence on volatile, less reliable funding sources. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, retail repurchase agreements, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans, issuance of additional equity securities and other sources could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities and with terms acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that impact us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us such as the current disruption in the financial markets and negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a result of the continuing turmoil and deterioration in the credit markets. Historically, we have relied on deposits, retail repurchase agreements, advances from the FHLB, funding from correspondent banks and other borrowings to fund our operations. As a result of negative financial performance indicators, some of the Bank’s various sources of liquidity are now restricted. The Bank’s credit risk rating at the FHLB has been negatively impacted, resulting in more restrictive borrowing requirements. During most of 2010, the FHLB would not allow us to borrow incremental advances. However, in December 2010, the FHLB informed us that our contingent funding ability had been restored up to 10% of our total assets based on meeting certain collateral requirements. From January 2010 to March 2011, the maximum maturity for potential borrowings was overnight. Effective March 2011, we may borrow from the FHLB for terms up to 3 years subject to availability of collateral. In June 2011, we were notified by the FHLB that our borrowing capacity had been increased from 10% of total assets to 15% of total assets. In addition, the maximum maturity for Federal Reserve Discount Window borrowings is overnight. Any future potential borrowings from the Federal Reserve Discount Window are at the secondary credit rate and must be used for operational issues, and the Federal Reserve has the discretion to deny approval of borrowing requests. We actively monitor the depository institutions that hold our federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. We cannot provide assurances that access to our cash and cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and we diversify cash, due from banks and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure relating to any one of these entities. We routinely review the financials of our counterparties as part of our risk management process. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the correspondent financial institutions fail. Due to the Consent Order, we may not accept brokered deposits unless a waiver is granted by the FDIC. Although we currently do not utilize brokered deposits as a funding source, if we were to seek to begin using such funding source, there is no assurance that the FDIC would grant us the approval when requested. These restrictions could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. Additionally, we would normally be restricted from offering an effective yield on deposits of more than 75 basis points over the national rates published by the FDIC weekly on their website. However, we were notified by the FDIC that they had 30 Table of Contents determined that the geographic areas in which we operate were considered high-rate areas. Accordingly, we are able to offer interest rates on deposits up to 75 basis points over the prevailing interest rates in our geographic areas. There can be no assurance that our sources of funds will be adequate for our liquidity needs, and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Specifically, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively impacted by the recent adverse economic conditions as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects could be materially adversely impacted. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely impact our financial condition. As previously disclosed in Item 1. Business, the Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain deposit insurance. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Although we cannot predict what the insurance assessment rates will be in the future, deterioration in either our risk-based capital ratios or adjustments to the FDIC’s base assessment rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The FDIC may terminate deposit insurance of any insured depository institution if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. It may also suspend deposit insurance temporarily if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, shall continue to be insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. One of the key measures of our success is our amount of net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. We are subject to interest rate risk because: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling, net income will initially decline), • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when the general level of interest rates is falling, we may reduce rates interest paid on transaction and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest rates), • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield curve may impact new or repricing loan yields and funding costs differently), and/or • The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the investment securities available for sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income). 31 Table of Contents Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volumes, the mortgage-servicing rights portfolio, the value of our pension plan assets and liabilities and other financial instruments directly or indirectly impacting net income. We may be unable to anticipate changes in market interest rates, which are impacted by many factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, monetary policy and other changes that impact financial markets. In the event rates increase, our costs on interest-bearing liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest earning assets resulting in a deterioration of net interest margins. As such, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face strong competition for clients, which could prevent us from obtaining clients and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract clients. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage-banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, to grow our business we generally have to attract our client base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We may be adversely impacted by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Bank cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Bank. Any such losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could experience a loss due to competition with other financial institutions. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. The financial services industry has and is experiencing an ongoing trend towards consolidation in which fewer large national and regional banks and other financial institutions are replacing many smaller and more local banks. These larger banks and other financial institutions hold a large accumulation of assets and have significantly greater resources and a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. In some instances, these larger entities operate without the traditional brick and mortar facilities that restrict geographic presence. Some competitors are able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater client conveniences than our Bank. In addition, competition has increased from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential clients. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect other smaller institutions to try to compete in the markets in which we serve. 32 Table of Contents Technological developments have allowed competitors, including some nondepository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target clients. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in the industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We are exposed to the possibility that increased prepayments may be made by clients to repay loan balances, which could reduce our income and profitability. Prepayment rates stem from consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general U.S. economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans. Therefore, changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Recognition of deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating or purchasing these loans are normally recognized over the expected life of each loan. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are recognized will accelerate. The impact of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time, which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the impact of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment to interest income over the expected life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in a period of declining interest rates. We are dependent on key management individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely impact our prospects. We depend on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other personnel may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. As a result, our Board of Directors may have to search outside of the Bank for qualified permanent replacements. This search may be prolonged, and we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to locate and hire qualified replacements. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly-regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the impacts of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly impacts the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely impact our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. To comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have previously hired external consultants to assist with our internal audit and internal control functions. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 33 Table of Contents We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required to comply with management’s certification for 2011. In the event internal control deficiencies are identified in the future that we are unable to remediate in a timely manner or if we are not able to maintain the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could be subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors and regulators could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We currently anticipate that we will continue to comply with the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are exposed to further changes in the regulation of financial services companies. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America and the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. On September 7, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced that Freddie Mac (along with Fannie Mae) had been placed into conservatorship under the control of the newly created Federal Housing Finance Agency. On October 3, 2008, EESA was signed into law, and on October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced its Capital Purchase Program under EESA. In November 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule to require FDIC-insured banks to prepay the fourth quarter assessment and the next three years assessment by December 31, 2009. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. Pursuant to authority granted under the Dodd-Frank Act, effective on October 1, 2011, the Federal Reserve established new rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion. While we are not subject to the interchange fee restrictions, the new restrictions could negatively impact bankcard services income for smaller banks if the reductions that are required of larger banks cause an industry-wide reduction of swipe fees. In December 2010, the Basel Committee revised final frameworks for the regulation of capital and liquidity of internationally-active banking organizations. Although the U.S. banking agencies have not yet published a notice of proposed rulemaking to implement Basel III in the United States, they are likely to do so (at least with respect to the Basel III capital framework) during the first half of 2012. In addition to Basel III, Dodd-Frank requires or permits the Federal banking agencies to adopt regulations impacting banking institutions’ capital requirements in a number of respects including potentially more stringent capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse impact on our business. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. For additional disclosure regarding related material risks and uncertainties, see Risk Factor, We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities above. If we grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities and under terms of the Consent Order to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. If we grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, existing shareholder interests could be diluted. 34 Table of Contents We will face risks with respect to expansion through acquisitions, mergers or other business expansion. From time to time we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or a portion of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to,: • the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operational, management and market risks with respect to a target institution, • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management and opening new offices, the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion, • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse impacts on our results of operations, and • the risk of loss of key teammates and clients. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and such expansion may not result in the levels of profits we seek. Integration efforts for any future mergers and acquisitions may not be successful, and, following any future merger or acquisition after giving it effect, we may not achieve our expected benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frame, if at all. We are not currently eligible to participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions of assets and liabilities of failed banks, and there can be no assurances that we will be eligible to participate in such acquisitions in the future or that, if we were eligible, we would seek to participate in such acquisitions. However, we may possibly seek opportunities in the future to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. FDIC-assisted acquisitions present the risks of general acquisitions as well as some risks specific to these transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions often provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, which may include loss-sharing where the FDIC absorbs most losses on covered assets and provides some indemnity, we would be subject to many of the same risks faced when acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction without FDIC assistance. Such risks could include, among others, risks associated with pricing such transactions, the risks of loss of deposits and maintaining client relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may require additional resources and time. For example, we may be required to service acquired problem loans, incur costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, establish processes to service acquired assets or raise additional capital, which may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we decide to participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions and are unable to manage these risks, then such acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our underwriting decisions may materially and adversely impact our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines or both. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio as well as the amount of resulting credit losses. We are exposed to the possibility of technology failure or security breaches. We rely on our computer systems and the technology of outside service providers. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of this technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources become unreliable, fail or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially impact our business operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Failure to comply with government regulation and supervision could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and damage to our reputation. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities. Given the current disruption in the financial markets, we expect that the U.S. government will continue to pass new regulations and laws that will impact us. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and damage to our reputation. While we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to prevent violations of these laws, regulations and policies, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. If our deferred tax asset continues to remain impaired in the future, our earnings and capital position may continue to be adversely impacted. Deferred income tax represents the tax impact of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by us to determine if they are realizable. Factors in our determination include the ability to carry back or carry forward net operating losses and the performance of the business including the ability to generate taxable income from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset must be established with a corresponding charge to income tax expense. As of December 31, 2011, prior to any valuation allowance, net deferred tax assets totaling $28.1 million were recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Based on our projections of future taxable income over the next three years, cumulative tax losses over the previous three years, net operating loss carryforward limitations, as disclosed below, and available tax planning strategies, we maintained a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2011. The Private Placement consummated in October 2010 was considered a change in control under the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations. Accordingly, we were required to evaluate potential limitation or deferral of our ability to carry forward preacquisition net operating losses and to determine the amount of net unrealized preacquisition built-in losses (“NUBIL”), which may be subject to similar limitation or deferral. Under the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations, NUBIL realized within 5 years of the change in control are subject to potential limitation, which for the Company is October 7, 2015. Through that date, we will continue to analyze our ability to utilize such losses to offset anticipated future taxable income as preacquisition built-in losses are ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2011, we currently estimate that future utilization of net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses of $53 million generated prior to October 7, 2010 will be limited to $1.1 million per year. In addition, the Company currently estimates that $7.7 million to $9.0 million of the built-in losses may not ultimately be realized. However, this estimate will not be known until the five-year limitation period expires in October 2015. Analysis of our ability to realize deferred tax assets requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently subjective because it requires the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. While we maintained a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset for financial reporting purposes at December 31, 2011, the net operating losses and net realized built-in losses are able to be carried forward for income tax purposes up to twenty years. Thus, to the extent we return to profitability and generate sufficient taxable income in the future, we will be able to utilize some of the net operating losses and net realized built-in losses for income tax purposes and reverse a portion of the valuation allowance for financial reporting purposes. The determination of how much of the net operating losses and net realized built-in losses we will be able to utilize and, therefore, how much of the valuation allowance that may be reversed and the timing is based on our future results of operations and the amount and timing of actual loan charge-offs and asset writedowns. 36 Table of Contents We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a client’s audited financial statements conform to GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the client. Our earnings are significantly impacted by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner or rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be impacted because we are exposed to conditions or assumptions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that impact the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto. Our critical accounting policies included in this document describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements that are considered critical by us because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, such events or assumptions could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures. Negative public opinion surrounding the Company and the banking industry in general could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion surrounding the Company and the banking industry in general, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely impact our ability to keep and attract clients and teammates and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is restricted. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since the first quarter 2009. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for such dividends. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and have historically relied on dividends from the Bank as a viable source of funds to service our operating expenses, which typically include dividends to holders of our common stock. However, given the Bank’s recent losses and the restrictions imposed by the Consent Order with the Supervisory Authorities, this source of liquidity is not currently available nor is it expected to be available for the foreseeable future. The Company and the Bank are subject to regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. Federal regulatory authorities are authorized to determine under certain circumstances that the payment of dividends by a bank holding company or a bank would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment of those dividends. Federal regulatory authorities have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current income. In addition, as a South Carolina chartered bank, the Bank is subject to limitations on the amount of dividends that it is permitted to pay. 37 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, which may dilute the interests of our shareholders and may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 12,744,001 shares were outstanding as of February 24, 2012, and up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock, of which no shares are outstanding. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the remaining authorized but unissued shares and to establish the terms of any series of preferred stock. We may seek additional equity capital in the future as we expand our operations. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in earnings, initiation of coverage by analysts and their resulting recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and nontraditional competitors, news reports of trends, concerns, irrational exuberance on the part of investors and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely impact the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our investors to resell their common stock when they desire and at prices they find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business. Future sales of our stock by our shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”), the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. The relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market or the perception that those sales may occur could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Because there is a limited public trading market for our common stock, investors that purchase our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. As a result, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them or may not be able to resell them at all. For additional disclosure, see Risk Factor, Future sales of our stock by our shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our stock price to decline. 38 Table of Contents Our common stock is controlled by one or more shareholders whose interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. CapGen Financial Partners (“CapGen”) and its affiliates and Patriot Financial Partners (“Patriot”) and its affiliates own approximately 44.9% and 19.0%, respectively, of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 24, 2012. As a result, CapGen and Patriot are able, individually and collectively, to exercise significant influence on our business as shareholders including influence over election of our Board of Directors and the authorization of other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. In deciding on how to vote on certain proposals, our shareholders should be aware that CapGen and Patriot may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our other shareholders. A holder with as little as a 5% interest in our Company could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” and possibly other restrictions. Any entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, or 5% or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over us, may be subject to regulation as a bank holding company in accordance with the BHCA. In addition, (1) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and (2) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain regulatory approval under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens and might require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in our common stock. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such a holder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking. Further, subject to an FDIC policy statement published in August 2009, under certain circumstances, holders of 5% or more of our securities could be required to be subject to certain restrictions such as an inability to sell or trade their securities for a period of three years, among others, in order for us to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction of a failed bank. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 