ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes impact the Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described, however, are not the only ones facing the Company. If the Company is subjected to any of the following risks, its business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be impacted in a materially adverse manner. Additional risks and uncertainties of which management is not aware may also impair the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Risk to Net Interest Income Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. See Economic Risk and Monetary Policy Risk, included elsewhere in this item, for further discussions regarding risk associated with general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. If the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster rate than the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely impact. Net income could also be adversely impacted if the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets decline more quickly than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Over the past two years, interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities have increased at a faster rate than the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets. See Item 7A. Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk contained herein for discussion regarding the impact that changing interest rates would have on the Company’s net interest income over the coming 12 month period. Loan Prepayment Risk Loan prepayment rates are impacted by changes in interest rates charged on mortgage loans as well, to a lesser extent, by consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, and general economic conditions. Although changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict, prepayment rates tend to increase when market interest rates decline. The following narrative summarizes risks associated with the Company’s mortgage loan portfolio resulting from increased loan prepayments. Since September 2007, the Federal Reserve took action to reduce the prime and federal funds interest rate by 225 basis points. The Company anticipates that this decline in interest rates may result in an increase in loan prepayments in the foreseeable future. 16 Table of Contents Impact on Deferred Fees and Costs. The Company recognizes deferred loan origination fees and costs by adjusting interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination fees and costs are expensed accelerates. Impact on Premiums Paid on Mortgage-Backed Securities. The Company recognizes premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment to interest income over the life of the investment security based on the rate of repayment of the investment securities. Prepayment on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security thereby increasing the rate at which premiums are expensed. Impact on Mortgage-Servicing Rights Portfolio. The Company’s mortgage-servicing rights portfolio represents the estimated present value of fees the Company expects to receive on mortgages that it services over an expected term. If prepayments increase above expected levels, the value of the servicing asset decreases because the amount of future fees expected to be received by the Company decreases. The Company may be required to recognize this decrease in value by taking a charge against income. In the past the value of the Company’s mortgage-servicing rights portfolio has decreased at times as a result of increased prepayments resulting in charges against income. An increase in loan prepayments, most often resulting from a decline in interest rates with regard to the Company’s servicing asset, on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Funds Reinvestment Risk. With regard to the Company’s loan portfolio, it may be unable to reinvest prepayment proceeds at rates comparable to the prepaid instruments particularly in periods of declining interest rates. Lending Activities Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the specific markets where the Company operates as well as those regionally, nationally, and internationally. Increases in interest rates and / or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations or the value of the collateral securing these loans. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained herein for discussion regarding the Company’s underwriting and monitoring policies and procedures mitigating risks inherent in the Company’s lending activities. Repayment and Collateral Risk Risk arises from the possibility that the Company could experience loan losses because borrowers, guarantors, and / or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, and that the Company’s underwriting and loan monitoring policies and procedures adopted to address such risks may not prevent unexpected losses. At December 31, 2007, approximately 70% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate loans. Construction and commercial real estate loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Commercial and industrial loans are generally more risky that residential real estate or consumer loans because such loans are typically not secured by real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. Many of the Company’s commercial and construction borrowers have more than one outstanding loan. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one lending relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared with an adverse development with respect to a single family 17 Table of Contents residential mortgage loan. Additionally, since these loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared with single family residential mortgage loans, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant decline in the related asset quality. A decline in asset quality could result in a loss of income from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loans charged-off, all of which could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Management believes that the properties securing the Company’s commercial real estate portfolio are diverse in terms of type. This diversity helps reduce the Company’s exposure to adverse economic events that impact any single industry. The Company is subject to risk with regard to its installment loans particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted installment loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, installment loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability and are more likely to be adversely impacted by job loss, divorce, illness, and / or personal bankruptcy. Additionally, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that the Company can recover on such loans. Real Estate Market Risk At December 31, 2007, approximately 83% of the Company’s loan portfolio was secured by real estate. Although the Company believes that there is generally less risk associated with loans secured by real estate than with those not secured by real estate a downturn in the real estate markets could impact the collateral securing the Company’s loan portfolio. Real estate values and markets are generally impacted by social, economic, physical / environmental, and government factors many of which are beyond the Company’s control. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing the Company’s loans could be reduced. Inadequate Allowance for Loan Losses to Cover Actual Losses Risk Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan loss reserve that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance for loan losses, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses methodology is based on historical loss experience by type of loan, specific homogeneous risk pools, and specific loss allocations. The Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is designed to account for loan deterioration as it occurs. The provision for loan losses reflects loan quality trends, including the levels of and trends related to nonaccrual loans, past due loans, potential problem loans, criticized loans, and net loans charged-off or recovered, among other factors. The provision for loan losses also reflects the totality of actions taken on all loans for a particular period. In other words, the amount of the provision reflects not only the necessary increases in the allowance for loan losses related to newly identified criticized loans, but it also reflects actions taken related to other loans including, among other things, any necessary increases or decreases in required allowance for loan losses for specific loans or loan pools. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific loan risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. While management utilizes its best judgment and information available during its evaluation, the ultimate adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is dependent upon a variety of factors beyond the Company’s control, including, but not limited to, the performance of the Company’s loan portfolio, the economy, changes in interest rates, and the view of the regulatory authorities toward loan classifications. While management utilizes its best judgment and information available during its evaluation, the ultimate adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is dependent upon a variety of factors beyond the Company’s control, including the performance of the Company’s loan portfolio, the economy, changes in interest rates, and the view 18 Table of Contents of the regulatory authorities toward loan classifications. Management considers its allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2007 appropriate and adequate to cover current losses in the loan portfolio. However, underlying assumptions may be impacted in future periods by changes in economic conditions, the impact of regulatory examinations, and the discovery of information with respect to borrowers, which was not known to management at the time of the issuance of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. As such, management’s assumptions may or may not prove valid. Thus, there can be no assurance that loan losses in future periods will not exceed the current allowance for loan losses amount or that future increases in the allowance for loan losses will not be required. Additionally, no assurance can be given that management’s ongoing evaluation of the loan portfolio, in light of changing economic conditions and other relevant factors, will not require significant future additions to the allowance for loan losses, thus adversely impacting the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition contained herein for further discussion regarding the Company’s accounting policies related to, factors impacting, and methodology for analyzing the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for loan losses. Economic Risk All facets of the Company’s operations are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the Upstate South Carolina, the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the United States economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company primarily provides its services to customers within the Upstate. Deterioration in economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors, could result in declines in asset quality, loan collateral values, and / or the demand for the Company’s products and services. Technological Risk Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. In addition, the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The Company’s success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands as well as create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, may not be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, or may be unable to successfully keep pace with technological change impacting the financial services industry, any of which could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems, thereby increasing the Company’s competitors. Funding Risk The Company primarily relies on deposits and borrowed funds to fund its asset growth. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits, no assurance can be given that it will be able to retain or replace such funds in the future. The Company’s future financial flexibility would be severely constrained if it were unable to access financing capabilities at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if the Company 19 Table of Contents is required to rely more heavily on higher costing funding sources to support future growth, income may not increase proportionately to cover costs. Although the Company considers its current sources of funding to be adequate for its liquidity needs, no assurance can be made that it will not be required to seek additional funding in the future to support future asset growth. To this end, there can be no assurance that additional funding, if sought, would be available or, if available, would be on favorable terms. The unavailability of additional financing sources or the unavailability of favorable terms could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Asset Growth Restriction Risk Minimum capital adequacy requirements restrain asset growth by requiring that asset growth be funded by a commensurate amount of additional capital. Alternatives available for increasing minimum capital ratio levels include, but are not necessarily limited to, increased retained earnings retention, sale of additional stock, and reduced asset growth. Retained earnings retention may be increased through a combination of higher income and lower cash dividend payouts. An increase in retained earnings improves capital ratios assuming the increase exceeds asset growth. Historically, the Company’s primary source of capital has been through retained earnings retention. Due to the fact that the Company has not historically sold additional stock to increase retained earnings to avoid shareholder dilution, in times in which increased retained earnings retention may not be sufficient to address capital requirements, the Company may be required to reduce asset growth to remain “well capitalized” as defined by the applicable regulatory framework. Restraining asset growth could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 1. Business contained herein for discussion regarding the capital adequacy requirements for the Company and the Bank. Growth and Expansion Risk The Company’s financial condition and results of operations depend on its ability to execute corporate growth and expansion strategies. In addition to expanding its business through internally generated growth and expansion within the Company’s existing markets, the Company may pursue new growth and expansion opportunities both within markets currently served and through the expansion of the Company’s market area. Business growth and expansion, whether internally generated or acquired, will likely require continued enhancements to, and expansion of, the Company’s operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. The Company cannot ensure that it will be able to implement and integrate the growth and expansion in a timely manner or that the Company’s current operating and financial systems will not require enhancement and expansion in order to accommodate such growth and expansion. The following risks, associated with growth and expansion, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to execute its growth and expansion strategy and maintain the level of profitability recently experienced. • The Company’s inability to continue to upgrade or maintain effective operating and financial control systems. • The Company’s inability to recruit and hire necessary personnel or to successfully integrate new personnel into the Company’s operations. • The Company’s inability to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses or to manage the Company’s growth effectively. • The Company’s inability to respond promptly or adequately to the emergence of unexpected expansion difficulties. 20 Table of Contents Deposit Insurance Assessment Risk As discussed in Item 1. Business contained herein, the Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The FDIC recently amended its risk-based assessment system for 2007 to implement authority granted by the Reform Act. Assessment rates are determined by the FDIC, and the FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. However, management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. A significant increase in insurance premium assessments could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Monetary Policy Risk Changes made by the Federal Reserve in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest income the Company earns on loans and securities and the amount of interest expense it pays on deposits and borrowed funds, but such changes could also impact the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond the Company’s control and are difficult to predict or anticipate but could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Failure to Comply with Government Regulation and Supervision Risk The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of the Company’s operations. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations impact the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, and / or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and / or reputation damage. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. The occurrence of any of these events could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 1. Business contained herein for discussion regarding Palmetto Bancshares’ and the Bank’s supervision and regulation. Bank Secrecy and Anti-Money Laundering Statutes and Regulation Compliance and Scrutiny Risk Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA Patriot Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines, and examination procedures in this area, the Company has been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. However, the Company cannot be certain that the policies, procedures, and systems in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance full compliance with these requirements is met. Noncompliance with any such requirements could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Holding Company Revenue (Dividend) Risk Palmetto Bancshares is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank and receives its revenue from dividends of the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Various federal and / or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to its holding company. The Company’s ability to pay dividends will continue to depend upon receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. Additionally, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could result in the holding company being unable to pay dividends on its common stock. 21 Table of Contents See Item 1. Business and Item 5. Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities contained herein for further discussion regarding matters related to the Company’s common stock dividends. Information System Interruption and Security Breach Risk Increasingly, the Company relies heavily on data processing, communication, and information exchange, provided and / or hosted both internally and by third party vendors, on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. The Company cannot be certain that all systems are entirely free from vulnerability of attack despite safeguards that have been instituted. Any failure, interruption, or security breach within these systems could result in failures or interruptions to the Company’s information systems as well as lost or misappropriated information. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of any failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by the Company or the third parties on which it relies. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows through damage to the Company’s reputation, loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Additionally, if any of the Company’s third party service providers experience financial, operational, or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in the Company’s relationships with them, the Company may be required to locate alternative sources of such services. Assurance cannot be provided that the Company could negotiate terms with alternative service sources that are as favorable or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all, thereby resulting in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Fiduciary Responsibility Claims and Litigation Risk From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company they may result in financial liability and / or adversely impact the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. The occurrence of any claims and legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows through damage to the Company’s reputation, loss of customer business, or exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Limited Public Trading Market Stock Risk The Company’s common stock is not listed for trading on a national exchange. Further, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Lightly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in active public markets. The Company cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for the Company’s common stock will develop or be sustained. Therefore, the Company’s shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 