Risk Factors—Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results.” The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. To comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have previously hired outside consultants to assist with our internal audit and internal control functions. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required to comply with the management certification for 2010. In the event internal control deficiencies are identified in the future that we are unable to remediate in a timely manner or if we are not able to maintain the requirements of Section 404, we could be subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors and regulators could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We currently anticipate that we will continue to comply with the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 within required time frames. If we were to grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities, and under terms of the Consent Order, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. If we grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, existing shareholder interests could be diluted. We will face risks with respect to expansion through acquisitions, mergers or other business expansion. From time to time we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: • the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; 31 Table of Contents • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and such expansion may not result in the levels of profits we seek. Integration efforts for any future mergers and acquisitions may not be successful and following any future merger or acquisition, after giving it effect, we may not achieve our expected benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frame, if at all. We are not currently eligible to participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions of assets and liabilities of failed banks, and there can be no assurances that we will be eligible to participate in such acquisitions in the future or that, if we were eligible, we would seek to participate in such acquisitions. However, we may possibly seek opportunities in the future to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. FDIC-assisted acquisitions present the risks of general acquisitions as well as some risks specific to these transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions often provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, which may include loss-sharing, where the FDIC absorbs most losses on covered assets and provides some indemnity, we would be subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, without FDIC assistance. Such risks could include, among others, risks associated with pricing such transactions, the risks of loss of deposits and maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may require additional resources and time. For example we may be required to service acquired problem loans, incur costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, establish processes to service acquired assets, or raise additional capital, which may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we decided to participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions and were unable to manage these risks, then such acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our underwriting decisions may materially and adversely affect our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio as well as the amount of resulting credit losses. We are exposed to the possibility of technology failure. We rely on our computer systems and the technology of outside service providers. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of this technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources become unreliable, fail, or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our business operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with government regulation and supervision could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and damage to our reputation. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities. Given the current disruption in the financial markets, we expect that the government will continue to pass new regulations and laws that will impact us. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our 32 Table of Contents ability to pursue business opportunities. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, and policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and damage to our reputation. While we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to prevent violations of these laws, regulations, and policies, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. If our deferred tax asset continues to remain impaired in the future, our earnings and capital position may continue to be adversely impacted. Deferred income tax represents the tax impact of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by us to determine if they are realizable. Factors in our determination include the ability to carry back or carry forward net operating losses and the performance of the business including the ability to generate taxable income from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset must be established with a corresponding charge to income tax expense. As of December 31, 2010, prior to any valuation allowance, net deferred tax assets totaling $20.5 million were recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Based on our projections of future taxable income over the next three years, cumulative tax losses over the previous three years, net operating loss carry forward limitations as discussed below and available tax planning strategies, we recorded a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2010. The Private Placement that was consummated on October 7, 2010 is considered to be a change in control under the Internal Revenue Service rules. Accordingly, with the assistance of third party specialists, we were required to determine the fair value of the Company and our assets for the purpose of evaluating any potential limitation or deferral of our ability to carry forward pre-acquisition net operating losses and to determine the amount of net unrealized built-in losses as of October 7, 2010, which also limits the amount of net operating losses that may be used in the future. As a result of the valuations and tax analysis, we currently estimate that future utilization of net operating loss carry forwards and built-in losses of $46 million generated prior to October 7, 2010 will be limited to $1.1 million per year. Analysis of our ability to realize deferred tax assets requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently subjective because it requires the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. While we recorded a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset for financial reporting purposes at December 31, 2010, the net operating losses are able to be carried forward for income tax purposes up to twenty years. Thus, to the extent we return to profitability and generate sufficient taxable income in the future, we will be able to utilize some of the net operating losses for income tax purposes and reverse a portion of the valuation allowance for financial reporting purposes. The determination of how much of the net operating losses we will be able to utilize and, therefore, how much of the valuation allowance that may be reversed and the timing is based on our future results of operations and the amount and timing of actual loan charge-offs and asset writedowns. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is restricted. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since the first quarter of 2009. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for such dividends. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from the bank and have historically relied on dividends from the bank as a viable source of funds to service our operating expenses, which typically include dividends to holders of our common stock; however, given the bank’s recent losses and the restrictions imposed by the Consent Order with the Supervisory Authorities, this source of liquidity is not currently available nor is it expected to be available for the foreseeable future. We and the bank are subject to regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. Federal regulatory authorities are authorized to determine under 33 Table of Contents certain circumstances that the payment of dividends by a bank holding company or a bank would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment of those dividends. Federal regulatory authorities have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current income. In addition, as a South Carolina chartered bank, the bank is subject to limitations on the amount of dividends that it is permitted to pay. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock securities, which may dilute the interests of our shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 50,513,722 shares were outstanding as of February 22, 2011, and up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock, of which no shares are outstanding. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the remaining authorized but unissued shares and to establish the terms of any series of preferred stock. We may seek additional equity capital in the future as we expand our operations. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Because there is a limited public trading market for our common stock, investors that purchase our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them. Our common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange or quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our common stock is, however, quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “PLMT.PK”. Although our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, there is currently only a limited public trading market of our common stock and the market price of our common stock may be difficult to ascertain. As a result, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them or may not be able to resell them at all. While it is our intent to seek to list our common stock on NASDAQ by July 5, 2011 as a condition of the Private Placement, there can be no assurances that NASDAQ will approve our application. Our common stock is controlled by one or more shareholders whose interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. An affiliate of CapGen Financial Partners (“CapGen”) and affiliates of Patriot Financial Partners (“Patriot”) own approximately 45.3% and 19.2%, respectively, of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 22, 2011. As a result, CapGen and Patriot are able, individually or collectively, to exercise significant influence on our business as shareholders, including influence over election of our Board of Directors and the authorization of other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. In deciding on how to vote on certain proposals, our shareholders should be aware that CapGen and Patriot may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our other shareholders. A holder with as little as a 5% interest in our company could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” and possibly other restrictions. Any entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, or 5% or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over us, may be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” in accordance with the BHCA. In addition, (1) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and (2) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain regulatory approval under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens, and might require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in our common stock. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such a holder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status, such as a 34 Table of Contents material investment in a company unrelated to banking. Further, subject to an FDIC policy statement published in August 2009, under certain circumstances, holders of 5% or more of our securities could be required to be subject to certain restrictions, such as an inability to sell or trade their securities for a period of three years, among others, in order for us to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction of a failed bank. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 