ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent in its business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes impact the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, one should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Economic Risk General All facets of the Company’s operations are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the Upstate of South Carolina, the U.S. and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that progressed into a recession in 2008. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company primarily provides its services to customers within its market area. Continued weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors, will result in further deterioration in the Company’s asset quality, loan collateral values, and / or the demand for the Company’s products and services. 17 Table of Contents Current Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and in 2008 in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued into 2009. In addition, as a consequence of the current recession in the U.S., businesses across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. Further negative market developments may decrease consumer confidence levels even more causing adverse changes in payment patterns, and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact the Company’s charge-off levels and provision for loan losses. This would likely exacerbate the adverse impacts of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial services industry. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including the Company, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Broadly speaking, bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively impacted, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations and to, among other things, issue formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to those developments may negatively impact the Company’s operations by restricting its business operations, including its ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact the Company’s financial performance or stock price. Concerned about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely impacted the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. If these conditions worsen, the Company will be adversely impacted. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, the Company’s ability to access capital may be adversely impacted which, in turn, would adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse impact on the Company’s business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, the Company expects that its business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be adversely impacted. The Current U.S. Financial Industry There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, and other governmental agencies will help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. 18 Table of Contents On October 3, 2008, then President Bush signed into law the EESA, which, among other measures, authorized the U.S. Department of the Treasury Secretary to establish the TARP. The EESA gives broad authority to U.S. Department of the Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell, and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other troubled assets. The EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: • Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; • Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection measures; • Temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and • Authority for the SEC to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. The EESA authorizes the U.S. Department of the Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies through the TARP. The TARP intends to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase lending to customers and to each other. The U.S. Department of the Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP CPP. Under the CPP, the U.S. Department of the Treasury will purchase debt or equity securities from participating institutions. The TARP also will include direct purchases or guarantees of troubled assets of financial institutions. Finally, the CPP provides access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. The EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others of which are imposed on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the subprime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks, the lowering of the federal funds rate, including a 175-200 basis point decrease in the fourth quarter of 2008, emergency action against short selling practices, a temporary guaranty program for money market funds, the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers, and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make it significantly more attractive to acquire financial institutions that have a tax basis in their loan portfolios that significantly exceeds the fair value of those portfolios. In October 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of the TLGP to provide full deposit insurance for all noninterest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions were automatically covered by this program for the period commencing October 14, 2008 and continued to be covered as long as they did not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. Under the program, the FDIC guarantees timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an 19 Table of Contents institution could not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee extends to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The Company chose to participate in the transaction account guarantee program but opted out of the debt guarantee program. On February 17, 2009, the Recovery Act was signed into law in an effort to, among other things, create jobs and stimulate growth in the U.S. economy. The Recovery Act specifies appropriations of approximately $787 billion for a wide range of Federal programs and will increase or extend certain benefits payable under the Medicaid, unemployment compensation, and nutrition assistance programs. The Recovery Act also reduces individual and corporate income taxes and makes a variety of other changes to tax laws. The Recovery Act also imposes certain limitations on compensation paid by participants in the TARP, which includes programs under TARP such as the CPP, in which the Company did not participate. The actual impact that the EESA and related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have on the financial markets remains unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions would materially and adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on the Company or whether (or to what extent) the Company will benefit from such programs. Risk of Downturn in the Economy on Small- to Medium-Sized Business Target Markets The Company targets the banking and financial services needs of small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which the Company operates, its business, financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Interest Rate Risk Risk to Net Interest Income Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. The Company is subject to interest rate risk because: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling, net income will initially decline); • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when the general level of interest rates is falling, the Company may reduce rates paid on transaction and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest rates); • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield curve may impact new loan yields and funding costs differently); or • The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the investment securities available for sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated – which could reduce portfolio income). Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volume, the mortgage-servicing rights portfolio, the value of the Company’s pension plan assets and liability, and other financial instruments directly or indirectly impacting net income. 20 Table of Contents Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 7A. Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk contained herein for discussion regarding the impact that changing interest rates would have on the Company’s net interest income over the coming 12 month period. Loan Prepayment Risks Impacting Mortgage Instruments Loan prepayment rates are impacted by changes in interest rates charged on mortgage loans as well as, to a lesser extent, by consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, and general economic conditions. Although changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict, prepayment rates tend to increase when market interest rates decline. Since December 31, 2007, the Federal Reserve reduced the prime and federal funds interest rate by 400-425 basis points. The Company anticipates that this decline in interest rates may result in an increase in loan prepayments in the foreseeable future. Significant risks resulting from increased loan prepayments include the following: Deferred Fees and Costs Impact. The Company recognizes deferred loan origination fees and costs by adjusting interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination fees and costs are expensed accelerates. Premiums Paid on Mortgage-Backed Securities Impact. The Company recognizes premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment to interest income over the life of the investment security based on the rate of repayment of the investment securities. Prepayment on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security thereby increasing the rate at which premiums are expensed. Mortgage-Servicing Rights Portfolio Impact. The Company’s mortgage-servicing rights portfolio represents the estimated present value of fees that the Company expects to receive on mortgages that it services over an expected term. If prepayments increase above expected levels, the value of the servicing asset decreases because the amount of future fees expected to be received by the Company decreases. The Company may be required to recognize this decrease in value by taking a charge against net income. The Company has experienced an increase in prepayments of mortgages at times in the past as interest rates have decreased dramatically, which has impacted the value of its servicing asset. The Company believes, based on historical experience, that the amount of prepayments and related charges should decrease if interest rates increase. Funds Reinvestment Risk. With regard to the Company’s loan portfolio, it may be unable to reinvest prepayment proceeds at rates comparable to the prepaid instruments, particularly in periods of declining interest rates. Lending Activities Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates on borrowers and changes in the economic conditions in the specific markets in which the Company operates, as well as changes in economic conditions regionally, nationally, and internationally. Increases in interest rates and / or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to pay their loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion regarding the Company’s underwriting and monitoring policies and procedures for mitigating risks inherent in the Company’s lending activities. Repayment and Collateral Risk The Company could experience loan losses because borrowers, guarantors, and / or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and the Company’s underwriting and loan monitoring 21 Table of Contents policies and procedures adopted to address loan loss risks may not prevent unexpected losses. In an economic downturn, the Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches the Company uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future behaviors. At December 31, 2008, approximately 71% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans and loans secured by construction, land development, other land, and nonfarm nonresidential real estate. Loans secured by construction, land development, other land, and nonfarm nonresidential real estate are generally viewed as having more risk of default than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction, and the estimated cost of construction. Commercial and industrial loans are generally more risky than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because those loans are typically not secured by real estate collateral. An adverse development with respect to one lending relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared with a single-family residential mortgage loan because the Company typically has more than one loan with such borrowers. Additionally, these loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared with single-family residential mortgage loans. Therefore, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant decline in the related asset quality. A decline in asset quality could result in a loss of income from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loans charged-off, all of which could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Management believes that the Company’s construction, land development, other land, and nonfarm nonresidential real estate collateral is diverse in terms of type. This diversity, management believes, reduces the Company’s exposure to adverse economic events that impact any single industry. Although they represent a relatively small portion of the Company’s loan portfolio, the Company is subject to risk with regard to its installment loans, particularly loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted installment loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, installment loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability and are more likely to be adversely impacted by job loss, divorce, illness, and / or personal bankruptcy. Additionally, the application of federal and state legislation and / or regulatory action may reduce the amount that the Company’s borrowers are required to pay or limit the Company’s ability to foreclose on properties or other collateral, which makes foreclosure less economically feasible. Real Estate Market Risk While the Company does not have any subprime loans, at December 31, 2008, approximately 86% of the Company’s loan portfolio was secured by real estate. Although the Company believes that there is generally less risk associated with loans secured by real estate than with those not secured by real estate, a downturn in the real estate markets could directly impact the collateral securing the Company’s loan portfolio. The Company’s loan portfolio secured by real estate has been adversely impacted by to the dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. As of December 31, 2008, the majority of the Company’s loan portfolio secured by real estate consisted of loans secured by properties located in northwest South Carolina. The Company anticipates that further decline in the real estate markets in South Carolina will result in decreased underlying collateral values and increased potential losses in the event of default. Inadequate Allowance for Loan Losses to Cover Actual Losses, Need for Further Increases in Provisions for Loan Losses, and Future Charge-Off Risk The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense. The allowance for loan losses represents management’s best estimate of probable 22 Table of Contents incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political, and regulatory conditions, industry concentrations, and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions impacting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on the Company’s allowance for loan losses. Generally, nonperforming loans reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy. If current trends in the real estate markets continue, the Company expects that it will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to loans secured by construction, land development, other land, and nonfarm nonresidential real estate. Moreover, the Company expects that the current recession will negatively impact economic conditions in its market areas, and that it could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. Bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, if their judgments differ from those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition for a further discussion regarding the Company’s accounting policies related to, factors impacting, and methodology for analyzing the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for loan losses. Investment Securities Market Risk Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year have negatively impacted the market for some investment securities and resulted in significant writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as the Company. As previously discussed, the Company’s investment securities are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. As a result, the market for some of the investment securities held in the Company’s portfolio has become volatile over the past twelve months. Further, the current difficult market conditions may also result in credit downgrades of mortgage and bond issues that may reduce the fair value of the Company’s investment portfolio and may result in a determination that the Company’s investment securities are other-than-temporarily impaired, which could cause it to writedown the carrying value of the portfolio and would reduce its net income. Such reductions to net income would also result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s capital levels. Liquidity and Funding Risk The goal of liquidity management is to ensure that the Company can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities and withdrawals and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this goal, the Company’s Asset / Liability Committee establishes liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. 23 Table of Contents Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative impact on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities and with terms acceptable to it could be impaired by factors that impact the Company specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of the Company’s business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which the Company’s loans are concentrated or regulatory action against the Company. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as the current disruption in the financial markets and negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a result of the recent turmoil and continued deterioration in credit markets. The Company relies on traditional and nontraditional deposits, advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund its operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances, it might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition worsen, if the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or other correspondent banks with whom the Company is associated worsen or if market conditions deteriorate further. Although the Company considers its sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard, and the Company may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. The Company may seek additional debt in the future to achieve its business objectives, in connection with future acquisitions or for other reasons. There can be no assurance that additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to the Company or, if available, would be on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively impacted by the recent adverse economic conditions, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and future prospects could be materially adversely impacted. The Company actively monitors the depository institutions that hold its federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. The Company cannot provide assurances that access to its cash and cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and management diversifies cash, due from banks, and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure relating to any one of these entities. The Company routinely reviews the financials of its counterparties as part of the Company’s risk management process. Balances in the Company’s accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While the Company monitors and adjusts the balances in its accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail. Asset Growth Restriction Risk Minimum capital adequacy requirements restrain asset growth by requiring that asset growth be funded by a commensurate amount of additional capital. Some of the alternatives available for increasing minimum capital ratio levels include increased retained earnings, sale of additional stock, and reduced asset growth. Retained earnings may be increased through a combination of higher income and lower cash dividend payouts. An increase in retained earnings improves capital ratios assuming the increase exceeds asset growth. Historically, the Company’s primary source of capital has been through retained earnings. The Company has not historically sold additional stock to avoid shareholder dilution. If the Company does not sell additional stock when increased retained earnings are not sufficient to address capital requirements, the Company may be required to reduce asset growth to remain well capitalized as defined by the applicable regulatory framework. Restraining asset growth could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 1. Business for a discussion regarding the capital adequacy requirements for Palmetto Bancshares and the Bank. 24 Table of Contents Capital Risk The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. In addition, although it has not historically chosen to do so, the Company may elect to raise additional capital to support its business or to finance acquisitions. A number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition resulting from recent economic conditions, which may diminish the Company’s ability to raise additional capital. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, and a number of other factors, many of which are outside the Company’s control. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to it. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and future prospects would be materially adversely impacted if the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed. Deposit Insurance Assessment Risk As discussed in Item 1. Business, the Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the deposit insurance. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures. In the case of a bank failure, the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the DIF. In October 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the DIF over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed an assessment rate schedule that would raise assessment rates uniformly by seven basis points (annualized) beginning on January 1, 2009. Beginning with the second quarter of 2009, base assessment rates before adjustments would range from 10 to 45 basis points, and further changes would be made to the deposit insurance assessment system, including requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share. The proposal would impose higher assessment rates on institutions with a significant reliance on secured liabilities and on institutions that rely significantly on brokered deposits (but, for well-managed and well capitalized institutions, only when accompanied by rapid asset growth). The proposal would reduce assessment rates for institutions that hold long-term unsecured debt and, for smaller institutions, high levels of Tier 1 capital. In addition, on February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule to raise 2009 second quarter deposit insurance premiums for Risk Category I banks from 10 to 14 basis points to 12 to 16 basis points. The FDIC also proposed to impose a 20-basis point special emergency assessment payable September 30, 2009. Additionally, the FDIC board authorized the FDIC to implement an additional 10 basis-point premium in any quarter. The FDIC subsequently announced that it would reduce the emergency assessment if Congress passes a bill allowing the agency to borrow more from the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The FDIC is currently seeking comment on the interim rule. The Company anticipates its future insurance costs to be higher than in previous periods. However, the Company is not currently able to accurately estimate the amount of additional cost. The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution, including the Bank, if it determines after a hearing that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, shall continue to be insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. Management of the bank is not aware of any practice, condition, or violation that might lead to termination of the bank’s deposit insurance. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Either an increase in the Risk Category of the Bank or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Monetary Policy Risk Changes made by the Federal Reserve in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest income the Company earns on loans and securities and the interest expense it pays on deposits and borrowed funds, but could also impact the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-servicing rights and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. Federal Reserve policies also can adversely impact borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies, which are beyond the Company’s control and are difficult to predict or anticipate, could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk of Failure to Comply with Government Regulation and Supervision The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities. Given the current disruption in the financial markets, the Company expects that the government will pass new regulations and laws that will impact the Company. Compliance with such regulations may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, and policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and damage to the Company’s reputation. While the Company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to prevent violations of these laws, regulations, and policies, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See Item 1. Business for a discussion regarding Palmetto Bancshares’ and the Bank’s supervision and regulation. Loss of Key Personnel Risk The Company depends on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on its operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. As a result, the Board of Directors may have to search outside of the Company for qualified permanent replacements. This search may be prolonged and the Company cannot provide assurance that it would be able to locate and hire qualified replacements. Limited Public Trading Market Stock Risk The Company’s common stock is not traded or authorized for quotation on any exchanges or on Nasdaq. The Company facilitates trades of its common stock, matching interested buyers and sellers. The liquidity of the Company’s common stock depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers. The Company cannot provide assurance that shareholders will be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Company currently does not intend to seek listing of its common stock on a securities exchange, and the Company does not intend to seek authorization for trading of the shares on Nasdaq. The Company believes that, from time to time, it has shareholders who desire to sell their shares of the Company’s common stock but are unable to do so at the price desired because of a lack of willing buyers at that price. Moreover, it may be particularly difficult for shareholders who desire to sell large blocks of the Company’s stock to find buyers for that stock at desired prices. A stock that is not listed on a securities exchange or authorized for Nasdaq trading might not be accepted as collateral for loans. If accepted as collateral, the stock’s value could nevertheless be substantially discounted. Consequently, investors should regard the Company’s common stock as a long-term investment and should be prepared to bear the economic risk of an investment in the common stock for an indefinite period. Investors who need or desire to dispose of all or a part of their investments in the common stock cannot do so except by private, direct negotiations with third parties. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 