ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes impact the Company are described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted. If this were to happen, the value of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to certain regulatory requirements and restrictions. The Supervisory Authorities notified us that the Consent Order the Bank had been operating under since June 2010 was terminated effective January 30, 2013. Although the Consent Order has been terminated, certain regulatory requirements and restrictions remain including requirements to continue to improve credit quality and earnings, a restriction prohibiting dividend payments without prior approval from the Supervisory Authorities and the maintenance of a specified leverage capital ratio. Our decisions regarding credit risk and allowance for loan losses may materially and adversely impact our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is impacted by a number of factors, including: • The duration of the credit, • Credit risks of a particular client, • The quality of the underwriting, • Changes in economic and industry conditions, and • In the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. 21 Table of Contents We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for inherent losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • Evaluations of the collectability of loans in our portfolio including consideration of factors such as the balance of impaired loans and the quality, mix and size of our overall loan portfolio, • Economic conditions that may impact the overall loan portfolio or an individual borrower’s ability to repay, • The amount and quality of collateral securing the loans, • Our historical loan loss experience, and • Borrower and collateral specific considerations for loans individually evaluated for impairment. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses, and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income (or increase in our net loss) and possibly our capital. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision for loan losses or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have higher actual loan losses than our recorded allowance for loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Our actual loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses, and, therefore, our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. As of December 31, 2012, 62.1% of our loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent, and that a portion of loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control including, among other things, changes in market conditions impacting the value of loan collateral and problems impacting borrowers’ credit. If our allowance for loan losses is determined to be inadequate, we will be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and / or to charge-off additional loans, which could further adversely impact our results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain credit losses requiring additions to the provision for loan losses in excess of present levels. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. At December 31, 2012, 87.0% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. We have identified credit concerns with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio which are primarily related to the downturn in the real estate market. The real estate market has been substantially impacted by the recession that 22 Table of Contents ended in 2009 and its aftermath, which has led to increased levels of inventories of unsold homes and higher foreclosure rates. As a result, property values for this type of collateral have declined substantially and market appraisal assumptions remain depressed. These loans carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing real estate since repayment is dependent on the ultimate completion of the project or home and often on the sale of the property or permanent financing. Slow housing conditions have impacted some of these borrowers’ ability to sell the completed projects in a timely manner, and we believe that these trends are likely to continue. In some cases, this downturn has resulted in a significant impairment in the value of the real estate collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. As a result, beginning in 2009 and continuing through 2012, we incurred substantially higher charge-offs than we have historically experienced, and we maintained our allowance for loan losses during these periods at levels higher than historically maintained to address the probable credit losses inherent within our loan portfolio. Deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market may cause us to adjust our opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to an additional increase in our provisions for loan losses, which could also adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate and continued depressed commercial real estate conditions could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2012, 62.1% of our loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally viewed as having more risk of default than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally more risky than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because the collateral securing commercial real estate loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. An adverse development with respect to one lending relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared with a single-family residential mortgage loan because we typically have more than one loan with such borrowers. Additionally, these loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared with single-family residential mortgage loans. Therefore, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant decline in the related asset quality. Because of the severity of the most recent recession and lack of a more typical recovery, these loans represent higher risk, could result in a sharp increase in loans charged-off and could require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in elevated uncertainty in the financial markets generally with the expectation of continued uncertainty in 2013. As a result of these developments, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performance have deteriorated at many institutions, and competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets and bank holding company stock prices, in particular, have been negatively impacted as has the general ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations including issuing a historically high number of formal enforcement orders over the past four years. In addition, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including, without limitation, the EESA and the Dodd-Frank Act, have been adopted. Furthermore, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations by issuing formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets and the impact of new legislation and bank examination practices in response to those developments may negatively impact our operations by 23 Table of Contents restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will impact us. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle-market clients. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important client sector, our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years, and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The severity of the economic downturn and lack of a typical recovery could reduce our client base, level of deposits and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets. The current unfavorable economic situation has negatively impacted the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A continuation of the unfavorable economic situation or a prolonged recession would likely result in the continued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest and fees on loans represented 85.9% and 88.3% of our interest income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, respectively. If the unfavorable economic situation persists or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely impacted by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively impacted. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Continued unfavorable economic conditions could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely impact our business. Liquidity risks could impact operations and jeopardize our financial condition. The goal of liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet client loan requests, client deposit maturities and withdrawals and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this goal, our Asset / Liability Committee (“ALCO”) establishes liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding requirements and to avoid overdependence on volatile, less reliable funding sources. An inability to raise funds through deposits, retail repurchase agreements, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans, issuance of additional equity securities and other sources could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities and with terms acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that impact us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us such as recent disruptions in the financial markets and negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a result of contracting net interest margins, increased regulatory restrictions and costs and the lack of a robust economic recovery. 24 Table of Contents Historically, we have relied on deposits, retail repurchase agreements, advances from the FHLB, funding from correspondent banks and other borrowings to fund our operations. As a result of negative financial performance indicators in 2009 through the second quarter 2012, some of the Bank’s various sources of liquidity were restricted. The Bank’s credit risk rating at the FHLB was negatively impacted, resulting in more restrictive borrowing requirements. However, as our financial performance indicators improved over the second half of 2012, many of these restrictive borrowing requirements have been lifted. During most of 2010, the FHLB would not allow us to borrow incremental advances. However, in December 2010, the FHLB informed us that our contingent funding ability had been restored up to 10% of our total assets based on meeting certain collateral requirements. From January 2010 to March 2011, the maximum maturity for potential borrowings was overnight. Effective March 2011, we may borrow from the FHLB for terms up to three years subject to availability of collateral. In June 2011, we were notified by the FHLB that our borrowing capacity had been increased from 10% of total assets to 15% of total assets. In addition, from the first quarter 2010 through the second quarter 2012, the Company was only able to borrow from the Federal Reserve Discount Window at the secondary credit rate, and such borrowings could only be used as a backup source of funding on a very short-term basis or to facilitate an orderly resolution of operational issues. However, since the second quarter 2012, we have been able to borrow under the Federal Reserve primary credit facility. We actively monitor the depository institutions that hold our federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. We cannot provide assurances that access to our cash and cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and we diversify cash, due from banks and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure relating to any one of these entities. We routinely review the financials of our counterparties as part of our risk management process. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the correspondent financial institutions fail. We currently do not utilize brokered deposits as a funding source. However, this channel is available to us if we were to decide to pursue such funding. Brokered deposits generally represent time deposit accounts placed with a bank from sources outside its local market. These funds are often raised at a cost in excess of the cost of funds generated through a bank’s organic channels and do not represent true client relationships. Our ability to access the brokered deposit market without prior approval from the FDIC is contingent on maintaining “well-capitalized” status under the regulatory capital rules. Our ability to access the brokered deposit market can also be impacted by an FDIC order or other regulatory restrictions as a result of the Bank’s ongoing examination process. There can be no assurance that our sources of funds will be adequate for our liquidity needs, and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Specifically, we may seek additional equity and / or debt in the future to achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that additional capital and / or borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively impacted by the recent unfavorable economic conditions as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects could be materially adversely impacted. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely impact our financial condition. As previously disclosed in Item 1. Business, the Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain deposit insurance. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Although we cannot predict what the insurance assessment rates will be in the future, deterioration in either our risk-based capital ratios or adjustments to the FDIC’s base assessment rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. One of the key measures of our success is our amount of net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. We are subject to interest rate risk because: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling, net income will initially decline), • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when the general level of interest rates is falling, we may reduce interest rates paid on deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest rates), • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield curve may impact new or repricing loan yields and funding costs differently), and/or • The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the investment securities available for sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income). Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volumes, the mortgage-servicing rights portfolio, gain on the sale of SBA loans, the value of our pension plan assets and liabilities and other financial instruments directly or indirectly impacting net income. We may be unable to anticipate changes in market interest rates, which are impacted by many factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, monetary policy and other changes that impact financial markets both domestic and foreign. Our net interest income is impacted not only by the level and direction of interest rates but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest-sensitive instruments and key driver rates as well as balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. In the event rates increase, our costs on interest-bearing liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest-earning assets resulting in a deterioration of our net interest margin. As such, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face strong competition for clients, which could prevent us from obtaining clients and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract clients. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage-banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. In addition, legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, to grow our business we generally have to attract our client base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents in the Upstate. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. Some competitors have more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and are able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater client convenience than our Bank. In addition, competition has increased 26 Table of Contents from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential clients. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect other smaller institutions to try to compete in the markets we serve. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We may be adversely impacted by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Bank cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Bank. Any such losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on key management individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely impact our prospects. We depend on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other personnel may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. As a result, our Board of Directors may have to search outside of the Bank for qualified permanent replacements. This search may be prolonged, and we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to locate and hire qualified replacements. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, have an adverse impact on our operations and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly-regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of branches. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. Further, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices impacting the financial services industry could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or may increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts. Financial reform legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress, and further changes in regulation to which we are exposed, will result in additional new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has and will continue to significantly change bank regulatory structure and impact the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and 27 Table of Contents regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB and gives it broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Additionally, the CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, it is expected that such regulatory changes will increase our operating and compliance cost. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, it is expected that such regulatory changes will increase our operating and compliance cost. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will impact us. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. In September 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the U.S. and around the world, known as Basel III. Basel III calls for increases in the requirements for minimum common equity, minimum Tier 1 capital and minimum total capital for certain systemically important financial institutions to be phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019. Any regulations adopted for systemically significant institutions may also be applied to or otherwise impact other financial institutions such as the Company or the Bank. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company, and nonbank financial companies that are supervised by the Federal Reserve. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. In particular, bank holding companies, many of which have long relied on trust preferred securities as a component of their regulatory capital, will no longer be permitted to issue new trust preferred securities that count toward their Tier 1 capital. While the Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict how any new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Bank. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the issuance of additional capital and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. 28 Table of Contents If we grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. If we grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, existing shareholder interests could be diluted. We will face risks with respect to expansion through acquisitions, mergers or other business expansion. From time to time, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or a portion of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • The potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operational, management and market risks with respect to a target institution, • The time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management and opening new offices, the time lag between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion, • The recording and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse impacts on our results of operations, and • The risk of loss of key teammates and clients. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and such expansion may not result in the levels of profits we seek. Integration efforts for any future mergers and acquisitions may not be successful, and, following any future merger or acquisition after giving it effect, we may not achieve our expected benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frame, if at all. We may seek opportunities in the future to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. FDIC-assisted acquisitions present the risks of general acquisitions as well as some risks specific to these transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions often provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, which may include loss-sharing where the FDIC absorbs most losses on covered assets and provides some indemnity, we would be subject to many of the same risks faced when acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction without FDIC assistance. Such risks could include, among others, risks associated with pricing such transactions, the risks of loss of deposits and maintaining client relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may require additional resources and time. For example, we may be required to service acquired problem loans, incur costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, establish processes to service acquired assets or raise additional capital, which may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we decide to participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions and are unable to manage these risks, then such acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our underwriting decisions may materially and adversely impact our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances, we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines or both. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio as well as the amount of resulting credit losses. 29 Table of Contents A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers or other third parties, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our clients’ devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients’ or other third parties’ business operations. Further, third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities including financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations and other third parties, including the South Carolina Department of Revenue, which had records exposed in a 2012 cyber-attack, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. We have disaster recovery plans and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, but there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our deferred tax asset continues to remain impaired in the future, our earnings and capital position may continue to be adversely impacted. Deferred income tax represents the tax impact of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by us to determine if they are realizable. Factors in our determination include the ability to carryback or carryforward net operating losses and the performance of the business including the ability to generate taxable income from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset must be established with a corresponding charge to income tax expense. As of December 31, 2012, net deferred tax assets, without regard to any valuation allowance, of $31.1 million were recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, a portion of which includes the after-tax impact of recent net operating losses. This net deferred tax asset is fully offset by a valuation allowance as a result of uncertainty surrounding the ultimate realization of these tax benefits. The need for a valuation allowance is based on the Company’s cumulative tax losses over the previous two years, net operating loss carryforward limitations as discussed below, projection of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. 30 Table of Contents The Private Placement was considered a change in control under the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations. Accordingly, the Company was required to evaluate potential limitation or deferral of our ability to carryforward pre-acquisition net operating losses and to determine the amount of net unrealized pre-acquisition built-in losses, which may be subject to similar limitation or deferral. Under the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations, net unrealized pre-acquisition built-in losses realized within five years of the change in control are subject to potential limitation, which for the Company is October 7, 2015. Through that date, we will continue to analyze our ability to utilize such losses to offset anticipated future taxable income as pre-acquisition built-in losses are ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2012, we estimate that future utilization of built-in losses of $53 million generated prior to October 7, 2010 will be limited to $1.1 million per year. In addition, we estimate that $8.0 million to $9.0 million of the tax benefits related to built-in losses may not ultimately be realized. However, this estimate will not be confirmed until the five-year limitation period expires in October 2015. Analysis of our ability to realize deferred tax assets requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently subjective because it requires the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. While we maintained a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset for financial reporting purposes at December 31, 2012, the net operating losses and net realized built-in losses are able to be carried forward for income tax purposes up to twenty years. Thus, to the extent we generate sufficient taxable income in the future, we will be able to utilize some of the net operating losses and net realized built-in losses for income tax purposes and reverse a portion of the valuation allowance for financial reporting purposes. The determination of how much of the net operating losses and net realized built-in losses we will be able to utilize and, therefore, how much of the valuation allowance that may be reversed and the timing is based on our future results of operations and the amount and timing of actual loan charge-offs and asset writedowns. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is restricted. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the Federal Reserve’s policies provide that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the bank holding company appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve’s policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks by standing ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to those banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks where necessary. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions. Since the Company is legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and does not conduct stand-alone operations, its ability to pay dividends depends on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to it. As a South Carolina chartered bank, the Bank is subject to limitations on the amount of dividends that it is permitted to pay. Unless otherwise instructed by the State Board or the Commissioner of Banking, the Bank is generally permitted under South Carolina state banking regulations to pay cash dividends of up to 100% of net income in any calendar year without obtaining the prior approval of the State Board. However, given the Bank’s annual losses and restrictions imposed by the Supervisory Authorities, the Bank is currently prohibited from paying dividends to the Company, and it is unlikely that the Bank will pay dividends to the Company in the foreseeable future. In addition, under Federal Reserve regulations, a dividend cannot be paid by the Bank if it would be less than well-capitalized after the dividend. The Federal Reserve may also prevent the payment of a dividend by the Bank if it determines that the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. 31 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, which may dilute the interests of our shareholders and may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 12,762,452 shares were outstanding as of February 11, 2013, and up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock, of which no shares are outstanding. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to strengthen our capital position or to make strategic acquisitions or investments. If we determine, for any reason, that we need to raise capital, subject to applicable NASDAQ rules, our Board of Directors generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of stock for any corporate purpose including issuance of equity based incentives under or outside of our equity compensation plans. Additionally, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in earnings, initiation of coverage by analysts and their resulting recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and nontraditional competitors, news reports of trends, concerns or irrational exuberance on the part of investors and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely impact the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our investors to sell their common stock when they desire and at prices they find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business. Future sales of our stock by our shareholders, or the perception that those sales could occur, may cause our stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”), the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. The relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market or the perception that those sales may occur could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Because there is a limited public trading market for our common stock, investors that purchase our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. As a result, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them or may not be able to sell them at all. 32 Table of Contents Our common stock is controlled by one or more shareholders whose interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. CapGen Financial Partners (“CapGen”) and its affiliates and Patriot Financial Partners (“Patriot”) and its affiliates own approximately 44.9% and 19.2%, respectively, of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 11, 2013. As a result, CapGen and Patriot are able, individually and collectively, to exercise significant influence on our business as shareholders including influence over election of our Board of Directors and the authorization of other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. In deciding on how to vote on certain proposals, our shareholders should be aware that CapGen and Patriot may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our other shareholders. A holder with as little as a 5% interest in our Company could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” and possibly other restrictions. Any entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, or 5% or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over us, may be subject to regulation as a bank holding company in accordance with the BHCA. In addition, (1) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and (2) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain regulatory approval under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens and might require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in our common stock. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such a holder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking. Further, subject to an FDIC policy statement published in August 2009, under certain circumstances, holders of 5% or more of our securities could be required to be subject to certain restrictions such as an inability to sell or trade their securities for a period of three years, among others, in order for us to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction of a failed bank. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 