ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes impact our Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted. If this were to happen, the value of our common or preferred stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. 19 Table of Contents Economic Risk General All facets of our operations are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the Upstate of South Carolina, the U.S. and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that progressed into a recession throughout 2008 and 2009. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we primarily provide our services to customers within our market area. Continued weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors, will result in further deterioration in our asset quality, loan collateral values, and / or the demand for our products and services. Current Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally Negative developments which began in the latter half of 2007 and continued throughout 2009 in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn. In addition, as a consequence of the current recession in the U.S., businesses across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment also increased significantly. Further negative market developments may decrease consumer confidence levels even more causing adverse changes in payment patterns, and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which have and may continue to impact our charge-off levels and provision for loan losses. This would likely exacerbate the adverse impacts of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including our Bank, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Broadly speaking, bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively impacted, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, there is a potential for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations and to, among other things, issue formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation, enforcement actions, or other regulatory restrictions in response to those developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans and to generate deposits, and may adversely impact our financial performance, liquidity, and stock price. Due to concern surrounding the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely impacted our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Although there are signs of economic improvement, we do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve significantly in the near future. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and maintain sufficient liquidity may be adversely impacted which, in turn, would adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Overall, during the past two years, the general business environment has had an adverse impact on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will continue to be adversely impacted. The Current U.S. Financial Industry Enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve, and other governmental agencies in 2008 and 2009 appear to have helped stabilize the U.S. financial system and improve the housing market. However, there can be no assurances that these actions will be enough to completely stabilize the financial system given the difficult economic environment. The EESA authorizes the U.S. Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities, and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under the TARP. The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The U.S. Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP CPP. Under the CPP, the U.S. Treasury purchases debt or equity securities from participating institutions. The TARP also will include direct purchases or guarantees of troubled assets of financial institutions. We decided not to participate in the CPP. EESA also increased FDIC deposit insurance on most accounts from $100 thousand to $250 thousand. This increase is in place until December 31, 2013. In addition, the FDIC has implemented two temporary programs to provide deposit insurance for the full amount of most noninterest-bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010 and to guarantee certain unsecured debt of financial institutions and their holding companies through June 2012. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the volatility in the U.S. banking system. The EESA, the TARP and the FDIC’s recent regulatory initiatives may not have the desired effect. If the volatility in the market and the economy continues or worsens, our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to funds and the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely impacted. Risk of Downturn in the Economy on Small- to Medium-Sized Business Target Markets We generally provide banking and financial services to small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows will be adversely impacted. Interest Rate Risk Risk to Net Interest Income One of the key measures of our success is our amount of net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. We are subject to interest rate risk because: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling, net income will initially decline), 21 Table of Contents • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when the general level of interest rates is falling, we may reduce rates paid on transaction and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest rates), • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield curve may impact new loan yields and funding costs differently), and/or • The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the investment securities available for sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income). Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volume, the mortgage-servicing rights portfolio, the value of our pension plan assets and liabilities, and other financial instruments directly or indirectly impacting net income. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk contained herein for discussion regarding the impact that changing interest rates would have on our net interest income over the coming 12 month period. Loan Prepayment Risks Impacting Mortgage Instruments Loan prepayment rates are impacted by changes in interest rates charged on mortgage loans as well as, to a lesser extent, by consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, and general economic conditions. Although changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict, prepayment rates tend to increase when market interest rates decline. Since December 31, 2007, the Federal Reserve reduced the prime and federal funds interest rate by 400-425 basis points. This decline in interest rates may continue to result in an increase in loan prepayments in the foreseeable future. Significant risks resulting from increased loan prepayments include, but are not limited to, the following: Deferred Fees and Costs Impact. We recognize deferred loan origination fees and costs by adjusting interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination fees and costs are recognized accelerates. Premiums Paid on Mortgage-Backed Securities Impact. We recognize premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment to interest income over the life of the investment security based on the rate of repayment of the investment securities. Prepayment on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security thereby increasing the rate at which premiums are expensed. Mortgage-Servicing Rights Portfolio Impact. Our mortgage-servicing rights portfolio represents the estimated present value of fees that we expect to receive on mortgages that we service over an expected term. If prepayments increase above expected levels, the value of the servicing asset decreases because the amount of future fees expected to be received decreases. We may be required to recognize this decrease in value by taking a charge against net income. We have experienced an increase in prepayments of mortgages at times in the past as interest rates have decreased dramatically, which has impacted the value of our servicing asset. We believe, based on historical experience, that the amount of prepayments and related charges should decrease if interest rates increase. Funds Reinvestment Risk With regard to our loan portfolio, we may be unable to reinvest prepayment proceeds at rates comparable to the prepaid instruments, particularly in periods of declining interest rates. 22 Table of Contents Lending Activities Risk There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates on borrowers and changes in the economic conditions in the specific markets in which we operate, as well as changes in economic conditions regionally, nationally, and internationally. Increases in interest rates and / or continued weakening economic conditions could continue to adversely impact the ability of borrowers to pay their loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion regarding our underwriting and monitoring policies and procedures for mitigating risks inherent in our lending activities. Repayment and Collateral Risk We have sustained losses primarily because borrowers, guarantors, or related parties have failed to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, and we could sustain additional losses for these reasons. In an economic downturn, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors, and collateral values may decline. At December 31, 2009, a significant portion of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans and loans secured by construction, land development, other land, and nonfarm nonresidential real estate. Loans secured by construction, land development, other land, and nonfarm nonresidential real estate are generally viewed as having more risk of default than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction, and the estimated cost of construction. Commercial and industrial loans are generally more risky than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because those loans are typically not secured by real estate collateral. An adverse development with respect to one lending relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared with a single-family residential mortgage loan because we typically have more than one loan with such borrowers. Additionally, these loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared with single-family residential mortgage loans. Therefore, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant decline in the related asset quality. In addition, many economists believe that deterioration in income producing commercial real estate is likely to worsen as vacancy rates continue to rise and absorption rates of existing square footage and/or units continue to decline. Because of the general economic slowdown we are currently experiencing, these loans represent higher risk and could result in a sharp increase in loans charged-off and could require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Although they represent a relatively small portion of our loan portfolio, we are subject to risk with regard to our installment loans, particularly loans that are unsecured or secured by depreciating asset values. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted installment loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, installment loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability and are more likely to be adversely impacted by job loss, divorce, illness, or personal bankruptcy. Additionally, the application of federal and state legislation or regulatory action may reduce the amount that our borrowers are required to pay or limit our ability to foreclose on properties or other collateral, which makes foreclosure less economically feasible. Real Estate Market Risk While we do not have any subprime loans at December 31, 2009, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the 23 Table of Contents event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. We have identified credit concerns with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio which are primarily related to the downturn in the real estate market. The real estate market has been substantially impacted by the current economic environment, increased levels of inventories of unsold homes, and higher foreclosure rates. As a result, property values for this type of collateral have declined substantially and market appraisal assumptions continue to trend downward significantly. These loans carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing real estate since repayment is dependent on the ultimate completion of the project or home and usually on the sale of the property or permanent financing. Slow housing conditions have affected some of these borrowers’ ability to sell the completed projects in a timely manner, and we believe that these trends are likely to continue. In some cases, this downturn has resulted in a significant impairment to the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. As a result, we incurred substantially higher charge-offs in 2009 and increased our allowance for loan losses during 2009 to address the probable credit risks inherent within our loan portfolio. Further deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market may cause us to adjust our opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to an additional increase in our provisions for loan losses, which could also adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Lack of Loan Portfolio Seasoning Risk We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • An ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio, • Our historical loan loss experience, • An evaluation of economic conditions, • Regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, and • The amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. However, there is no precise method of estimating credit losses, since any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. In addition, due to our growth over the past several years, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio were originated in recent years, and we have an increased number of individually larger loans. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as seasoning. As a result, a portfolio of more mature loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because a large portion of our loans secured by construction, land development, other land, multifamily, and nonfarm nonresidential real estate is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If charge-offs in future periods increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would decrease our net income and our capital. Although we believe our allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of probable and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels to reflect the changing risk inherent in our portfolio of existing loans and any additions to our loan portfolio, which may impact our short-term earnings. Investment Securities Market Risk Forty-seven percent, based on fair value, of our investment securities portfolio is comprised of private label mortgage-based securities collateralized by residential real estate. Dramatic declines in the housing market over 24 Table of Contents the past two years have negatively impacted the market for some investment securities and resulted in significant writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. As previously discussed, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. As a result, the market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become volatile over the past 24 months. Further, the current difficult market conditions may also result in credit downgrades of mortgage and bond issues that may reduce the fair value of our investment portfolio and may result in a determination that our investment securities are other-than-temporarily impaired which could cause us to writedown the carrying value of the portfolio and would reduce our net income. Such reductions to net income would also result in a material adverse impact on our capital levels. Liquidity and Funding Risk The goal of liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities and withdrawals, and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this goal, our Asset/Liability Committee establishes liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans, issuance of additional equity securities, and other sources could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities and with terms acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that impact us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as the current disruption in the financial markets and negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a result of the continuing turmoil and deterioration in the credit markets. Historically, we have relied on traditional and nontraditional deposits, advances from the FHLB and Federal Reserve, funding from correspondent banks, and other borrowings to fund our operations. As a result of negative financial performance indicators, some of the Bank’s various sources of liquidity are now restricted. The Bank’s credit risk rating at the FHLB has been negatively impacted, resulting, initially, in reduced borrowing capacity. In January 2010, we were notified by the FHLB that it will not allow additional advances until our financial condition improves. In addition, there is also a risk that the Bank’s ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Discount Window could be curtailed or eliminated. We actively monitor the depository institutions that hold our federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. We cannot provide assurances that access to our cash and cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and we diversify cash, due from banks, and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure relating to any one of these entities. We routinely review the financials of our counterparties as part of our risk management process. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail. Because we are no longer well-capitalized, unless a determination is received from the FDIC that we are operating in a high-rate area, we cannot offer an effective yield on deposits in excess of 75 basis points of the national rate paid on deposits of comparable size and maturity as published weekly by the FDIC on their website. In addition, we cannot accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval. Although we currently do not utilize brokered deposits as a funding source, if we were to seek to begin using such funding source, there is no assurance that the FDIC will grant us the approval when requested. These restrictions could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. 25 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our sources of funds will be adequate for our liquidity needs, and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Specifically, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively impacted by the recent adverse economic conditions, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and future prospects could be materially adversely impacted. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion regarding our liquidity and funding activities. Asset Growth Restriction Risk Minimum capital adequacy requirements restrain asset growth by requiring that asset growth be funded by a commensurate amount of additional capital. Some of the alternatives available for increasing minimum capital ratio levels include increased retained earnings, sale of additional stock, and reduced asset growth. Retained earnings may be increased through a combination of higher income and lower cash dividend payouts. An increase in retained earnings improves capital ratios assuming the increase exceeds asset growth. Historically, our primary source of capital has been through retained earnings. As part of a long-term plan to minimize shareholder dilution, we have not historically sold additional stock. However, to strengthen our capital position, we are currently pursuing potential capital raising alternatives, which could include issuing additional common or preferred stock to parties other than existing shareholders. The sale of additional stock to increase our capital could result in dilution to our existing shareholders and may not be sufficient to address capital requirements. We may be required to reduce asset growth to manage our regulatory capital position as defined by the applicable regulatory framework. Restraining asset growth could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 1. Business for further discussion regarding the capital adequacy requirements for the Company and the Bank. Capital Adequacy Risk Regulatory authorities require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As described herein, we have an immediate need to increase our capital ratios which requires us to raise additional capital and/or reduce the size of our balance sheet. In addition, even if we succeed in raising this capital, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support growth. The ability to raise additional capital depends in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, additional capital may not be raised, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to increase our capital ratios could be materially impaired. In addition, based on discussions with the FDIC following its most recent safety and soundness examination of the Bank in November 2009, the Bank presently expects to receive a written agreement from the FDIC some time in 2010 which could require the Bank to take certain actions to address concerns raised in the examination, including maintaining capital ratios in excess of the minimum thresholds required for a bank to be well-capitalized. If the Bank were to receive a written agreement and if the Bank were to fail to comply with the requirements in such written agreement, it may be subject to further regulatory action including being placed into a federal conservatorship or receivership. If that were to occur, shareholders could suffer a complete loss in the value of their ownership interest in the Company. Lastly, if we issue additional equity capital in any manner other than pro rata to our existing shareholders, our existing shareholders’ interest would be diluted. At this time, we currently expect to issue common or preferred stock in the near-term; however, the Board of Directors has not yet determined the type, 26 Table of Contents timing, amount, or terms of securities to be issued in a capital offering, and we currently do not have any arrangements, agreements or commitments to issue any common or preferred stock. There is also no assurance that we would be successful in raising this capital. Dividend Payment Risk The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for such dividends. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and has historically relied on dividends from the Bank as a viable source of funds to service the Company’s operating expenses, which typically include dividends to holders of our common stock; however, given the Bank’s recent losses, this source of liquidity is not currently available nor is it expected to be available for the foreseeable future. The Company and the Bank are subject to regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. Federal regulatory authorities are authorized to determine under certain circumstances that the payment of dividends by a bank holding company or a bank would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment of those dividends. Federal regulatory authorities have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current income. In addition, as a South Carolina chartered bank, the Bank is subject to limitations on the amount of dividends that it is permitted to pay. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion regarding our dividends. Deposit Insurance Assessment Risk As discussed in Item 1. Business, the Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the deposit insurance. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Due to the recent failures of several unaffiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions, and the FDIC’s new TLGP, the deposit insurance premium assessments paid by all banks have increased. In addition to the increases to deposit insurance assessments approved by the FDIC, the Bank’s risk category also changed as of June 30, 2009 as a result of the risk-based capital ratios which also increased the Bank’s premium assessments. The FDIC assessed a 5-basis point special assessment which was paid in September 2009. Also in September 2009, the FDIC adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to require insured financial institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010, 2011 and 2012. We applied for and received an exemption to the prepayment assessment. The FDIC Board of Directors also voted to adopt a uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates effective on January 1, 2011. The FDIC has also indicated that it intends to propose changes to the deposit insurance premium assessment system that will shift a greater share of any increase in such assessments onto institutions with higher risk profiles. As a result, we anticipate our future insurance costs to be substantially higher than in previous periods. Although we cannot predict what the insurance assessment rates will be in the future, further deterioration in either risk-based capital ratios or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The FDIC may terminate deposit insurance of any insured depository institution if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, shall continue to be insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. 27 Table of Contents Monetary Policy Risk Changes made by the Federal Reserve in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only our interest income earned on loans and securities and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowed funds, but could also impact our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and the average duration of our mortgage-servicing rights and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. Federal Reserve policies also can adversely impact borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies, which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict or anticipate, could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Strategic Project Plan Execution Risk Our future performance will depend on our ability to implement successfully the Strategic Project Plan approved by the Board of Directors in June 2009 to address our credit quality, liquidity, earnings, and capital. Among other tasks, this implementation will involve a variety of complex tasks, including improving our credit quality (e.g., through reducing our level of nonperforming assets by continuing to aggressively work problem credits, exploring a bulk sale of loans or real estate acquired in settlement of loans, and possibly requiring additional writedowns to facilitate disposition), monitoring and accessing required liquidity, raising capital, and improving earnings. Any failure or delay in executing these initiatives, whether due to regulatory delays or for other reasons which may be beyond our control, is likely to impede, and could ultimately preclude, our successful implementation of our Strategic Project Plan and could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risk of Failure to Comply with Government Regulation and Supervision Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities. Given the current disruption in the financial markets, we expect that the government will continue to pass new regulations and laws that will impact us. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, and policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and damage to our reputation. While we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to prevent violations of these laws, regulations, and policies, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See Item 1. Business for further discussion regarding the Company’s and the Bank’s supervision and regulation. Loss of Key Personnel Risk We depend on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. As a result, the Board of Directors may have to search outside of our Company for qualified permanent replacements. This search may be prolonged, and we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to locate and hire qualified replacements. Limited Public Trading Market Stock Risk Our common stock is not traded or authorized for quotation on any exchanges, including NASDAQ. On June 26, 2009, we launched a Private Trading System on our website (www.palmettobank.com). The Private Trading System is a passive mechanism created to assist buyers and sellers in facilitating trades in our common stock. Thus, the liquidity of our common stock depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers. We cannot provide assurance that shareholders will be able to sell their shares on the Private Trading System at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. 28 Table of Contents We are not currently seeking listing of our common stock on a securities exchange such as NASDAQ. In the future, we may seek such a listing to improve liquidity in our stock for our shareholders. Deferred Income Tax Asset Valuation Risk Deferred income tax represents the tax impact of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by us to determine if they are realizable. Factors in our determination include the ability to carry back or carry forward net operating losses and the performance of the business including the ability to generate taxable income from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently subjective because it requires the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. We may not achieve sufficient future taxable income as the basis for the ultimate realization of our net deferred tax asset, and, therefore, we may have to establish a full or partial valuation allowance at some point in the future. If we determine that a valuation allowance is necessary, it would require us to incur a charge to our results of operations that would adversely impact our earnings and capital position. Goodwill Valuation Risk Goodwill arose from our acquisition of various branches from 1988 through 1999. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of businesses acquired over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units and is then tested for impairment at least annually, or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances arise that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. Once an impairment loss is recognized, future increases in fair value do not result in the reversal of previously recognized losses. To the extent a reporting unit’s carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an indication exists that the reporting unit’s goodwill may be impaired and a second step of impairment tests will be performed. The fair value of our reporting unit is generally calculated based on our stock price. A further reduction in our stock price may require a second step of impairment tests to be performed. If we determine in the future that our goodwill is impaired, we would be required to record an impairment charge to our results of operations that would adversely impact our earnings and capital position. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes 1 and 6 for further discussion regarding our goodwill and the related impairment testing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 