ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the matters described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Our business operations may be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently consider immaterial. Our business, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected if any of the following risks actually occur. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. The market for our products, in particular our Multi-Mix® products, is new and rapidly evolving. If we are not able to develop or enhance our products, or to respond to customer needs, our net sales will suffer. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to develop and market our new line of Multi-Mix® modules, filters, couplers and delay lines products, particularly to the wireless base station and defense sectors. We will also need to continually enhance our existing core products (passive RF and microwave component assemblies, power dividers and other micro circuitry products), lower product cost and develop new products that maintain technological competitiveness. Our core products must meet changing customer, regulatory and particular technological requirements and standards, and our Multi-Mix® products especially must respond to the changing needs of our customers, particularly our OEM customers. These customer requirements might or might not be compatible with our current or future product offerings. We might not be successful in modifying our products and services to address these requirements and standards and our business could suffer. We have incurred losses this past fiscal year and may incur losses in the future. We recorded a net loss of $2,225,000 for the year ended December 30, 2006. The Company experienced a declining level of sales and operating income for 2006, primarily resulting from materially decreased bookings in 2006 and resulting lower backlog of the Company’s traditional products, particularly products sold by its Filtran subsidiary. The Company also experienced the loss of certain anticipated orders as well as delays in space and defense program orders, including Multi-Mix® products, during the past fiscal year. We may incur losses in any of our future periods. Even if we do achieve profitability in future periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability in the short-term or long-term, on a quarterly or an annual basis, in subsequent periods. If our financial results fall below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock may suffer. Multi-Mix® Microtechnology and Multi-Mix PICO® Products. We have made capital investments of approximately $15.0 million in our proprietary line of Multi-Mix® Microtechnology products. While we have generated sales and developed a customer base for our Multi-Mix® products, if a competitive product or decreased consumer demand for our Multi-Mix® products resulted in significant decrease in those sales, our ability to recover our investment in our Multi-Mix® Microtechnology product assets could be negatively impacted and result in a write off of the carrying value of these assets and an impairment charge to our earnings. In addition, we have invested significant engineering, research and development, personnel and other resources in developing our Multi-Mix Zapper® product line, introduced in June 2004. While sales to date have not been material, we intend to incur significant additional expenses, including sales and marketing costs, in implementing our strategic plan to commercialize various applications of our Multi-Mix® technologies. These products are direct drop-in replacements for competing technologies used in virtually all wireless base stations. There are competing technologies already in the marketplace, and in order to obtain market share we will have to convince cus tomers to convert to our products from those that are already in use. 15 Table of Contents We may seek to enter into joint ventures, research and development, distribution and other arrangements with third party OEM’s, defense contractors, universities and research institutions and others in order to successfully market our Multi-Mix® products. In fact, we may find it necessary to enter into such arrangements if our own resources are inadequate to develop recurring sales and a sustained commercial market for these products. There can be no assurance we will be able to enter into such arrangements, or do so on commercially attractive terms, if necessary. Our business plan anticipates significant future sales from our Multi-Mix® products. Due to economic and market conditions in the wireless industry over the past several years, telecommunications system service providers substantially reduced their capital equipment purchases from our customers. While these circumstances have resulted in the delay or cancellation of Multi-Mix® Microtechnology product purchases that had been anticipated from certain specific customers or programs, in connection with the improved conditions in the industry, the Company has implemented a strategic plan utilizing product knowledge and customer focus to expand specific sales opportunitie s. Continued extended delay or reduction from planned levels in new orders expected from customers for these products could require the Company to pursue alternatives related to the utilization or realization of these assets and commitments. If we are unable to generate significant future sales from these Multi-Mix® products or identify alternative uses, sufficient to recover our investment, we could have to write down the carrying value of these assets, thereby incurring an impairment charge to earnings, which would significantly harm our operations and financial condition. We rely on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our net sales, and declines in sales to these customers could adversely affect our operating results. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for 42.1% of our net sales in the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006 and our largest customer, Raytheon Company, accounted for 11.1% of our 2006 sales. For 2005, Israel Aircraft Industries Ltd., Lockheed Martin Corporation and Raytheon Company, accounted for 11.2%, 10.9% and 10.5%, respectively, of our net sales for that period. We depend on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers, substantially all of which operate in an environment characterized by rapid technological change, short product life cycle, consolidation, and pricing and margin pressures. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. Consolidation among our customers may further concentrate our business in a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. In addition, a significant reduction in sales to any of our large customers or significant pricing and margin pressures exerted by a key customer would adversely affect our operating results. In the past, some of our large customers have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of products ordered from us as a result of changes in their business, consolidation or divestitures or for other reasons. We cannot be certain that present or future large customers will not terminate their arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of products ordered from us, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. A substantial portion of our sales are related to the defense and military communications sectors. However, in times of armed conflict or war, military spending is concentrated on armaments build up, maintenance and troop support, and not on the research and development and specialty applications that are the Company’s core strengths and revenue generators. Accordingly, our defense and military product sales may decrease, and should not be expected to increase, at times of armed conflicts or war. Our products are intended for use in various sectors of the satellite, defense and telecommunications industries, which produces technologically advanced products with short life cycles. Factors affecting the satellite, defense and telecommunications industries, in particular the short life cycle of certain products, could seriously harm our customers and reduce the volume of products they purchase from us. These factors include: – the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards that result in short product life cycles; 16 Table of Contents – the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested; and – the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. The expenses relating to our products might increase, which could reduce our gross margins. In the past, developing engineering solutions, meeting research and development challenges and overcoming production and manufacturing issues have resulted in additional expenses. These expenses create pressure on our average selling prices and may result in decreased margins of our products. We expect that this will continue. In the future, competition could increase, and we anticipate this may result in additional pressure on our pricing. We also may not be able to increase the price of our products in the event that the cost of components or overhead increase. Changes in exchange rates between the United States and Canadian dollars, and other currencies, might result in further disparity between our costs and selling price and hurt our ability to maintain gross margins. We carry inventory and there is a risk we may be unable to dispose of certain items. We procure inventory based on specific customer orders and forecasts. Customers have certain rights of modification with respect to these orders and forecasts. As a result, customer modifications to orders and forecasts affecting inventory previously procured by us and our purchases of inventory beyond customer needs may result in excess and obsolete inventory for the related customers. Although we may be able to use some of these excess components and raw materials in other products we manufacture, a portion of the cost of this excess inventory may not be recoverable from customers, nor may any excess quantities be returned to the vendors. We also may not be able to recover the cost of obsolete inventory from vendors or customers. Write offs or write downs of inventory generally arise from: – declines in the market value of inventory; – changes in customer demand for inventory, such as cancellation of orders; and – our purchases of inventory beyond customer needs that result in excess quantities on hand and that we are not able to return to the vendor or charge back to the customer. Our products and therefore our inventories are subject to technological risk. At any time either new products may enter the market or prices of competitive products may be introduced with more attractive features or at lower prices than ours. There is a risk we may be unable to sell our inventory in a timely manner and avoid it becoming obsolete. As of December 30, 2006, our inventories including raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods, were valued at $3.9 million reflecting reductions due to valuation allowances for obsolescence and cost overruns of approximately $1.2 million against these inventories. In the event we are required to substantially discount our inventory or are unable to sell our inventory in a timely manner, we would be required to increase our valuation allowances and our operating results could be substantially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of suppliers. Electronic devices, components and made-to-order assemblies used in our traditional (i.e., non-Multi-Mix) products are generally obtained from a number of suppliers, although certain components are obtained from a limited number of suppliers. Some devices or components are standard items while others are manufactured to our specifications by our suppliers. Except as described below, we believe that most raw materials used in manufacturing our products are available from alternative suppliers. We do not have binding agreements or commitments with our suppliers for the quantity and prices of our raw materials. Our reliance on suppliers, especially sole source or limited suppliers, involves the risks of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules and costs. While there may be alternative qualified suppliers for some of these components, substitutes for certain materials are not readily available. Any significant interruption in delivery of such items could have an adverse effect on our operations. 17 Table of Contents Manufacturing of our Multi-Mix products requires certain components and raw materials that currently are only available from a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers, particularly for products intended for specific applications. Our Multi-Mix products utilize certain substrate materials in the fusion bonding process, currently obtained from a single vendor. Although there may be alternative types of substrates that are under evaluation, we have designed its current Multi-Mix products utilizing the current source of supply, and use of alternative substrates could result in design, engineering, manufacturing, performance and cost challenges and delays. In addition, certain Multi-Mix products utilizing high power RF circuitry designed for telecommunications/wireless base station infrastructure applications require the use of LDMOS transistors which are not currently generally commercially available in the configurations required by us. Our Multi-Mix Resource Module would require such commercially unavailable components when used for commercial high power amplifier base station infrastructure applications but does not depend on these components for military and other commercial applications for which a variety of components are available in the proper configuration from a number of alternative sources. In order to commercialize this high power base station LDMOS application of the Multi-Mix Resource Module, we would need to establish a supply relationship with a vendor willing to provide commercial quantities of the needed components in a configuration that would maximize the value of the patented Multi-Mix Reso urce Module for this market. The Company continues to seek to establish a supply relationship with an LDMOS transistor provider able to provide such components, and is also considering alternative configurations and components. There is no assurance we will be able to establish such a vendor relationship or alternatives, in which case we would be unable to manufacture commercial quantities of Multi-Mix products for high power base station infrastructure applications, which would have a material adverse effect on our value proposition and marketing efforts with potential customers and our results of operations and profitability. Any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of such raw materials on a timely basis, and at economic prices, could result in design and engineering changes and expenses, shipment delays and/or an inability to manufacture certain Multi-Mix products. Significant increases in the costs of such materials could also have a material adverse effect on our value proposition and marketing efforts with potential customers and our results of operations and profitability. We generally do not obtain long-term volume purchase commitments from customers, and, therefore, cancellations, reductions in production quantities and delays in production by our customers could adversely affect our operating results. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, choose not to exercise options for further product purchases, reduce production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. In the event our customers experience significant decreases in demand for their products and services, our customers may cancel orders, delay the delivery of some of the products that we manufactured or place purchase orders for fewer products than we previously anticipated. Even when our customers are contractually obligated to purchase products from us, we may be unable or, for other business reasons, choose not to enforce our contractual rights. Cancellations, reductions or delays of orders by customers would: – adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volumes of products that we manufacture for our customers; – delay or eliminate recoupment of our expenditures for inventory purchased in preparation for customer orders; and – lower our asset utilization, which would result in lower gross margins. Products we manufacture may contain design or manufacturing defects that could result in reduced demand for our services and liability claims against us. We manufacture products to our customers’ specifications that are highly complex and may at times contain design or manufacturing defects. Defects have been discovered in products we manufactured in the past and despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may 18 Table of Contents occur in the future. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by design, manufacturing or component defects, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. Should these defects occur in large quantities or frequently, our business reputation may also be tarnished. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us. Even if customers are responsible for the defects, we may assume responsibility for any costs or payments. We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations. A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of sales, operating margins and sales. Our Canadian operations were adversely impacted in fiscal 2005 as a result of changes in the Canadian and U.S. Dollar exchange rates. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries that have non-U.S. dollar functional currencies transact business in U.S. dollars. Variations in our quarterly operating results could occur due to factors including changes in demand for our products, the timing of shipments and changes in our mix of net sales. Our quarterly net sales, expenses and operating results have varied in the past and might vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance, and should not be relied on to predict our future performance. Our short-term expense levels and manufacturing and production facilities infrastructure overhead are relatively fixed and are based on our expectations of future net sales. If we were to experience a reduction in net sales in a quarter, we could have difficulty adjusting our short-term expenditures and absorbing our excess capacity expenses. If this were to occur, our operating results for that quarter would be negatively impacted. Other factors that might cause our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly basis include: – customer decisions to defer, accelerate or cancel orders; – timing of shipments of orders for our products; – changes in the mix of net sales attributable to higher-margin and lower-margin products; – changes in product mix which could cause unexpected engineering or research and development costs; – announcements or introductions of new products by our competitors; – engineering or production delays due to product defects or quality problems and production yield issues; and – dynamic defense budgets which could cause military program delays or cancellations. Recent changes in accounting for equity-related compensation could impact our financial statements. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), ‘‘Share-Based Payment’’ (‘‘SFAS 123R’’). SFAS 123R is a revision of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, as amended, ‘‘Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation’’ (‘‘SFAS 123’’) and supercedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, ‘‘Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees’’. SFAS 123R eliminates the alternative to use the intrinsic value method of accounting that was provided in SFAS 123, which generally resulted in no compensation expense being recorded in the financial statements related to the issuance of equity awards to employees. SFAS 123R requires us to measure all employee share-based compensation awards using a fair value method and to record such expense in the consolidated financial statements, as opposed to the pro forma note presentation previously used. We adopted SFAS 123R at the beginning of its first quarter in fiscal 2006, and will apply the provisions of the statement prospectively for any newly issued, modified or settled award after the date of initial adoption, as well as for any awards that were granted prior to the adoption date for which the requisite service period has not 19 Table of Contents been provided as of the adoption date. We continue to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate total stock compensation expense. The adoption of this statement resulted in a non-cash charge of $189,000 to its operations. As of December 30, 2006 the total future compensation cost related to non-vested stock options and the employee stock purchase plan not yet recognized in the statement of operations was $287,000. Of that total, $154,000, $102,000 and $31,000 are expected to be recognized in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We have significant competition in our industry. The microwave component and subsystems industry continues to be highly competitive. We compete against many companies, both foreign and domestic, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. Our direct competitors in the commercial market are Anaren, Sirenza, Vari-L, Radiall and Sochen. Our major competitors in the military market are Anaren, M/A Com, L-3 Communications (Narda), Sage, TRM and KW Microwave. Major competitors for our Filtran subsidiary in the microwave micro-circuitry market are Labtech, MPC and Precision Instruments. As a direct supplier to OEMs, we also face significant competition from the in-house capabilities of our customers. However, the current trend in the wireless marketplace has been for the OEMs to outsource more design and production work, thereby freeing up their internal resources for other use. Thus, we believe that internal customer competition exists predominantly in our defense and satellite businesse s. In the wireless market, increased price pressure from our customers is a continuing challenge. It is anticipated that this pricing pressure will continue indefinitely. The principal competitive factors are technical performance, reliability, ability to produce in volume, on-time delivery and price. Based on these factors, we believe that it competes favorably in its markets. We believe that it is particularly strong in the areas of technical performance and on-time delivery in the wireless marketplace. We believe that it competes favorably on price as well. The RF Microwave components industry is highly competitive and has become more so as defense spending has changed program-spending profiles. Furthermore, current Department of Defense efforts are shifting funds to support troops engaged in existing hostilities around the world. We compete against numerous U.S. and foreign providers with global operations, as well as those who operate on a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of manufacturing products internally. Changes in the industries and sectors we service could significantly harm our ability to compete, and consolidation trends could result in larger competitors that may have significantly greater resources with which to compete against us. We may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to manufacturers who have greater direct buying power from component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers or who have lower cost structures. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or increase their competition with us. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced sales and margins or loss of market share. Intellectual property rights in our industry are commonly subject to challenge. Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. We do not believe our intellectual properties infringe those of others, and are not aware that any third party is infringing our intellectual property rights. A risk always exists that third parties, including current and potential competitors, could claim that our products, or our customers’ products, infringe on their intellectual property rights or that we have misappropriated their intellectual property. We may discover that a third party is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, or has been issued an infringing patent. Infringement suits are time consuming, complex, and expensive to litigate. Such litigation could cause a delay in the introduction of new products, require us to develop non-infringing technology, require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, if available, or require us to pay substantial 20 Table of Contents damages. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial expenses and costs in case of a successful indemnification claim. A significant negative impact would result if a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the preservation and protection of our product and manufacturing process designs and other proprietary technology. To protect our proprietary technology, we generally limit access to our technology, treat portions of such technology as trade secrets, and obtain confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements from persons with access to the technology. Our agreements with our employees prohibit employees from disclosing any confidential information, technology developments and business practices, and from disclosing any confidential information entrusted to us by other parties. Consultants engaged by us who have access to confidential information generally sign an agreement requiring them to keep confidential and not disclose any non-public confidential information. We currently have 21 active patents. We plan to pursue intellectual property protection in foreign countries, primarily in the form of international patents, in instances where the technology covered is considered important enough to justify the added expense. By agreement, our employees who initiate or contribute to a patentable design or process are obligated to assign their interest in any potential patent to us. Our executive officers, engineers, research and development and technical personnel are critical to our business, and without them we might not be able to execute our business strategy. Our financial performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We are dependent in particular on Mason N. Carter, who serves as our Chief Executive Officer, Reynold Green, our Chief Operating Officer, Robert Condon, who serves as our Chief Financial Officer and James Logothetis, our Chief Technology Officer. We are also dependent upon our other highly skilled engineering, research and development and technical personnel, due to the specialized technical nature of our business. If we lose the services of any of our key personnel and are not able to find replacements in a timely manner, our business could be disrupted, other key personnel might decide to leave, and we might incur increased operating expenses associated with finding and compensating replacements. Our industry is subject to numerous government regulations. Our products are incorporated into telecom and wireless communications systems that are subject to regulation domestically by various government agencies, including the Federal Communications Commission and internationally by other government agencies. In addition, because of our participation in the satellite and defense industry, we are subject to audit from time to time for compliance with government regulations by various governmental agencies. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal government regulations relating to environmental laws, as they relate to toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. We believe that we operate our business in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, any failure to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Export controls. Our products are subject to the Export Administration Regulations (‘‘EAR’’) administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce and may, in certain instances, be subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (‘‘ITAR’’) administered by the U.S. Department of State. EAR restricts the export of dual-use products and technical data to certain countries, while ITAR restricts the export of defense products, technical data and defense services. We believe that it has implemented internal export procedures and controls in order to achieve compliance with the applicable U.S. export control regulations. However, the U.S. government agencies responsible for administering EAR and ITAR 21 Table of Contents have significant discretion in the interpretation and enforcement of these regulations, and it is possible that these regulations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell its products to non-U.S. customers. Some of our operations are outside the United States, which poses risks to our business operations. A significant percentage of our sales is derived from the operations of its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Costa Rica and Canada. These sales are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations which include, without limitation, fluctuating currency exchange rates, changing political and economic conditions, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, greater difficulty and expense in administering business abroad, complications in complying with foreign laws and changes in regulatory requirements, and cultural differences in the conduct of business. While we believe that current political and economic conditions in Canada and Costa Rica are relatively stable, such conditions may adversely change so as to effect underlying business assumptions about the current opportunities which exist for doing business in those countries. In particular, the government in Costa Rica could change, the currency exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars may change adversely (as occurred in 2005 and 2004), or the cost of labor and/or goods and services necessary to our operations may increase. In future periods, we may be required to record an impairment charge against goodwill, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As of December 30, 2006, we had approximately $3,500,000 of goodwill on its balance sheet. This amount represents the remaining excess of the total purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired of our acquisition of FMI. Goodwill is subject to at least an annual assessment for impairment and more frequently if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. If we are required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, such charges would have the effect of decreasing our net income or increasing losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, net income per share or net loss per share could be materially adversely affected in such period. If we are unable to assess that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as of the end of our 2007 fiscal year or if we receive other than an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 3, 2009 and future year-ends as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on both management’s assessment as to whether the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting and on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We are currently undergoing a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. As of the end of our 2007 fiscal year, we are required to provide the report of management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in our annual report containing the assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If, at the end of fiscal year 2007, management is unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and if our independent auditors issue other than an unqualified opinion on the design, operating effectiveness or management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting for fiscal year 2008, this could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. 22 Table of Contents 