ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes impact the Company are described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted. If this were to happen, the value of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to certain regulatory requirements and restrictions. The Supervisory Authorities notified us that the Consent Order the Bank had been operating under since June 2010 was terminated effective January 30, 2013. Although the Consent Order has been terminated, certain regulatory requirements and restrictions remain including requirements to continue to improve credit quality and earnings, a restriction prohibiting dividend payments by the Bank to the Company without prior approval from the Supervisory Authorities and the maintenance of a specified leverage capital ratio at the Bank. Our decisions regarding credit risk and allowance for loan losses may materially and adversely impact our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is impacted by a number of factors, including: ● The duration of the credit, ● Credit risks of a particular client, ● The quality of the underwriting, ● Changes in economic and industry conditions and ● In the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. 18 We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for inherent losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: ● Evaluations of the collectability of loans in our portfolio including consideration of factors such as the balance of impaired loans and the quality, mix and size of our overall loan portfolio, ● Economic conditions that may impact the overall loan portfolio or an individual borrower’s ability to repay, ● The amount and quality of collateral securing the loans, ● Our historical loan loss experience and ● Borrower and collateral specific considerations for loans individually evaluated for impairment. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes subsequent to the determination of the allowance for loan losses. Therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses, and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income (or increase in our net loss) and possibly our capital. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision for loan losses or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have higher actual loan losses than our recorded allowance for loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Our actual loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses, and, therefore, our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. As of December 31, 2013, 59.3% of our gross loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent, and that a portion of loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control including, among other things, changes in market conditions impacting the value of loan collateral and problems impacting borrowers’ credit. If our allowance for loan losses is determined to be inadequate, we will be required to make additional provision for loan losses, which could further adversely impact our results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will not sustain credit losses requiring additions to the provision for loan losses in excess of present levels. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. At December 31, 2013, 83.2% our gross loan portfolio was secured by real estate. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The real estate market was substantially impacted by the Great Recession and its aftermath, which has led to reduced real estate values for residential and commercial properties, increased levels of inventories of unsold homes and resulted in higher foreclosure rates. As a result, property values for this type of collateral declined substantially and, although stabilizing, market appraisal assumptions remain depressed. These loans carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing real estate since repayment is dependent on the ultimate completion of the project or home and often on the sale of the property or permanent financing. Slow housing conditions have impacted some of these borrowers’ ability to sell the completed projects in a timely manner, and we believe that these trends are likely to continue. In some cases, this downturn has resulted in a significant impairment in the value of the real estate collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. As a result, during 2009 through 2013, we incurred substantially higher charge-offs than we have historically experienced, and we maintained our allowance for loan losses during these periods at levels higher than historically maintained to address the probable credit losses inherent within our loan portfolio. Potential further deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market may cause us to adjust our opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to additional provisions for loan losses, which could also adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate and continued depressed commercial real estate conditions could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2013, 59.3% of our loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally viewed as having more risk of default than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Loans secured by commercial real estate are also generally more risky than loans secured by residential real estate or consumer loans because the collateral securing commercial real estate loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. An adverse development with respect to one lending relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared with a single-family residential mortgage loan because we typically have more than one loan with such borrowers. Additionally, these loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared with single-family residential mortgage loans. Therefore, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant decline in the related asset quality. Because of the severity of the most recent recession and lack of a more typical recovery, these loans represent higher risk, could result in a sharp increase in loans charged-off and could require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general pose significant challenges for our industry and us and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued since then in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets and a general economic downturn, both nationally and in our primary markets in South Carolina. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performance deteriorated at many institutions, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. As a result, we face the following risks: ● Economic conditions that negatively impact housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolios to deteriorate, ● Market developments that impact consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our clients, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities, ● The processes that we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments, such as forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, ● The value of our securities portfolio may decline and ● Increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase. These conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle-market clients. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important client sector, our financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years, and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 The severity of the economic downturn and lack of a typical recovery could reduce our client base, level of deposits and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets. The Great Recession and its aftermath has negatively impacted the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally do not continue to improve, our business may be negatively impacted. A continuation of the generally depressed economic conditions or entering a prolonged recession would likely result in the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest and fees on loans represented 90.1% and 88.3% of our interest income for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If economic conditions deteriorate or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans may be adversely impacted by negative economic conditions. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Continued unfavorable economic conditions could, therefore, have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Liquidity risks could impact operations and jeopardize our financial condition. The goal of liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet client loan requests, client deposit maturities and withdrawals and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this goal, our Asset / Liability Committee (“ALCO”) establishes liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding requirements and to avoid overdependence on volatile, less reliable funding sources. An inability to raise funds through deposits, retail repurchase agreements, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans, issuance of additional equity or debt securities and other sources could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities and with terms acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that impact us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us such as recent disruptions in the financial markets and negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a result of contracting net interest margins, increased regulatory restrictions and costs and the lack of a robust economic recovery. Historically, we have relied on deposits, retail repurchase agreements, FHLB advances, funding from correspondent banks and other borrowings to fund our operations. As a result of negative financial performance indicators in 2009 through the second quarter 2012, some of the Bank’s various sources of liquidity were restricted. However, as our financial performance has improved since the second half of 2012, our sources of available borrowings have increased. We actively monitor the depository institutions that hold our federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. We cannot provide assurances that access to our cash and cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and we diversify cash, due from banks and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure relating to any one of these entities. We routinely review the financial condition of our counterparties as part of our risk management process. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the correspondent financial institutions fail. We currently do not utilize brokered deposits as a funding source. However, this channel is available to us if we were to decide to pursue such funding. Brokered deposits generally represent time deposit accounts placed with a bank from sources outside its local market. These funds are often raised at a cost in excess of the cost of funds generated through a bank’s organic channels and do not represent true client relationships. Our ability to access the brokered deposit market without prior approval from the FDIC is contingent on maintaining a well-capitalized status under regulatory capital rules. Our ability to access the brokered deposit market can also be impacted by an FDIC order or other regulatory restrictions as a result of the Bank’s ongoing examination process. 21 There can be no assurance that our sources of funds will be adequate for our liquidity needs, and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Specifically, we may seek additional equity and/or debt in the future to achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that additional capital and/or borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively impacted by the Great Recession and its aftermath as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects could be materially adversely impacted. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely impact our financial condition. As previously disclosed in Item 1. Business, the Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain deposit insurance. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Although we cannot predict what the insurance assessment rates will be in the future, deterioration in our risk category could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. One of the key measures of our success is our amount of net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. We are subject to interest rate risk because: ● Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling, net income will initially decline), ● Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when the general level of interest rates is falling, we may reduce interest rates paid on deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest rates), ● Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield curve may impact new or repricing loan yields and funding costs differently) and/or ● The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the investment securities available for sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income). Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volumes, the mortgage-servicing rights portfolio, gain on the sale of SBA loans, the value of our defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension Plan”) assets and liabilities, BOLI income and other financial instruments directly or indirectly impacting net income. We may be unable to anticipate changes in market interest rates, which are impacted by many factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, monetary policy and other changes that impact financial markets both domestic and foreign. Our net interest income is impacted not only by the level and direction of interest rates but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest-sensitive instruments and key driver rates as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. In the event rates increase, our costs on interest-bearing liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest-earning assets resulting in a deterioration of our net interest margin. As such, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 We face strong competition for clients, which could prevent us from obtaining clients and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract clients. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage-banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. In addition, legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, to grow our business we generally have to attract our client base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents in the Upstate. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. Some competitors have more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and are able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater client convenience than our Bank. In addition, competition has increased from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential clients. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect other smaller institutions to try to compete in the markets we serve. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We may be adversely impacted by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Bank cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Bank. Any such losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on key management individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely impact our prospects. We depend on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other personnel may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. As a result, our Board of Directors may have to search outside of the Bank for qualified, permanent replacements. This search may be prolonged, and we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to locate and hire qualified replacements. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, have an adverse impact on our operations and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly-regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of branches. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. Further, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices impacting the financial services industry could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or may increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts. 23 The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material adverse impact on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business include: ● Changes to regulatory capital requirements, ● Exclusion of hybrid securities, including trust preferred securities, issued on or after May 19, 2010 from Tier 1 capital, ● Creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the CFPB, which develops and enforces rules for bank and nonbank providers of consumer financial products), ● Potential limitations on federal preemption, ● Changes to deposit insurance assessments, ● Regulation of debit interchange fees we earn, ● Changes in retail banking regulations including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge and ● Changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies in order to be implemented. Some, but not all, resulting regulations have been proposed or finalized by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended impacts, which will not be clear until after implementation. Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely impact our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we cannot predict what impact any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to investors in our common stock. New capital rules that were recently issued generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of the new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule for the Basel III capital framework, and, on July 9, 2013, the OCC also adopted a final rule, and the FDIC adopted the same provisions in the form of an interim final rule. These rules substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rules phase in beginning in 2015 and will become fully effective in 2019. The rules apply to the Company as well as to the Bank. The final rules increase capital requirements and generally include two new capital measurements that will impact us, a risk-based CET1 ratio and a capital conservation buffer. CET1 capital is a subset of Tier 1 capital and is limited to common equity (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income and certain other items. Other instruments that have historically qualified for Tier 1 treatment, including noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, are consigned to a category known as Additional Tier 1 capital and must be phased out over a period of nine years beginning in 2014. The rules permit bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in assets (such as us) to continue to include trust preferred securities and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued before May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 capital but not CET1. Tier 2 capital consists of instruments that have historically been placed in Tier 2 as well as cumulative perpetual preferred stock. 24 The final rules adjust all three categories of capital by requiring new deductions from and adjustments to capital that will result in more stringent capital requirements and may require changes in the ways we do business. Among other things, the current rule on the deduction of mortgage-servicing assets from Tier 1 capital has been revised in ways that are likely to require a greater deduction than we currently make and that will require the deduction be made from CET1. This deduction phases in over a three-year period from 2015 through 2017. Additionally, any gains on sales of mortgage loans sold into securitizations must be deducted in full from CET1. This requirement phases in over three years from 2015 through 2017. Under the earlier rule and through 2014, no deduction is required. Beginning in 2015, our minimum capital requirements will be: ● A CET1 ratio of 4.5%, ● A Tier 1 capital (CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) of 6% (up from 4%) and ● A total capital ratio of 8% (the current requirement). Our leverage ratio requirement will remain at the 4% level now required. Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer will phase in over three years ultimately requiring 2.5% on top of the CET1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements resulting in a required CET1 ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5% and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the final rules will result in higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to us. In addition to the higher required capital ratios and the new deductions and adjustments, the final rules increase the risk-weights for certain assets. As a result, we will have to hold more capital against these assets. For example, commercial real estate loans that do not meet certain new underwriting requirements must be risk-weighted at 150% rather than the current 100%. There are also new risk-weights for unsettled transactions and derivatives. We also will be required to hold capital against short-term commitments that are not unconditionally cancelable. Currently, there are no capital requirements for these off-balance sheet commitments. All changes to the risk-weights take effect fully in 2015. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for us could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk-weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying our business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions including paying dividends or buying back shares of our stock. The federal banking agencies are likely to issue new liquidity standards that could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business lines by forcing us to seek new sources of liquidity for them and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. As part of the Basel III capital process, the BCBS has finalized a new liquidity coverage ratio that requires a banking organization to hold sufficient “high-quality, liquid assets” to meet liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. A net stable funding ratio, which imposes a similar requirement over a one-year period, is also under consideration. The U.S. banking regulators have indicated that they intend to adopt such liquidity standards, although they have not yet proposed a rule. New rules could restrict our operations by compelling us to reduce our holdings of illiquid assets and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 and other laws and regulations require financial institutions to, among other duties, institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. 25 Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. Over the course of 2013, the CFPB has issued several rules on mortgage lending, notably a rule requiring all home mortgage lenders to determine a borrower's ability to repay the loan. Loans with certain terms and conditions and that otherwise meet the definition of a “qualified mortgage” may be protected from liability to a borrower for failing to make the necessary determinations. In either case, we may find it necessary to tighten our mortgage loan underwriting standards in response to the CFPB rules, which may constrain our ability to make loans consistent with our business strategies. It is our policy not to make predatory loans and to determine borrowers' ability to repay, but the law and related rules create the potential for increased liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. Additionally, they increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average interest rate charged or the points and fees charged on loans that we do originate. We are subject to federal and state fair lending laws and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice, CFPB and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the CRA and result in a wide variety of sanctions including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, any of which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank. The Federal Reserve requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under these requirements, in the future, we could be required to provide financial assistance to our Bank if the Bank experiences financial distress. A capital injection may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it, and, therefore, we may be required to borrow funds. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company's general unsecured creditors including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and would adversely impact the holding company's prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, coupled with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the possibility of additional credit rating downgrades and economic slowdowns in the U.S. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling in 2011, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+ in August 2011. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely impact the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. The U.S. government has adopted legislation to suspend the debt limit numerous times since January 2013. Currently, the debt ceiling is suspended without conditions through March 15, 2015. Moody's and Fitch have each warned that they may downgrade the U.S. government's rating if the federal debt is not stabilized. A downgrade of the U.S. government's credit rating or a default by the U.S. government to satisfy its debt obligations likely would create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which would weigh heavily on the global banking system. It is possible that any such impact could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. If we grow in the future or incur additional credit losses, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, existing shareholder interests could be diluted. We will face risks with respect to expansion through acquisitions, mergers or other business expansion. From time to time, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or a portion of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: ● The potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operational, management and market risks with respect to a target institution, ● The time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management and opening new offices, the time lag between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion, ● The recording and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse impacts on our results of operations and ● The risk of loss of key teammates and clients. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and such expansion may not result in the levels of profits we seek. Integration efforts for any future mergers and acquisitions may not be successful, and, following any future merger or acquisition after giving it effect, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frame, if at all. We may seek opportunities in the future to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. FDIC-assisted acquisitions present the risks of general acquisitions as well as some risks specific to these transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions often provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, which may include loss-sharing where the FDIC absorbs most losses on covered assets and provides some indemnity, we would be subject to many of the same risks faced when acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction without FDIC assistance. Such risks could include, among others: ● Risks associated with pricing such transactions, ● Risks associated with potential loss of deposits and client relationships and/or ● Risks of failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may require additional resources and time. For example, we may be required to service acquired problem loans, incur costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, establish processes to service acquired assets or raise additional capital, any of which may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we decide to participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions and are unable to manage these risks, then such acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Our underwriting decisions may materially and adversely impact our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances, we have made loans with loan-to-value ratios which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines or both. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio as well as credit losses. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors and other service providers or other third parties, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. Further, third parties with whom we or our clients do business or that facilitate our or our clients’ business activities including financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations and other third parties, including the South Carolina Department of Revenue which had records exposed in a 2012 security breach, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. We have disaster recovery plans and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, but there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services, could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 If our deferred tax asset is impaired in the future, our earnings and capital position may be adversely impacted. Deferred income tax represents the tax impact of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by us to determine if they are realizable. Factors used in this assessment include our ability to carryback or carryforward net operating losses, the performance of the business including its ability to generate taxable income from a variety of sources and the impact of tax planning strategies. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset must be established with a corresponding charge to income tax expense. The Private Placement was considered a change in control under the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations. Accordingly, the Company was required to evaluate potential limitation or deferral of our ability to carryforward pre-acquisition net operating losses and to determine the amount of net unrealized pre-acquisition built-in losses that also are subject to similar limitation or deferral. Under the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations, net unrealized pre-acquisition built-in losses realized within five years of the change in control on October 7, 2010 are subject to potential limitation. Through that date, the Company will continue to analyze its ability to utilize such losses to offset anticipated future taxable income as pre-acquisition built-in losses are ultimately realized. Analysis of our ability to realize deferred tax assets requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently subjective because the future occurrence of events and circumstances cannot be predicted with certainty. The net operating losses and realized built-in losses generated in 2010, 2011 and 2012 may be carried forward for income tax purposes up to 20 years. Thus, to the extent we generate sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be able to utilize the net operating losses and realized built-in losses for income tax purposes. The determination of how much of the net operating losses and realized built-in losses we expect to ultimately utilize, and the resulting recognition of these tax benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, is based on sustained trends in our profitability and the projected utilization of deferred tax assets. We are party to various lawsuits incidental to our business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties such that the expenses and ultimate exposure with respect to many of these matters cannot be ascertained. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal actions are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely impact the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse impact on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is restricted. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the Federal Reserve’s policies provide that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the bank holding company appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve’s policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks by standing ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to those banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks when necessary. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could impact the ability of the Company to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions. Since the Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and does not conduct stand-alone operations, its ability to pay dividends depends on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to it. As a South Carolina chartered bank, the Bank is subject to limitations on the amount of dividends that it is permitted to pay. Unless otherwise instructed by the State Board or the Commissioner of Banking, the Bank is generally permitted under South Carolina state banking regulations to pay cash dividends of up to 100% of net income in any calendar year without obtaining the prior approval of the State Board. Given restrictions imposed by the Supervisory Authorities, the Bank is currently prohibited from paying dividends to the Company without the prior consent of the Supervisory Authorities. In addition, under Federal Reserve regulations, a dividend cannot be paid by the Bank if it would be less than well-capitalized after the dividend. The Federal Reserve may also prevent the payment of a dividend by the Bank if it determines that the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. 29 We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, which may dilute the interests of our shareholders and may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 12,792,509 shares were outstanding as of February 21, 2014, and up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which were outstanding as of February 21, 2014. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to strengthen our capital position or to make strategic acquisitions or investments. If we determine, for any reason, that we need to raise capital, our Board of Directors generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of stock for any corporate purpose including issuance of equity-based incentives under or outside of our equity compensation plans, subject to applicable NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”) rules. Additionally, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to: ● Actual or anticipated variations in earnings, ● Initiation of coverage by analysts and their resulting recommendations or projections, ● Our announcement of developments related to our businesses, ● Operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, ● New technology used or services offered by traditional and nontraditional competitors, ● News reports of trends, concerns or irrational exuberance on the part of investors and/or ● Other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely impact the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our investors to sell their common stock when they desire and at prices they find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from normal business. Future sales of our stock by our shareholders, or the perception that those sales could occur, may cause our stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. The relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market or the perception that those sales may occur could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. 30 The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for shareholders to resell our common stock at times or at prices they find attractive. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ, our stock price constantly changes, and we expect our stock price to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our stock price is impacted by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: ● Variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets, ● Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors, ● Increase in loan losses, nonperforming loans and foreclosed real estate, ● Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, ● Announcements of new products, strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, ● The operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us, ● Our common stock listed on the small-cap Russell 2000® Index and the possibility that our common stock is removed from the Index, ● Actual or anticipated sales of our equity or equity-related securities, ● Our past and future dividend practice, ● Our creditworthiness, ● Interest rates, ● The credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, ● Developments with respect to financial institutions generally and ● Economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory, congressional or judicial events that impact us or the financial markets. In addition, the stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies and particularly those in the financial services and banking sector including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely impact our stock price, notwithstanding our operating results. Because our stock is thinly traded, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell their shares or buy additional shares when they desire to do so, and the price may be volatile. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. The prices of thinly traded stocks, such as ours, are typically more volatile than stocks traded in a large, active public market and can be more easily impacted by sales or purchases of large blocks of stock. Thinly traded stocks are also less liquid, and, because of the low volume of trades, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them or may not be able to sell them at all. Our common stock is controlled by one or more shareholders whose interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. CapGen Financial Partners (“CapGen”) and its affiliates and Patriot Financial Partners (“Patriot”) and its affiliates own approximately 44.8% and 19.2%, respectively, of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 21, 2014. As a result, CapGen and Patriot are able, individually and collectively, to exercise significant influence on our business as shareholders including influence over election of our Board of Directors and the authorization of other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. In deciding on how to vote on certain proposals, our shareholders should be aware that CapGen and Patriot may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our other shareholders. A holder with as little as a 5% interest in our Company could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” and possibly other restrictions. Any entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, or 5% or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over us, may be subject to regulation as a bank holding company in accordance with the BHCA. In addition any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain regulatory approval under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. 31 Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens and might require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in our common stock. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such a holder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking. Further, subject to an FDIC policy statement published in August 2009, under certain circumstances, holders of 5% or more of our securities could be required to be subject to certain restrictions such as an inability to sell or trade their securities for a period of three years, among other restrictions, in order for us to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction of a failed bank. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 