ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Old National’s business could be harmed by any of the risks noted below. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in Old National, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: Risks Related to Old National’s Business The current banking crisis, including the Enactment of EESA and ARRA, may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. The capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. EESA, which established TARP, was signed into law in October 2008. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the CPP to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If Old National’s actual loan losses exceed Old National’s allowance for loan losses, Old National’s net income will decrease. Old National makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of Old National’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of Old National’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of Old National’s loans. Despite Old National’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the effect of the declining economy could negatively impact the ability of Old National’s borrowers to repay loans in a timely manner and could also negatively impact collateral values. As a result, Old National may experience significant loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on Old National’s operating results. Since Old National must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, Old National’s current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. Old National’s assumptions may not anticipate the severity or duration of the current credit cycle and Old National may need to significantly increase Old National’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of Old National’s larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent or if Old National expands its commercial real estate and commercial lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Old National’s allowance for loan losses and may require Old National to increase the provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Material additions to Old National’s allowance would materially decrease Old National’s net income. There can be no assurance that Old National’s monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that Old National’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. Old National’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. Old National Bank originates commercial real estate loans, commercial loans, agricultural real estate loans, agricultural loans, consumer loans, and residential real estate loans primarily within Old National’s market areas. 10 Table of Contents Commercial real estate, commercial, consumer, and agricultural loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. • Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either Old National Bank or the borrowers. These factors include weather, commodity prices, and interest rates. Credit quality issues may continue to broaden in these sectors during 2010 depending on the severity and duration of the declining economy and current credit cycle. If Old National forecloses on collateral property, Old National may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. Old National may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect Old National’s investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case Old National will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that Old National, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of Old National’s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) environmental remediation liabilities; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the income earned from such property, and Old National may have to advance funds in order to protect Old National’s investment, or Old National may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect Old National’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. We face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future, and we may engage in de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of expenses and risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying potential new markets, as well as acquisition and merger targets; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; 11 Table of Contents • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. Economic conditions have affected and could continue to adversely affect our revenues and profits. In response to economic and market conditions, from time to time we have undertaken initiatives to reduce our cost structure where appropriate. These initiatives, as well as any future workforce and facilities reductions, may not be sufficient to meet current and future changes in economic and market conditions and allow us to achieve profitability. In addition, costs actually incurred in connection with our restructuring actions may be higher than our estimates of such costs and/or may not lead to the anticipated cost savings. Unless and until the economy, loan demand, credit quality and consumer confidence improve, it is unlikely that revenues will increase significantly, and may be reduced further. Old National operates in an extremely competitive market, and Old National’s business will suffer if Old National is unable to compete effectively. In Old National’s market area, the Company encounters significant competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial intermediaries. The Company’s competitors may have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Old National does and may offer services that Old National does not or cannot provide. Old National’s profitability depends upon Old National’s continued ability to compete successfully in Old National’s market area. The loss of key members of Old National’s senior management team could adversely affect Old National’s business. Old National believes that Old National’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of Old National’s senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit Old National. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of Old National’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect Old National’s business. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of our agents or vendors could negatively affect Old National’s reputation and business. Old National relies upon a variety of computing platforms and networks over the internet for the purposes of data processing, communication and information exchange. Despite the safeguards instituted by Old National, such systems are susceptible to a breach of security. In addition, Old National relies on the services of a variety of third-party vendors to meet Old National’s data processing and communication needs. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of Old National’s information systems or our vendors information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial loss. Such costs and/or losses could materially affect Old National’s earnings. 12 Table of Contents Fiduciary Activity Risk Factor Old National Is Subject To Claims and Litigation Pertaining To Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to Old National’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Old National they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Old National and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Old National’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Old National’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Banking Industry Changes in economic or political conditions could adversely affect Old National’s earnings, as Old National’s borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing Old National’s loans decline. Old National’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic or political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as the on-going recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, inflation, money supply and other factors beyond Old National’s control may adversely affect its asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, the Old National’s earnings. Because Old National has a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of Old National’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on Old National’s earnings. In addition, substantially all of Old National’s loans are to individuals and businesses in Old National’s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in Old National’s primary market areas which include Indiana, Kentucky and Illinois could have an adverse impact on Old National’s earnings. Markets are currently volatile The capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. The current market volatility could contribute to a further decline in the market value of certain security investments and other assets of Old National and if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on results of operations, capital or financial position. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect Old National’s results of operations and financial condition. Old National’s earnings depend substantially on Old National’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates Old National earns on loans, securities and other earning assets and (ii) the interest rates Old National pays on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond Old National’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. If market interest rates rise, Old National will have competitive pressures to increase the rates Old National pays on deposits, which could result in a decrease of Old National’s net interest income. If market interest rates decline, Old National could experience fixed rate loan prepayments and higher investment portfolio cash flows, resulting in a lower yield on earnings assets. 13 Table of Contents Old National operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which Old National is subject may adversely affect Old National’s results of operations. Old National operates in a highly regulated environment and is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) and the State of Indiana. In addition, the Treasury has certain supervisory and oversight duties and responsibilities under EESA and the CPP. See “Business — Supervision and Regulation” herein. Applicable laws and regulations may change, and such changes may adversely affect Old National’s business. Such regulation and supervision of the activities in which an institution may engage is primarily intended for the protection of the depositors and federal deposit insurance funds. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing institutions, could have a material impact on Old National and its operations. Our Internal Operations are Subject to a Number of Risks. Old National’s internal operations are subject to certain risks, including but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation at a fast pace. To keep up with its competition, Old National needs to stay abreast of innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. The cost of such technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that Old National’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of Old National. Our earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failures that are not within our direct control. Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of the Bank, an employee, a vendor, or members of the general public. We are most subject to fraud and compliance risk in connection with the origination of loans, ACH transactions, ATM transactions and checking transactions. Our largest fraud risk, associated with the origination of loans, includes the intentional misstatement of information in property appraisals or other underwriting documentation provided to us by third parties. Compliance risk is the risk that loans are not originated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our standards. There can be no assurance that we can prevent or detect acts of fraud or violation of law or our compliance standards by the third parties that we deal with. Repeated incidences of fraud or compliance failures would adversely impact the performance of our loan portfolio. Risks Related to Old National’s Stock We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. Old National has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on Old National’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by Old National’s Board of Directors. 14 Table of Contents The price of Old National’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of Old National’s common stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of Old National’s common stock to fluctuate: • announcements of developments related to Old National’s business; • fluctuations in Old National’s results of operations; • sales or purchases of substantial amounts of Old National’s securities in the marketplace; • general conditions in Old National’s banking niche or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • Old National’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. Old National’s charter documents and federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction that may favor or otherwise limit Old National’s growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of Old National’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of Old National’s charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of Old National. In addition, Old National must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before acquiring control of any other company. On February 2, 2010 Old National’s Board of Directors elected not to extend the Old National Rights Agreement, which expires on March 1, 2010. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 