ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our revenues may decline further due to reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates. The success of our business is largely dependent upon our medical professional customers’ ability to provide diagnostic imaging care to their patients in an economically sustainable manner, either through the purchase of our imaging systems or using our lease services, or both. Our customers are directly impacted by changes (decreases and increases) in governmental and private payor reimbursements for diagnostic imaging. Although we are not directly impacted by changes in reimbursements, we make every effort to act as business partners with our physician customers, e.g., in 2010, we proactively adjusted the fair market value of our personnel and equipment leasing services due to the dramatic reimbursement declines that they were facing. Although Medicare/Medicaid reimbursement for the imaging modalities that we offer increased slightly in 2011 in the physician office setting, this occurred only after a significant decline in ultrasound reimbursements in 2009 (phased over the next four years) and a significant decline in nuclear reimbursements in 2010. Current reimbursement has not yet been restored to prior levels. Private payors often follow the lead of Medicare/Medicaid with respect to reimbursement criteria and payment levels. This causes greater pricing pressure on our lease services and influences buying decisions of our individual physician product customers. Hospital reimbursements, however, have remained higher and our newer imaging systems are better targeted to serve this expanding market. Only a small portion of our DIS business segment operates in the hospital market. Further cuts in reimbursements could significantly impact the viability of in-office imaging performed by independent physicians. The uncertainty surrounding this issue and the historical decline in reimbursements has resulted in cancellations of imaging days in our personnel and equipment lease services business and the delay of purchase and lease decisions by our existing and prospective customers in our product sales business. Additional declines in Medicare/Medicaid reimbursement for our relevant diagnostic imaging modalities are possible due to the threatened implementation of the federal sustainable growth factor (SGR). The SGR is part of the relative value unit (RVU), a formula that was enacted by Congress as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to control the cost of the Medicare program. It applies to all health services paid for by Medicare, not just diagnostic imaging. The application of the SGR has been delayed by Congress for many years and most recently, Congressional action has delayed it again until January 1, 2012. If Congress allows the SGR to go into effect in 2012, all Medicare codes could incur a reimbursement reduction of approximately 31%. Though Congressional leadership has said they will address this issue in the second quarter of 2011 with a more long-term solution and 13 Table of Contents President Obama is proposing a deferral until 2013 in his current budget proposal, there is no assurance the issue will be favorably resolved, and if not favorably resolved, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues may decline further due to changes in diagnostic imaging regulations and use of third parties by private payors to drive down imaging volumes. Nuclear medicine is a “designated health service” under the federal physician self-referral prohibition law known as the “Stark Law,” which states that a physician may not refer designated health services to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, unless a statutory exception applies. Our business model and lease agreements are structured to enable our physician customers to meet the statutory in-office ancillary services (IOAS) exception to the Stark Law allowing them to perform nuclear diagnostic imaging services on their patients in the convenience of their own office. From time-to-time, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Congress have proposed to modify the IOAS to further limit or eliminate this exception. Various lobbying organizations are pushing for, and the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) is actively discussing, limiting the availability of the IOAS exception in order to reduce federal healthcare costs. The outcome of these efforts and discussions is uncertain at this time; however, the limitation or elimination of the IOAS exception could significantly impact our DIS business segment as currently structured. Our customers who perform imaging services in their office also experience the continuing efforts by some private insurance companies to reduce healthcare expenditures by hiring radiology benefit managers (RBM) to help them manage and limit imaging. The federal government has also set aside monies in the 2009 recession recovery acts to hire RBM’s to provide image management services to Medicare/Medicaid. An RBM is an unregulated entity that performs various functions for private payors and managed care organizations depending on what they have been contracted to perform. RBM activities can include pre-authorization for imaging procedures, setting and enforcing standards approving which contracted physicians can perform the services, such as requiring even the most experienced and highly qualified cardiologists to obtain additional board certifications or interfering with the financial decision of the private practitioner by requiring them to own their own imaging system and not allowing them to lease the system. The RBM’s often do not provide written documentation of their decisions or an appeals process, leaving leasing physicians unable to challenge RBM decisions with the carrier or the state insurance department. Some efforts are being made to address certain RBM issues, for example, the New York State Attorney General recently entered into a settlement requiring an RBM (based and operating in New York State) to buy out its owners in the state who own imaging centers because it created a conflict of interest in their decisions to deny authorization for competing physicians to provide imaging services; and, New York is requiring the RBM to establish an appeals process. However, unregulated RBM activities have and could continue to adversely affect our physician customers’ ability to receive reimbursement, therefore impacting our customers’ decision to utilize our DIS leasing services. Our manufacturing operations are highly dependent upon the availability of certain third-party suppliers, thereby making us vulnerable to supply problems that could harm our business. We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply certain key components of our products. Alternative sources of production and supply may not be readily available or may take several months to scale-up and develop effective production processes. If a disruption in the availability of parts or in the operations of our suppliers were to occur, our ability to build gamma cameras could be materially affected. For this reason, we have backup plans in place that are designed to prevent delays in production. If these plans are unsuccessful, delays in the production of our gamma cameras for an extended period of time could cause a loss of revenue, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. In late 2010, the sole supplier of a key component of our gamma cameras informed us that they were going to cease production of our critical component. We currently have an inventory supply of that key component that we expect will last until mid-2011 and are working with an alternative supplier to come online as soon as 14 Table of Contents practicable. We expect to receive an ample supply of the component before our existing inventory quantity is extinguished; however, there is no guarantee that the supplier will provide the key component and if supplied, would be of the quality and yield specified. Although we believe this vendor will perform satisfactorily, we have developed and are pursuing alternative vendor solutions to the critical component shortage. If the key component is not available when we need it, it could adversely impact our production capability and therefore negatively impact our financial condition. Our lease operations are highly dependent upon the availability of certain radiopharmaceuticals, thereby making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations that could harm our business. Our personnel and equipment leasing service involves the use of radiopharmaceuticals. There were significant disruptions in the international supply of these radiopharmaceuticals in parts of 2009 and 2010, which caused us to cancel services that would have otherwise been provided and this has adversely affected our financial condition. Although the two major nuclear reactors supplying medical radiopharmaceuticals worldwide came back on-line at the end of the third quarter of 2010, there is no guarantee that they will remain in good repair. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary radiopharmaceuticals, we may be unable to lease our personnel and equipment through our in-office service operations, or the volume of our services could decline and our business may be further harmed. Shortages can also cause price increases that may not be accounted for in third party reimbursement rates, thereby causing us to lose margin or require us to pass increases on to customers. Our business is not widely diversified. Although we have a strategic initiative to expand our product line into general nuclear imaging with our ergo™ imaging system, which is primarily geared toward the hospital marketplace; historically, we have sold our products and leased our imaging systems and personnel primarily into the cardiac nuclear and ultrasound imaging private practice markets. We may not be able to leverage our assets and technology to diversify our products and services in order to generate revenue beyond the cardiac nuclear and ultrasound imaging private practice markets. If we are unable to diversify our product and service offerings, our financial condition may suffer. We compete against businesses that have greater resources and different competitive strengths. The market for cardiac nuclear imaging cameras is limited and continues to decrease. Our competition has greater resources and a more diverse product offering than we do. Some of our competitors enjoy significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, greater financial and technical resources, established relationships with healthcare professionals, larger distribution networks, and greater resources for product development, as well as more extensive marketing and sales resources. Additionally, certain medical device companies have developed alternative portable cameras that directly compete with our product offerings. If we are unable to expand our current market share, our revenues could decline. In addition, our personnel and equipment leasing services customers may switch to other service providers. Our personnel and equipment leasing services segment competes against small local, owner operated or regional businesses, some of whom have the advantage of a lower cost structure, and against imaging centers that install nuclear gamma cameras and make them available to physicians in their geographic vicinity. If these competitors are able to win significant portions of our business, our sales could decline significantly. Our financial condition could be adversely affected under such circumstances. Failure to retain qualified technologists could limit our growth and adversely affect our business. Our future growth and ability to generate profits depends, in part, upon our ability to identify, hire, and retain nuclear medicine technologists, cardiographic stress technicians, and ultrasound stenographers, particularly 15 Table of Contents those with multiple certifications in ultrasound modalities. The inability to retain such employees could diminish the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and might delay or prevent the achievement of our objectives. Hiring qualified technical personnel may be difficult due to the limited number of qualified candidates and the competition for these types of employees. Furthermore, we have historically suffered high employee turnover in regards to imaging technicians. If we are unable to consistently manage employee turnover, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our quarterly and annual financial results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate from period to period. We have historically experienced seasonality in our personnel and equipment leasing services business, and recent volatility due to the changing health care environment, the variable supply of radio-pharmaceuticals, and the downturn in the U.S. economy. While our physicians are obligated to pay us for all lease days to which they have committed, our contracts permit some flexibility in scheduling when services are to be performed. We cannot predict with certainty the degree to which seasonal circumstances such as the summer slowdown, winter holiday vacations and weather conditions may affect the results of our operations. We have also experienced fluctuations in demand of our cardiac nuclear gamma cameras due to economic conditions, capital budget availability, or other financial or business reasons. In addition, due to the way that customers in our target markets acquire our products, a large percentage of our camera orders are booked during the last month of each quarterly accounting period. As such, a delivery delay of only a few days may significantly impact our quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Moreover, the sales cycle in our Product segment for cameras is typically lengthy, which may cause us to experience significant revenue fluctuations. For these reasons, quarterly and annual sales and operating results may vary in the future. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Because of these and other factors, our operating results in one or more future reporting periods may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Our common stock is thinly traded and our options plan could affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded and any significant sales of our common stock may cause volatility in our common stock price. We also have registered shares of common stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans or from our treasury stock. Accordingly, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. Although we are not aware of any single stockholder owning more than 9.99% of our stock, stockholders holding a significant amount of our common stock might be able to significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, possibly including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state laws, regulations and other rules, and if we are unable to comply with such laws, regulations and other rules, we could face substantial penalties. We are directly, or indirectly through our physician customers, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including: the federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws and other Medicare laws, regulations, rules, manual provisions, and policies that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by us and our physician customers; the federal False Claims statutes; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended in 2009 under the HITECH Act that places direct legal obligations and higher liability on us with respect to the security and handling of personal health information; the Stark Law; the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; federal and state radioactive materials laws; state food and drug and pharmacy laws and 16 Table of Contents regulations; state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians; state scope-of-practice laws; and federal rules prohibiting the mark-up of diagnostic tests to Medicare under certain circumstances. If our physician customers are unable or unwilling to comply with these statutes, regulations, rules, and policies, utilization rates of our services and products could decline and our business could be harmed. Additionally, new government mandates will require us to provide a certain baseline of health benefits and premium contribution for our employees and their families or pay governmental penalties. Some of these costs are not tax deductible. We have opted to provide this coverage to our employee base in order to maintain retention of qualified medical technicians and other professionals rather than plan to pay penalties to the government. Either option will result in additional costs to us and could negatively impact our cash reserves. We maintain a compliance program to identify and correct any compliance issues and remain in compliance with all applicable laws, to train employees, to audit and monitor our operations, and to achieve other compliance goals. Like most companies with compliance programs, we occasionally discover compliance concerns. In such cases, we take responsive action including corrective measures when necessary. There can be no assurance that our responsive actions will insulate us from liability associated with any detected compliance concerns. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws, regulations, rules, or policies described above or the other laws or regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal or state health care programs, or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our physician customers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions which could have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business, and damage our reputation. Our manufacturing operations and executive offices are located at a single facility that may be at risk from fire, earthquakes or other disasters. Our manufacturing operations, research and development activities and executive offices are located in a single facility in Poway, California, near known fire areas and earthquake fault zones. Any future natural disaster could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage to our manufacturing equipment, research and development efforts and inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have taken precautions to insure our facilities and continuing operations, as well as provide for offsite back-up of our information systems, this may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. A disaster could significantly harm our business and results of operations. The medical device industry is litigious, which could result in the diversion of our management’s time and efforts, and require us to pay damages which may not be covered by our insurance. Our operations entail risks of claims or litigation relating to product liability, radioactive contamination, patent infringement, trade secret disclosure, warranty claims, product recalls, property damage, misdiagnosis, personal injury, and death. Any litigation or claims against us, or claims we bring against others, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business and harm our reputation. We may incur significant liability in the event of any such litigation, regardless of the merit of the action. If we are unable to obtain insurance, or if our insurance is inadequate to cover claims, our cash reserves and other assets could be negatively impacted. Additionally, costs associated with maintaining our insurance could become prohibitively expensive, and our ability to become profitable could be diminished. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. Our pending United States patent applications, which include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents, may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination or otherwise invalidated or eventually found unenforceable. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may attempt to challenge or invalidate our patents, or may be able to design alternative techniques or devices that avoid infringement of our patents, or develop products with functionalities that are comparable to ours. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, our Stockholders Rights Plan and Delaware law may prevent or delay removal of current management or a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. The rights issued pursuant to our Stockholder Rights Plan will become exercisable, subject to certain exceptions, the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 20% or more of our common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 20% or more of our common stock. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 