Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information included in this annual report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes herein, as well as in our other public filings, before making any investment decision regarding our stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In such event, the market price of our stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our industry is highly competitive, and we often compete against large, well-established competitors that have significantly greater financial resources than we have. The nuclear imaging industry is highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and market activities of other industry participants. Our primary competitors with respect to nuclear imaging systems include several large medical device manufacturers, including Philips Medical Systems, General Electric Healthcare, Siemens Medical Systems and Toshiba Medical Systems. All of these competitors offer a full line of imaging cameras for each diagnostic imaging technology, including x-ray, magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomography, ultrasound and nuclear medicine, or a combination of them. For example, there are hybrid modalities commercially available that combine the technologies of positron emission tomography, or PET, with computed tomography, or CT, as well as others that combine single photon emission computed tomography, or SPECT, with CT technology. The existing imaging systems sold by our competitors have been in use for a longer time than our products and are more widely recognized and used by physicians and hospitals for nuclear imaging. Many of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including: • significantly greater name recognition and financial, technical, service and marketing resources; • established relationships with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; technical features our current products do not possess; • multiple product lines and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives; and • greater resources for product development, sales and marketing. We are aware of certain major medical device companies that are developing solid-state cameras that may compete with our product offerings. In addition, we are aware of a privately-held company, Gamma Medica, that is currently marketing a solid-state gamma camera for breast imaging. We do not believe that this camera can be used in a cardiac application. However, we cannot assure you that Gamma Medica will not attempt to modify its existing camera for use in the cardiac segment in the future, or develop another gamma camera for cardiac applications. We are also aware of a second company, Spectrum Dynamics, that has demonstrated a proof-of-concept solid-state gamma camera that we believe it may market in the cardiac segment. Because of the size of the potential market, we anticipate that companies will dedicate significant resources to developing competing products and services. Current or future competitors may develop technologies and products, including hybrid technologies, that demonstrate better image quality, ease of use or mobility than our imaging systems. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner, receive adequate reimbursement and are less expensive and/or perform better than alternatives available for the same purpose. If we are unable to compete effectively against our existing and future competitors, our sales will decline and our business will be harmed. The competitive nature of the nuclear imaging industry has had an impact on the volume of sales and pricing of our gamma cameras, contributing to declines in product sales in 2005 as compared to 2004. We anticipate that pricing pressures will continue to impact our gamma camera product revenue and gross profit. 15 Table of Contents In providing comprehensive mobile nuclear imaging solutions, we generally compete against small businesses employing traditional vacuum tube cameras that must be transported in large vehicles and cannot be moved in and out of physician offices. We also compete against a number of physicians or companies who use Digirad cameras in relatively small mobile imaging businesses which have the advantage of a lower cost structure. In addition, we compete against a number of imaging centers that install nuclear gamma cameras and make them available to referring physicians in their geographic vicinity. We plan to pilot the leasing of ultrasound equipment and personnel. In this market, we expect to compete against many large companies who will enjoy many of the same competitive advantages outlined above, as well as small companies with established relationships in local markets who may be able to take advantage of their lower cost structures. If the market for nuclear imaging cameras continues to decrease, or if we are not successful in expanding our market share or product and service offerings, our revenues will decline and our business will be harmed. The market for nuclear imaging cameras declined in 2005 as compared to 2004. According to the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, sales of nuclear imaging equipment for 2004 in the United States were $372 annually, whereas the same sales for 2005 were $326, a decline of 13%. According to the same industry source, nuclear gamma camera sales are expected to decrease by an additional 19% in 2006. We believe this decline may be attributable to concerns about reimbursement changes, and the increasing adoption of alternative imaging modalities, such as magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomography, position emission tomography, and hybrids among these modalities. In addition, the market for single-headed cameras, our predominant camera sales market until recently, has significantly declined, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compensate for this decline by the introduction of our triple-headed camera or other alternative or more competitive products. If this decline continues and we are unable to offset its effects on our business by expanding our market share or successfully introducing alternative products and services, our sales will continue to decline and our business will be significantly harmed. Changes in laws, regulations, or coverage and reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely impact our ability to market and sell our products and services. Our physician and hospital customers rely on adequate third-party payor coverage and reimbursement to maintain their operations. Changes in laws, regulations or coverage and reimbursement policies of third-party payors with respect to purchases of our nuclear imaging cameras and the delivery of our services may adversely affect the demand for products and services, resulting in a decline in our sales and harm to our business. We cannot predict what changes may be made to such laws, regulations, or coverage and reimbursement policies, but we believe that future coverage and reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions. Additionally, we cannot be certain that under prospective payment systems, or established fee schedule payment formulas, under which healthcare providers may be reimbursed a fixed amount based on the patient’s condition or the type of procedure performed, the costs of our products and services will be justified and incorporated into the overall payment for the procedure. Effective January 1, 2007 nuclear medicine will be listed among the “designated health services” that a physician may not refer to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, unless an exception applies. These changes will make the Stark Laws applicable to DIS’ annual lease contracts. DIS’ physician customers may be able to meet the “in-office ancillary services” exception to the Stark Law if they personally supervise the individuals performing the nuclear imaging services and bill for them, and if the services are performed in the same building in which the physicians regularly practice medicine. If DIS’ customers are unable or unwilling to comply with the Stark Law, utilization rates of our services and products will decline and our business will be harmed. Recent proposed changes to the Medicare reimbursement system, if finalized as proposed, could similarly harm our business by decreasing overall reimbursements for 16 Table of Contents nuclear medicine procedures by between three and five percent. Because we charge customers based on a flat lease rate, we cannot predict whether or to what extent the proposed Medicare reimbursement reduction, if finalized, will impact our business. If reimbursement limitations increase, sales of our gamma cameras and our services could continue to suffer and we may receive pressure from our customers to terminate or otherwise materially modify the lease arrangements for our DIS services. Third-party payors continue to act to contain or reduce healthcare costs through various means, including the movement to managed care systems where healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed fee per patient. A number of third party payors in geographic locations currently served by us issued guidelines prohibiting our physician customers from obtaining reimbursement for procedures they perform unless they own or lease our cameras on a full time basis. These and other payors are also requiring physicians to be accredited by either the Intersocietal Commission for the Accreditation of Nuclear Medicine Laboratories or by the American College of Radiology, and to meet certain other privileging standards, in order to obtain reimbursement for nuclear imaging procedures. These privileging standards also exclude physicians who are not radiologists or cardiologists from obtaining reimbursements for nuclear imaging procedures. We cannot assure you that these guidelines will be changed, or that they will not be adopted by other third party payors, including Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers. These continued efforts have resulted in several instances where third-party payors have refused to reimburse patients or healthcare providers for our imaging services. Further, in October 2005, the American College of Cardiology Foundation and the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology issued new appropriateness criteria for cardiac imaging that we believe may result in a decrease of the overall number of nuclear imaging procedures being performed. Any such decrease could negatively affect our DIS business and product sales. A loss of key executives or failure to attract qualified managers, engineers and imaging technologists, or high employee attrition rates, could limit our growth and adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our key executives and technical, sales and managerial personnel and our ability to retain them. The loss of any one or more of these individuals could place a significant strain on our remaining management team and we may have difficulty replacing any of these individuals. We do not have any employment agreements with, or key person insurance on, any of our employees except with Mark Casner, our CEO and President. During 2005, we hired Gerhard F. Burbach as our President and Chief Executive Officer, Peter Sullivan as our Senior Vice President of Operations, Randy Weatherhead as our VP of Marketing and Mark Casner as DIS President. Although he remains on our Board of Directors, Mr. Burbach resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2006. Upon Mr. Burbach’s departure, Mr. Casner became CEO and President of Digirad Corporation, Mr. Sullivan President of Digirad Imaging Products, and Mr. Weatherhead Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Because of these changes, our senior management team has not worked together as a group for a significant length of time. If our new management team is unable to work together effectively to implement our strategies, manage our operations and accomplish our objectives, our business, operations and financial results could be severely impaired. Furthermore, our future growth will depend in part upon our ability to identify, hire and retain nuclear imaging technologists, certified cardiographic technicians, nurses, radiation safety officers, engineers, management, sales personnel and other highly skilled personnel. Hiring qualified management and technical personnel will be difficult due to the limited number of qualified candidates. Competition for these types of employees, particularly nuclear imaging technologists and engineers, is intense in the medical imaging field. Failure to attract, hire and retain key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have experienced an increasing rate of employee turnover, currently at an annualized rate of 51% for the combined service and product segments. If we are unable to reverse this trend, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our imaging systems and DIS services may become obsolete, and we may not be able to timely develop new products, product enhancements or services that will be accepted by the market. Our nuclear imaging systems and DIS services may become obsolete or unmarketable if other products or services utilizing new technologies or the development of hybrid imaging modalities, such as those combining PET and CT or SPECT and CT, or any other imaging modality, are introduced by our competitors or new industry standards emerge. For example, we have begun to upgrade our existing single-head DIS mobile camera fleet with our mobile triple-head cameras because we believe some of our single-head cameras have become obsolete. In addition, we cannot assure you that our triple head cameras will not also become obsolete, or that we will be able to develop or market successful new products and services or enhancements to our existing products. Nor can we assure you that our future products and enhancements will be accepted by our current or potential customers or by the third-party payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products. To be successful, we will need to enhance our products or services and to design, develop and market new products that successfully respond to competitive developments, all of which efforts may be expensive and time consuming. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate physician and patient needs; • develop new products or enhancements in a timely manner; • obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; • provide adequate training to users of our products; • price our products competitively; • obtain required licensure; • obtain appropriate coverage and receive adequate reimbursement notifications and respond to them in a commercially viable way; • comply with changing or new regulatory requirements; and • develop an effective marketing, sales and distribution network. If we do not develop and obtain required regulatory approvals or clearances for new products, necessary licensure, services or product enhancements in time to meet market demand, or if there is insufficient demand for these products, services or enhancements, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely suffer. In addition, even if our customers acquire such new products, services or product enhancements, the revenues from such sales may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with developing and offering such products, services or enhancements to customers. In addition, any announcements of new products, services or enhancements may cause customers to decline or cancel their purchasing decisions in anticipation of such products, services or enhancements. If our imaging systems and DIS services are not accepted by physicians or hospitals, we may be unable to develop a sustainable, profitable business. We expect that substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future will be derived from sales of our products in the nuclear imaging market and our leasing services offered through DIS. Our solid-state gamma cameras and DIS services represent a new approach in the nuclear imaging market. We began full commercial release of our imaging systems in March 2000 and established DIS in September 2000. Because of the recent commercial introduction of our nuclear imaging systems, we have limited product and brand recognition and our imaging systems have been used by a limited number of physicians and hospitals. Physicians and hospitals may generally be slow to adopt our products and leasing services for a number of reasons, including: • perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new technologies for nuclear imaging; • lack of availability of adequate reimbursement from health care payors for procedures using our system; 18 Table of Contents • lack of experience with our products and services; • costs associated with the purchase or lease of our products and services; • the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; • the introduction or existence of competing products and services or technologies that may be more effective, easier to use or that produce better images; • our ability to retain our current customers; • creation of competing mobile imaging businesses by physicians and others who may purchase mobile cameras that are part of our existing installed base of over 400 cameras; • the growth of imaging centers that seek and obtain referrals of patients from physicians that otherwise might have used our DIS leasing services or purchased our cameras; and • physician and hospital perceptions of our imaging systems as compared to those of competitors. Our success in the nuclear imaging market depends on whether physicians and hospitals view our imaging systems and DIS services as effective and economically beneficial and as attractive alternatives to vacuum tube imaging systems. We also believe that recommendations and support of our products and services by influential physicians and other health care providers are essential for market acceptance and adoption. We cannot assure you that physicians or hospitals will adopt or accept our imaging systems or DIS services. If physicians and hospitals do not adopt our imaging systems or DIS services, our operating results and business will be harmed. If we are unable to expand our DIS business, our growth rates could be significantly diminished and our business could be materially harmed. We plan to grow our DIS business by expanding into several new states, adding new hub locations in states in which we currently operate and increasing hub utilization by adding physician customers and routes. As we undertake this expansion, we have hired and will need to continue to hire, train and retain qualified personnel. Our progress in expanding into new geographies has been slower than anticipated, our hub utilization and customer density have decreased, and we cannot assure you that the new sales personnel we hire will be able to sell our leasing services at the rates we anticipate, or that physicians or hospitals in these new markets will accept our imaging products or services. Our expansion into additional domestic markets is subject to inherent risks, including those associated with compliance with applicable state laws regulations, including but not limited to laws and regulations concerning the use, storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, the acquisition of required licensures, compliance with state scope-of-practice laws, and difficulties in staffing and managing operations. We may find the laws of states in which we do not currently operate preclude us from operating our DIS business, or require us to change the structure in which we operate our DIS business in such states. Our inability to expand into new markets for any of these reasons could diminish our prospects for growth and profitability. Because our imaging systems and DIS services are not widely diversified, a decrease in sales of our products and leasing services could seriously harm our business. Our current product and service offerings consist primarily of our line of gamma cameras, including our Cardius-1, Cardius-2, Cardius-3, 2020tc Imager and SPECTpak PLUS camera systems, each of which is designed for use in the nuclear imaging market segment and all of which utilize the same solid-state technology. In addition, we offer a mobile imaging leasing service through DIS, which includes an imaging system, certified personnel, required licensure and other support for nuclear imaging procedures. As such, our line of products and services is not as diversified as those of some of our competitors. In 2005, we experienced a major decline in our product sales, and we did not sustain the growth rates in our DIS leasing business we achieved in 2004. If such declines in the sales of our products or leasing services were to continue, our business would be seriously 19 Table of Contents harmed, and it would likely be difficult for us to recover because we do not have the breadth of products or services that would enable us to sustain our business while seeking to develop new types of products or services or other markets for our existing products and services. In addition, because our technical know-how and intellectual property have limited applications, we may be unable to leverage our technical know-how and intellectual property to diversify our products and services or to develop other products or sources of revenue outside of the nuclear imaging market. If we experience problems with the technologies used in our imaging systems or if delivery of our DIS services is delayed, public perception of our products and service offerings could be harmed and we may lose customers and revenue. Our gamma cameras have only recently been introduced into the marketplace and most of our cameras currently in use are less than four years old. We have experienced some reliability issues with a prior version of our detector heads. In July 2003, we began selling most of our gamma cameras with a new version of our detector heads which has shown increased reliability, although other reliability issues remain, including with our Cardius-3 cameras. In addition, although we have embarked on a program to upgrade our fleet over the next three years, as the period of use of our cameras increases, other significant defects may occur. If significant defects do arise with our gamma cameras, our reputation among physicians and hospitals could be damaged and our business would be harmed. Additionally, physicians rely on our DIS services to provide nuclear imaging procedures to their patients on the dates and at the times they have leased. Many factors could prevent us from delivering our DIS services on a timely basis, including equipment failures, unanticipated problems with our new mobile Cardius-3 camera, weather and the availability of staffing, transportation and necessary supplies. If we are unable to provide physicians or hospitals our DIS services in a timely and effective manner, our reputation among physicians and hospitals could be damaged and our business would be harmed. The performance and reliability of our products and services are critical to our reputation and to our ability to achieve market acceptance of those products and services. Widespread or other failures of our cameras and other products consistently to meet the expectations of purchasers or customers that use our DIS services could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to provide our DIS services, our relations with current customers and our business operations. Such failures could also reduce the attractiveness of our products and services to potential customers. Equipment failures could result from any number of causes, including equipment aging, ordinary wear and tear due to regular transportation and relocation, failure to perform routine maintenance and latent hardware or software defects of which we are unaware. Such failures, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our business even if we correct the underlying problems. We are subject to the financial risks associated with providing services through our DIS business. There are numerous risks associated with any leasing arrangement, including the possibility that physicians may fail to make the required payments under the terms and provisions of their lease commitments. Our DIS business is also affected by the ability of physicians to pay us, which in turn may be affected by general economic and business conditions and the availability of reimbursement for the physicians. In addition, typically, a small number of our DIS customers decide to purchase their own cameras, made by us or by one of our competitors, rather than continue to use our DIS leasing service. If purchases by DIS customers of cameras made by our competitors were to increase beyond the levels we have historically experienced, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations are highly dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply certain of the key components of our products. While many of the components used in our products are available from multiple sources, we obtain 20 Table of Contents some components from single sources, and alternative sources for them may not be readily available. For example, key components of the detector heads and the processing and control software utilized in our gamma cameras are manufactured or supplied by a single source. If we were unable to obtain these components, our ability to build gamma cameras could be materially affected. To be successful, our contract manufacturers and suppliers must provide us with the components of our systems in requisite quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed-upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Segami Corporation, or Segami, has developed image processing software for our camera under a non-exclusive license agreement. In the event that Segami attempts to terminate the license agreement, refuses to extend the term of the license or seeks to impose unreasonable pricing or terms, we would have to find an alternative software system to use in our gamma camera that may not be readily available. Our reliance on these outside suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business, including: • suppliers may make errors in manufacturing components that could adversely affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment of our products; • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our components; • once we identify alternative suppliers, we could experience significant delays in production due to the need to evaluate and test the products delivered by alternative suppliers and to obtain regulatory qualification for them; • we are not a major customer of many of our suppliers, and these suppliers may therefore give other customers’ needs higher priority than ours; • we use some suppliers that are small, privately-held companies, and these suppliers could encounter financial or other difficulties that could cause them to modify or discontinue their operations at any time; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products or services. These events could harm our business and operating results. We have limited marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. We began commercial production and shipped our first imaging products in 2000, and therefore have limited experience in marketing, selling and distributing our products and services. Additionally, while we have a direct sales team focused on domestic marketing, sales and distribution, we also use one independent distributor in the United States and an independent, international sales distributor to market, sell and distribute our products and services. As a result, we are dependent in part upon the marketing, sales and distribution efforts of our third-party distributors. Our domestic third-party distributor is generally permitted to market, sell and distribute competing imaging products that are used or refurbished and meet specified age requirements. Our international distributor is prohibited from promoting or distributing any other gamma camera product, but not prohibited from offering competing services. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part on our success in maintaining and expanding our marketing, sales and distribution channels, which will likely be an expensive and time-consuming process. We 21 Table of Contents are highly dependent upon the efforts of our sales force and third-party distributors to increase our revenue. We face intense competition for qualified sales employees and may be unable to hire, train, manage and retain such personnel, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain and expand our marketing, sales and distribution network, which would negatively affect our ability to compete effectively as a distributor of nuclear imaging devices. Additionally, even if we are able to expand our sales force and enter into agreements with additional third-party distributors on commercially reasonable terms, they may not commit the necessary resources effectively to market, sell and distribute our products and services domestically and internationally. If we are unable to maintain and expand our direct and third-party marketing, sales and distribution networks, we may be unable to sell enough of our products and imaging services for our business to be profitable and our financial condition and results of operations will likely suffer accordingly. We are exposed to risks relating to product liability, product recalls, property damage and personal injury and death for which insurance coverage is expensive, limited and potentially inadequate, and our business may be negatively affected by insufficiently insured claims and increased insurance costs. Our operations entail risks relating to claims or litigation relating to product liability, warranty, product recalls, property damage, misdiagnosis, personal injury and death. We may incur significant liability in the event of any such litigation, regardless of the merit of the action. We currently maintain insurance that we believe is adequate with respect to the nature of the risks insured against, including product liability insurance, professional liability insurance, automobile insurance, property insurance, workers compensation insurance and general liability insurance. In many cases such insurance is expensive and difficult to obtain, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain our current insurance or that we will be able to obtain or maintain comparable or additional insurance in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain insurance, or if our insurance is inadequate to cover claims, our cash reserves and other assets could be jeopardized. Additionally, costs associated with maintaining our insurance, including workers compensation insurance, could become prohibitively expensive, and our ability to become profitable could be diminished. If we choose to acquire new or complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete those acquisitions or to successfully integrate them in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product and service offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. We may in the future choose to pursue collaborations or acquisitions instead of developing businesses, products or technologies ourselves. We cannot assure you, however, that we would be able to successfully complete any acquisition we choose to pursue, or that we would be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology into our company in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Furthermore, there is no certainty that we would be able to attract, hire or retain key employees associated with any acquired businesses, products or technologies. Integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and divert the attention and resources of our management. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will likely suffer. Additionally, any amortization of assets or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could negatively impact our operating results. Our manufacturing operations and executive offices are located at a single facility that may be at risk from fire, earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters or crises. Our manufacturing operations and executive offices are located at a single facility in Poway, California, near known fire areas and earthquake fault zones. This facility is located a short distance from the wildfires that destroyed many homes and businesses in San Diego County, California in 2003. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance and health and safety protocols. However, any future natural 22 Table of Contents disaster, such as a fire or an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage to or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could significantly harm our business and results of operations. The insurance we maintain against fires and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Additionally, electrical power is vital to our operations and we rely on a continuous power supply to conduct our business. California has experienced significant electrical power shortages and price volatility in recent years, and such shortages and price volatility may occur in the future. In the event of an acute power shortage, the California system operator has on some occasions implemented, and may in the future implement, rolling blackouts throughout California. If our energy costs substantially increase or blackouts interrupt our power supply frequently or for more than a few days, we may have to reduce or temporarily discontinue our normal operations. In addition, the cost of our research and development efforts may increase because of the disruption to our operations. Any such reduction or disruption of our operations at our facilities could harm our business. Risks Related to Government Regulation We must be licensed to handle and use hazardous materials and may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. We use hazardous and radioactive materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes, as well as in the provision of our imaging services. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and radioactive materials and waste products, or hazardous materials. We are currently licensed to handle such hazardous materials in all states in which we operate, but there can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain those licenses in the future. In addition, we must become licensed to handle hazardous materials in all states into which we plan to expand. Obtaining and maintaining those additional hazardous materials licenses is an expensive and time consuming process. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the requisite licenses, we will not be able to expand into a state and our ability to grow and become profitable will be reduced. Although we believe that our procedures for use, handling, storing and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines and the liability and associated legal costs could exceed our resources. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that the cost of complying with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state laws, regulations, and other rules, and, if we are unable to comply with such laws, regulations and other rules, we could face substantial penalties. We are directly, or indirectly through our clients, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include the federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws; other Medicare laws, regulations, rules, manual provisions, and policies that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by us and our DIS customers; the federal False Claims Statutes; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA; the federal False Statements Statute; the Stark Law; the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; federal and state radioactive materials laws; state food and drug and pharmacy laws and regulations; state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and 23 Table of Contents fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians,; state scope-of-practice laws that either require specific licenses or certifications for our personnel or that require direct supervision of our personnel by the site physician to perform certain tasks in the absence of such licensures or certifications; federal laws, regulations, rules and policies that permit physicians to bill and receive payment for certain diagnostic tests under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule only if certain conditions are satisfied, including the requirement that the physician personally perform, or adequately supervise the performance of, the test using equipment they own or lease, and that prohibit physicians from marking up the cost of tests they “purchase,” rather than perform or supervise, for Medicare patients; and state law equivalents to the foregoing. We implemented a compliance program in 2002 to help assure that we identify any compliance issues, correct any compliance issues, and remain in compliance with the above and other applicable laws, to provide training of employees, to conduct auditing and monitoring of the Company’s operations, to provide for a compliance hotline, and to achieve other compliance goals. Like most companies with active and effective compliance programs, we occasionally discover compliance concerns. In such cases, and in accordance with our compliance program, we take responsive action, including, when necessary, corrective measures. There can be no assurance that the Company’s responsive actions will insulate us from liability associated with any such detected compliance concerns. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws, regulations, rules or policies described above or the other governmental laws or regulations to which we or our customers are subject, or if the interpretation of the foregoing changes, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. In addition, if we are required to obtain permits or licensure under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products. In the United States, federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact new legislation establishing significant changes in the healthcare system. Changes in the Medicare Modernization Act and other legislation reduced payment amounts for some of the drugs used in conjunction with our imaging procedures, although the physician fee schedule payment rates applicable to nuclear cardiology increased slightly in each of 2003, 2004 and 2005, but may decrease from three to five percent in 2006. Because the new reimbursement system is based on the prices of radiopharmaceuticals and other drugs reported to CMS by manufacturers on a quarterly basis, we cannot predict the amount of future reimbursement, however downward changes to Medicare reimbursement rates may adversely impact reimbursement to customers or potential customers that use or could use our cameras and services, and may therefore affect us. We cannot predict the full impact that such new legislation will have nor whether new federal legislation will be enacted in the future; however downward changes to Medicare reimbursement rates may adversely impact reimbursement to customers or potential customers that use or could use our cameras and services. If these reimbursement limitations increase, sales of our gamma cameras would suffer and we may receive pressure from our customers to terminate or otherwise modify the lease arrangements for our DIS services. Under such circumstances, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Effective January 1, 2007 nuclear medicine will be listed among the “designated health services” that a physician may not refer to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, unless an exception applies. These 24 Table of Contents changes will make the Stark Laws applicable to DIS’ annual lease contracts. DIS’ physician customers may be able to meet the “in-office ancillary services” exception to the Stark Law if they personally supervise the individuals performing the nuclear imaging services and bill for them, and if the services are performed in the same building in which the physicians regularly practice medicine. If DIS’ customers are unable or unwilling to comply with the Stark Law, utilization rates of our services and products will decline and our business will be harmed. The potential for adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. In addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products and services due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives. Our results of operations and our business could therefore be adversely affected by future healthcare reforms. Regulatory changes could have a negative impact on camera sales to and leases with hospitals desiring to use our cameras and services in their outpatient facilities. In order for hospitals to receive certain payments for their outpatient facilities as hospital outpatient services, including services that utilize our products, these services must be furnished in a “provider-based” organization or facility or be covered services furnished “under arrangement” with the hospital. Failure to meet these requirements may result in reduced payments to the hospitals for their services. The Medicare program has published and revised rules establishing criteria for classifying a facility as “provider-based” or a service as furnished “under arrangement.” These rules require an analysis of the facts and circumstances surrounding the delivery by a hospital of a particular service, and hospitals that use our products or DIS services in their outpatient facilities will need to determine if they meet the applicable “provider-based” or “under arrangement” requirements. Hospitals that cannot obtain sufficient payments for these services may not purchase a camera from us or enter into arrangements with us for provision of services. If we fail to comply with various licensure or certification laws, regulations or standards, we may be subject to civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, which would adversely affect our operations. All of the states in which we operate require that the imaging technicians that operate our cameras be licensed or certified and such licensing and certification requirements are subject to change. Obtaining such licenses may take significant time as we expand into additional states or if the applicable requirements change. Any lapse in the licensure or certification of our technicians could increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, our lease services business involves administering and furnishing radiopharmaceuticals and pharmacological stress agents, which are regulated as drugs by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and state pharmacy boards. We have initiated a process to apply for state drug distribution licensure and permits. If a state regulatory authority were to determine that we have operated our business without required permits or licensure, we could be subject to civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, including the curtailing or halting of our business. In addition, an inability to obtain licenses or permits in any of the states in which we currently conduct business, or in states where we plan to expand, would require us to modify the types of business models we can utilize in the affected jurisdictions. In either case, we would incur substantial expense and could encounter substantial operational burdens. In the healthcare industry, various types of organizations are accredited to facilitate meeting certain Medicare certification requirements, expedite third-party payment and fulfill state licensure requirements. Some managed care providers prefer to contract with accredited organizations. We are aware of a number of third party payors in geographies in which we do business that are requiring physicians to obtain certain accreditations or certifications in order to obtain reimbursement for imaging procedures, and to meet specified privileging standards. In our DIS business, although the majority of our customers continue to be cardiologists, an increasing number of new customers are non-cardiologists who would not currently meet the certifications required by payors in certain geographies. We have obtained certification from the Intersocietal Commission for the 25 Table of Contents Accreditation of Nuclear Medicine Laboratories for thirteen of our hub locations, and are working towards obtaining accreditation in nine others. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining those additional certifications, or that obtaining them will satisfy the requirements of these payors. If it becomes necessary for us or our customers to obtain any additional accreditations or certifications in the future in order to satisfy the requirements of third-party payors or regulatory agencies, there can be no assurances that we or they will be able to obtain or continuously maintain this accreditation, and our business could be adversely affected. Our products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. We are subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could cause adverse health consequences. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving one of our products could harm the reputation of the product and our company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results. If we fail to obtain, or are significantly delayed in obtaining, FDA or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for future products or product enhancements, or if we or our third party contractors fail to comply with FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or the quality regulations of foreign governments, our ability to market and distribute our products will suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. In the U.S., the FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, promotion and distribution. Our failure to comply with those regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including Warning Letters, injunctions, suspensions or the loss of regulatory clearances or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures, or injunctions. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, unless exempt, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed predicate device. The PMA approval process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process, and must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. Because we cannot assure you that any new products we develop, or any product enhancements, will be subject to the generally shorter 510(k) clearance process, significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur. While we have not been required to obtain PMA approval for any of our products, there is no assurance that the FDA will not require a new product or product enhancement to go through the more lengthy, burdensome, and expensive PMA approval process. Further, pursuant to FDA regulations, we can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which covers the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our devices. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facility and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by federal, state and foreign agencies, including the FDA. Our failure or our third-party 26 Table of Contents manufacturers’ failure to pass a Quality System Regulation inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays, and a failure to take adequate corrective action could result in, among other things, Warning Letter(s), withdrawal of our medical device clearances, seizure or recall of our devices, or other civil or criminal enforcement actions. Foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent and, to the extent we now or in the future market and sell our products in foreign countries, we may be subject to rigorous regulation by those foreign governmental authorities. In such circumstances, we would rely significantly on our foreign independent distributors to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, approval of a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that no clearances or approvals are necessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Further, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in delays, fines, costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA, any of which would harm our business. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing Our quarterly and annual financial results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period because our business prospects are uncertain and our DIS leasing services business is seasonal. Our revenue and results of operations at any given time will be primarily based on the following factors, many of which we cannot control: • physician, healthcare provider and patient acceptance of our products and services; • demand for and pricing of our products and services; • levels of third-party payor reimbursement for our products and services; • accreditation and credentialing requirements imposed by third-party payors on physicians and providers of mobile imaging services; • reimbursement prohibitions imposed by third party payors on providers of mobile imaging services; • customer profiles and lengthening sales cycles associated with such profiles; • success and timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors; • camera purchases by DIS customers; • our ability to establish and maintain a productive manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution force; • the ability of our suppliers to timely provide us with an adequate supply of necessary components; 27 Table of Contents • timing and magnitude of our expenditures; • our ability to reduce our expenses quickly enough to respond to any declines in revenue; • regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • our addition or termination of research programs or funding support; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products and services; and • changes in our ability to obtain FDA approval or clearance for our products. Furthermore, we have experienced seasonality in the leasing services offered by DIS. While our physicians are obligated to pay us for all lease days to which they have committed, our contracts permit some flexibility in scheduling when services are to be performed. This accounts for some of the seasonality of our DIS revenues. For example, our daily services have typically declined from our second fiscal quarter to our third fiscal quarter due to summer holidays and vacation schedules. We have also experienced declining daily services in December due to holidays and in our first quarter due to weather conditions in certain parts of the United States. We cannot predict with certainty the degree to which seasonal circumstances such as the summer slowdown, winter holiday variations and weather conditions may make our revenue unpredictable or lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results in the future. In addition, due to the way that customers in our target markets acquire our products, a large percentage of our orders of gamma cameras is booked during the last month of each quarterly accounting period. As such, a delivery delay of only a few days may significantly impact our quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Further, our product sales declined significantly in 2005 as compared to 2004. In addition, the market for single-headed cameras, our predominant market, experienced a sizable decline in 2005. While our product sales in the fourth quarter of 2005 increased as compared to the second and third quarters, our quarterly and annual performance in 2005 has not yet returned to levels we achieved in 2004. For these reasons, we believe that quarterly and annual sales and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. We cannot assure you that our sales will increase or be sustained in future periods. Accordingly, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant, unanticipated quarterly and annual losses. Because of these and other factors, our operating results in one or more future reporting period may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We have incurred significant and recurring operating losses since our inception in 1985 and we expect to incur such losses and increased operating expenses in the near term. We have incurred significant cumulative net losses since our inception in November 1985 and expect to incur such losses and increased operating expenses in the near term as we, among other things: • expand our manufacturing operations and DIS business; • increase marketing, sales and distribution of our current products; and • conduct research and development to develop next-generation products and to enhance our existing products. As a result of these activities, we may not be able to become profitable or, if we do, maintain profitability. If our revenue grows more slowly than anticipated, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our ability to achieve our development and expansion goals would be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents The sales cycle for our gamma cameras is typically lengthy, which may result in significant fluctuations in our revenue. Our sales efforts for our gamma cameras are dependent on the capital expenditures budgets of the physicians and hospitals to which we market. Often physicians and hospitals require a significant amount of lead time to plan for a major acquisition such as the purchase of our imaging systems. We may spend substantial time, effort and expense long before we actually consummate an order of our cameras and with no assurance that we will ultimately be successful in achieving any such orders. As a result, we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues. Furthermore, evaluating and predicting our future sales and operating performance is difficult and may not be as accurate as it could be if we had shorter sales cycles. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the effects of competing technological and market developments; • the revenue generated by sales of our products and services; • the costs associated with expanding our manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution efforts; • the rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; • the manner in which we develop and introduce new products, product enhancements and services; • the costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearance of our products and products in development; • the costs of obtaining and maintaining radioactive materials licenses and radiation safety procedures; • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; and • the costs associated with our expansion, if any. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which include 29 Table of Contents claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents, may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination or otherwise invalidated or eventually found unenforceable. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may attempt to challenge or invalidate our patents, or may be able to design alternative techniques or devices that avoid infringement of our patents, or develop products with functionalities that are comparable to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of our management’s time and efforts, and require us to pay damages. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Our competitors may assert that our products, their components or the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. In addition, they may claim that their patents have priority over ours because their patents were filed or invented earlier. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more components of our products may be infringing of which we are unaware. As the number of participants in our industry increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us also increases. Any litigation or claims against us, or claims we bring against others, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be inadvertently infringing, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our system to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of our products, which could severely harm our business. We may be subject to lawsuits and actions brought by our employees. We may from time to time be subject to employment litigation or administrative actions resulting from claims against us by current or former employees including claims for wrongful termination, wage and hour law violations, or other alleged wrongful conduct. Any employment litigation could significantly divert our management’s time and attention and could result in monetary or other damages that could negatively impact our financial results. 30 Table of Contents We rely significantly on a license agreement with Segami Corporation for imaging processing software for our digital gamma camera, and the loss of the license could result in delivery delays, loss of customers and loss of revenue. Segami Corporation, or Segami, has developed image processing software for our camera under a non-exclusive license agreement. While we have amended our agreement with Segami and now own the image acquisition software, we remain dependent on Segami for the processing software. In the event that Segami attempts to terminate the license agreement, refuses to extend the term of the license or seeks to impose unreasonable pricing or terms, we would have to find an alternative software system to use in our gamma camera. To our knowledge, there are only a limited number of companies that would be able to develop and implement a software system similar to what we use in our gamma camera. As a result, in the event that we were unable to continue to use the software under the license from Segami, we could have delays in the production of our gamma camera as we attempted to find a substitute software provider. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that alternative software providers would be able to meet our requirements or that their software would be available to us at favorable prices, if at all. To the extent we were unable to find an alternative source for the software, we may have to develop our own software system. We cannot guarantee that we could internally develop such a software system or that such efforts would not divert resources away from the development of other features of our camera. As a result, locating an alternative software system or developing our own software system could interrupt the manufacture and delivery of our products for an extended period of time and may cause the loss of customers and revenue. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, or our employees, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hinder or preclude our ability to commercialize our products, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. The market price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • volume and timing of orders for our products and services; • declining sales of nuclear imaging products and other adverse conditions affecting our target markets; • the results of delays in introduction of new products, product enhancements, services or technologies by us or our competitors; • period-to-period variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • conditions or trends in the medical device industry and the imaging service industry; • disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights, product liability claims or other litigation; • our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance for, and market, new and enhanced products on a timely basis, or changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; 31 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors; • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. A small number of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may sell in the public market. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sale may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of our shares of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of certain of our warrants, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans. Accordingly, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws and the lock-up agreements described above. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Our common stock has been publicly traded for a short time and an active trading market may not be sustained. Although we are currently listed for trading on the Nasdaq National Market, an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. An inactive market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. Furthermore, an inactive market may impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other businesses, products and technologies by using our shares as consideration. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, our Stockholders Rights Plan and Delaware law may prevent or delay removal of current management or a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders unless they hold not less than 20% of the total number of votes to be cast at such a meeting; • permitting the issuance of additional shares of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon terms and conditions, and with the rights, preferences and privileges as a board of directors may determine; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our restated certificate of incorporation or restated bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • requiring advance notice for raising matters of business or making nominations at stockholders’ meetings. The rights issued pursuant to our Stockholder Rights Plan will become exercisable, subject to certain exceptions, the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 15% or more of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. If our officers, directors and principal stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As a result of their actions or inactions our stock price may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 