ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our revenues may decline if we are unable to offset the financial risks associated with providing imaging services through our DIS business. The success of our DIS business is largely dependent on our customers’ ability to incorporate our imaging services into a financially viable business. They are faced with the downward trend in Medicare reimbursement rates, as well as the continuing efforts by some third party payors to reduce health care expenditures by requiring physicians to obtain specific accreditations or certifications, and their efforts to restrict the use of mobile or leased cameras. Depending on their volume of patients, physicians may find it economical to purchase a camera and either cancel or limit their use of our DIS imaging services. If we are unable to offset the effects of such risks, our financial condition will be harmed. Our customers may also switch to another service provider. We compete against small local or regional businesses, some of which have the advantage of a lower cost structure, and against imaging centers that install nuclear gamma cameras and make them available to physicians in their geographic vicinity. If these competitors are able to win significant portions of our business, our sales will decline. Our Product business competes against businesses that have different competitive strengths than we have. The market for nuclear imaging cameras has contracted over several years and we expect it to remain flat in the immediate future, thereby making competition a greater challenge. Our competition has had a negative impact on our sales prices and volume. Some of our competitors enjoy significant advantages over us, including: greater name recognition; greater financial, technical, service resources; established relationships with healthcare professionals; established distribution networks; and greater resources for product development as well as sales and marketing. Additionally, certain medical device companies are developing alternative mobile cameras that directly compete with our product offerings. If we are unable to expand our current market share, our revenues are likely to decline. Our quarterly and annual financial results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate from period to period. We have experienced seasonality in the leasing services offered by DIS. While our physicians are obligated to pay us for all lease days to which they have committed, our contracts permit some flexibility in scheduling when services are to be performed. We cannot predict with certainty the degree to which seasonal circumstances such as the summer slowdown, winter holiday variations and weather conditions will affect the results of our operations. In addition, due to the way that customers in our target markets acquire our products, a large percentage of our camera orders are booked during the last month of each quarterly accounting period. As such, a delivery delay of only a few days may significantly impact our quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Moreover, the sales cycle for our cameras is typically lengthy, which may cause us to experience significant revenue fluctuations. For these reasons, quarterly and annual sales and operating results may vary in the future. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied 11 upon as indicators of future performance. Because of these and other factors, our operating results in one or more future reporting periods may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Because our DIS services and imaging systems are not widely diversified, obsolescence of our current products and services would seriously harm our business. We sell products and services primarily in the nuclear imaging market, and began offering DIS services in the ultrasound imaging market in 2007. Our nuclear imaging systems and DIS services may become obsolete or unmarketable if new technologies are introduced to the market or if new industry standards emerge. Because we are limited in our technical know-how and intellectual property, we may not be able to leverage our assets to diversify our products and services in order to generate revenue beyond the nuclear and ultrasound imaging markets in a timely manner. If we are unable to diversify our product and service offerings, our financial condition may suffer. Acquisitions could adversely affect our operations and create unanticipated liabilities and other harmful consequences. We plan to expand our business through certain strategic acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we would be able to successfully complete any acquisition or that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology into our company in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Any future transactions may also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt, and additional recurring expenses such as the amortization of intangible assets. Acquisitions involve risks, including: the difficulty of integrating the technology, operations and personnel of our acquired companies into our business; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; additional operating losses and expenses of the acquired businesses and the impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits and incur unanticipated liabilities, which could harm our business in general. Failure to attract qualified managers, engineers and imaging technologists, or high employee attrition rates, could limit our growth and adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our key executives and technical, sales and managerial personnel and our ability to retain them. The inability to retain such employees could place a significant strain on our business, which would continue if we experience difficulties in replacing any of them. Hiring qualified management and technical personnel will be difficult due to the limited number of qualified candidates and the intense competition for these types of employees. Furthermore, we have historically suffered high employee turnover. Our future growth and ability to generate profits will depend in part upon our ability to identify, hire, and retain nuclear medicine technologists, certified cardiographic technicians, ultrasound technologists, and sales personnel. If we are unable to reduce employee turnover, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our operations are highly dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply certain of the key components of our products. Alternative sources of production and supply may not be readily available. For example, key components of the detector heads and the processing and control software utilized in our gamma cameras are manufactured or supplied by a single source. We have also outsourced production of significant portions of our end product to a single contract manufacturer. If a disruption in the availability of parts, or in the operations of these suppliers were to occur, our ability to build gamma cameras could be materially affected. Delays in the production of our gamma cameras for an extended period of time could cause the loss of customers and revenue, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. 12 Our manufacturing operations and executive offices are located at a single facility that may be at risk from fire, earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters. Our manufacturing operations and executive offices are located at a single facility in Poway, California, near known fire areas and earthquake fault zones. Any future natural disaster could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage to our manufacturing equipment and inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have taken precautions to insure our facilities and continuing operations, this may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. A disaster could significantly harm our business and results of operations. A large amount of our common stock is held by a small number of shareholders and is thinly traded. A small number of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may sell in the public market. In addition, our common stock is thinly traded and any significant sales of our common stock may cause volatility in our common stock price. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sale may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of our shares of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of certain of our warrants, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans. Accordingly, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws and the lock-up agreements described above. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As a result of their actions or inactions our stock price may decline. We have incurred significant and recurring operating losses since our inception in 1985 and we may incur such losses and increased operating expenses in the near term. We have incurred significant cumulative net losses since our inception in November 1985 and may incur such losses and increased operating expenses in the near term as we, among other things, expand our DIS business, increase marketing, sales and distribution of our current products, and conduct research and development to develop next-generation products and to enhance our existing products. As a result of these activities, we may not be able to maintain profitability. If our revenue grows more slowly than anticipated, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our ability to achieve our development and expansion goals would be adversely affected. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state laws, regulations, and other rules, and, if we are unable to-comply with such laws, regulations and other rules, we could face substantial penalties. We are directly, or indirectly through our clients, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including the federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws; other Medicare laws, regulations, rules, manual provisions, and policies that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by us and our DIS customers; the federal False Claims statutes; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA; the Stark Law; the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; federal and state radioactive materials laws; state food and drug 13 and pharmacy laws and regulations; state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians; state scope-of-practice laws that require either specific licenses or certifications for our personnel or their direct supervision by the site physician to perform certain tasks in the absence of such licensures or certifications; federal laws, regulations, rules and policies that permit physicians to bill and receive payment for certain diagnostic tests under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule only if certain conditions are satisfied, including the requirement that the physician either personally perform, or adequately supervise, the performance of the tests using equipment they own or lease, and that prohibit physicians from marking up the cost of tests they “purchase,” rather than perform or supervise, for Medicare patients; and state law equivalents to any of the foregoing federal laws. We maintain a compliance program to help identify and correct any compliance issues and remain in compliance with all applicable laws to train employees, to audit and monitor the Company’s operations, to provide for a compliance hotline, and to achieve other compliance goals. Like most companies with compliance programs, we occasionally discover compliance concerns. In such cases, we take responsive action, including, when necessary, corrective measures. There can be no assurance that the Company’s responsive actions will insulate us from liability associated with any detected compliance concerns. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws, regulations, rules or policies described above or the other laws or regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal or state health care programs, or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could have a negative impact on us. If we are excluded from federal or state health care programs, our customers who participate in those programs could not do business with us. In addition, if we are required to obtain permits or licensure that we do not possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased because many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to many interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business, and damage our reputation. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products. New federal and state legislations periodically establish significant changes in the healthcare system. For example, downward trends in Medicare reimbursements available to our customers have adversely affected our business. If reimbursement rates continue to decrease, or if other legislations with harmful effects are enacted, our product sales could suffer and our DIS customers may modify or terminate their lease arrangements. Our financial condition would be adversely affected under such circumstances. Nuclear medicine is a “designated health service” under the federal anti-self-referral laws known as the Stark Law that a physician may not refer to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, unless an exception applies. DIS’ physician customers may be able to meet the “in-office ancillary services” exception to the Stark Law if they meet the definition of a “Group Practice” under Stark, personally supervise the individuals performing the nuclear imaging services and bill for them, and if the services are performed in the same building in which the physicians regularly practice medicine. In July 2007, CMS proposed to modify the Stark regulations in a manner that may restrict physicians in some business arrangements from utilizing the in-office ancillary services exception to Stark. CMS could at any time propose or implement other Stark modifications to limit use of the in-office ancillary services exception. If DIS’ customers are unable or unwilling to comply with the Stark Law, utilization rates of our services and products will decline and our business will be harmed. The potential for adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches and adversely affect the results of operations. 14 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, our Stockholders Rights Plan and Delaware law may prevent or delay removal of current management or a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. The rights issued pursuant to our Stockholder Rights Plan will become exercisable, subject to certain exceptions, the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 15% or more of our common stock. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. The medical device industry is characterized by litigation and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of our management’s time and efforts, and require us to pay damages which may not be covered by our insurance. Our operations entail risks relating to claims or litigation relating to product liability, radioactive contamination, patent infringement, trade secret disclosure, warranty claims, product recalls, property damage, misdiagnosis, personal injury and death. Any litigation or claims against us, or claims we bring against others, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business and harm our reputation. We may incur significant liability in the event of any such litigation, regardless of the merit of the action. If we are unable to obtain insurance, or if our insurance is inadequate to cover claims, our cash reserves and other assets could be jeopardized. Additionally, costs associated with maintaining our insurance could become prohibitively expensive, and our ability to become profitable could be diminished. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. Our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents, may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination or otherwise invalidated or eventually found unenforceable. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may attempt to challenge or invalidate our patents, or may be able to design alternative techniques or devices that avoid infringement of our patents, or develop products with functionalities that are comparable to ours. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 15 