ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to changing health care regulatory rules which could adversely affect us. Various potential changes to health care regulatory rules could require us to change our operations significantly and could harm us financially. Nuclear medicine is a “designated health service” under the federal physician self-referral prohibition law known as the Stark Law, which states that a physician may not refer designated health services to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, unless an exception applies. 10 Table of Contents DIS’ physician customers may be able to meet the “in-office ancillary services” exception to the Stark Law if they meet the definition of a “Group Practice” under Stark, appropriately supervise the individuals performing the nuclear imaging services and bill for them, and if the services are performed in the same building in which the physicians regularly practice medicine. In July 2007, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) proposed to modify the Stark regulations in a manner that may restrict physicians in some business arrangements from utilizing the in-office ancillary services exception to Stark. CMS could at any time propose or implement other Stark modifications to limit use of the in-office ancillary services exception. If DIS’ customers are unable or unwilling to comply with the Stark Law, utilization rates of our services and products will decline and our business will be harmed. The potential adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches and adversely affect the results of operations. CMS adopted a new rule effective January 1, 2009 requiring all mobile entities providing diagnostic tests to enroll in the Medicare program as an independent diagnostic testing facility (IDTF) for all diagnostic tests they perform, and to bill Medicare directly for such tests. In response to a comment on the regulations, CMS implied that entities leasing diagnostic equipment and personnel to physician offices must enroll in Medicare and bill Medicare directly for all tests performed. Subsequent guidance from CMS clarified that entities leasing diagnostic equipment and personnel do not need to enroll in the Medicare program as an IDTF. If CMS were to promulgate new regulations requiring Digirad to enroll in Medicare and bill Medicare directly for all diagnostic test performed using our equipment and DIS personnel, or if a local CMS contractor were to interpret the new regulations to require Digirad to enroll as an IDTF and bill Medicare directly for all tests performed, we would need to change our operations significantly and our financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, CMS has recently adopted modifications to the anti-markup rule for diagnostic tests, which limits what physicians can charge Medicare for diagnostic tests in certain circumstances. CMS could at any time propose or implement further changes to the Medicare anti-markup rule for diagnostic tests which could limit what our DIS customers could charge the Medicare program for diagnostic tests. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by such changes. Our revenues may decline due to reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates, competitor activity, or increased third party payor certification requirements. New federal and state legislations periodically establish significant changes in the healthcare system. The success of our DIS business is largely dependent on our customers’ ability to build a financially viable imaging business utilizing leased DIS personnel and equipment. Our customers’ have been faced with the downward trend in Medicare reimbursement rates, as well as the continuing efforts by some third party payors to reduce health care expenditures by requiring physicians to obtain specific accreditations or certifications, and their efforts to restrict the use of mobile or leased cameras. If such trends continue, they may find it economical to purchase a camera and either cancel or limit their use of our personnel and equipment. In addition, our customers may switch to another service provider. We compete against small local or regional businesses, some of which have the advantage of a lower cost structure, and against imaging centers that install nuclear gamma cameras and make them available to physicians in their geographic vicinity. If these competitors are able to win significant portions of our business, our sales will decline. Our Product segment may also suffer a decline in camera sales as a result of the same factors. Our financial condition would be adversely affected under such circumstances. We may incur additional losses due to the downturn in the U.S. economy. Our revenues may be significantly impacted by the downturn in the U.S. economy. The slowing economy may also drive greater pricing pressures from our competition, increase the rate at which we lose business, or lead to disruptions in our supply chain, any of which would impede our ability to become profitable. Further, we cannot assure you that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all positive, improvement in our operating results or cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Because our business is not widely diversified, obsolescence of our current product offerings would seriously harm our business. We sell products and lease our imaging systems and personnel primarily in the nuclear and ultrasound imaging markets. Our nuclear imaging systems may become obsolete or unmarketable if new technologies are introduced to the market or if new industry standards emerge. We may not be able to leverage our assets to diversify our products and services in order to generate revenue beyond the nuclear and ultrasound imaging markets in a timely manner. If we are unable to diversify our product and service offerings, our financial condition may suffer. Our Product segment competes against businesses that have different competitive strengths than we have. The market for nuclear imaging cameras continues to decrease, thereby making competition a greater challenge. Our competition has negatively impacted our sales prices and volume. Some of our competitors enjoy significant advantages over us, including: greater name recognition, greater financial and technical resources, established relationships with healthcare professionals, established distribution networks, and greater resources for product development as well as sales and marketing. Additionally, certain medical device companies are developing alternative portable cameras that directly compete with our product offerings. If we are unable to expand our current market share, our revenues are likely to decline. Our operations are highly dependent upon third-party suppliers and the availability of certain radiopharmaceuticals, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Our personnel and equipment leasing service involves the use of certain radiopharmaceuticals. We have experienced disruptions in the supply of these radiopharmaceuticals, which have caused us to cancel services that would otherwise be provided. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary radiopharmaceuticals, we may be unable to lease our personnel and equipment through DIS, and our business may be harmed. In addition, we rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply certain key components of our products. Alternative sources of production and supply may not be readily available. For example, key components of the detector heads and the processing and control software utilized in our gamma cameras are manufactured or supplied by a single source. We have also outsourced production of significant portions of our end product to a single contract manufacturer. If a disruption in the availability of parts, or in the operations of these suppliers were to occur, our ability to build gamma cameras could be materially affected. For this reason, we have backup plans in place that are designed to prevent delays in production. If these plans are unsuccessful, delays in the production of our gamma cameras for an extended period of time could cause the loss of revenue, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Failure to retain key executives, qualified technologists and sales personnel could limit our growth and adversely affect our business. Our future growth and ability to generate profits will depend in part upon our ability to identify, hire, and retain a new Chief Financial Officer, nuclear medicine technologists, certified cardiographic technicians, ultrasound technologists, and sales personnel. The inability to retain such employees would diminish the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and might delay or prevent the achievement of our objectives. Hiring qualified management and technical personnel will be difficult due to the limited number of qualified candidates and the intense competition for these types of employees. Furthermore, we have historically suffered high employee turnover in regards to imaging technologists. If we are unable to reduce employee turnover, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our quarterly and annual financial results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate from period to period. We have experienced seasonality in the leasing services offered by DIS. While our physicians are obligated to pay us for all lease days to which they have committed, our contracts permit some flexibility in scheduling 12 Table of Contents when services are to be performed. We cannot predict with certainty the degree to which seasonal circumstances such as the summer slowdown, winter holiday vacations and weather conditions will affect the results of our operations. In addition, due to the way that customers in our target markets acquire our products, a large percentage of our camera orders are booked during the last month of each quarterly accounting period. As such, a delivery delay of only a few days may significantly impact our quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Moreover, the sales cycle in our Product segment for our cameras is typically lengthy, which may cause us to experience significant revenue fluctuations. For these reasons, quarterly and annual sales and operating results may vary in the future. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Because of these and other factors, our operating results in one or more future reporting periods may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. A large amount of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders and is thinly traded. A small number of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may sell in the public market. In addition, our common stock is thinly traded and any significant sales of our common stock may cause volatility in our common stock price. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sale may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. We have also registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans. Accordingly, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As a result of their actions or inaction our stock price may decline. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state laws, regulations, and other rules, and if we are unable to comply with such laws, regulations and other rules, we could face substantial penalties. We are directly, or indirectly through our clients, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business including: the federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, other Medicare laws, regulations, rules, manual provisions, and policies that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by us and our DIS customers; the federal False Claims statutes; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA; the Stark Law; the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; federal and state radioactive materials laws; state food and drug and pharmacy laws and regulations; state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians; state scope-of-practice laws; and federal rules prohibiting the mark-up of diagnostic tests to Medicare under certain circumstances. If DIS’ customers are unable or unwilling to comply with these statutes, regulations, rules and policies, utilization rates of our services and products will decline and our business will be harmed. We maintain a compliance program to identify and correct any compliance issues and remain in compliance with all applicable laws, to train employees, to audit and monitor our operations, and to achieve other compliance goals. Like most companies with compliance programs, we occasionally discover compliance concerns. In such cases, we take responsive action including corrective measures when necessary. There can be no assurance that our responsive actions will insulate us from liability associated with any detected compliance concerns. 13 Table of Contents If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws, regulations, rules or policies described above or the other laws or regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal or state health care programs, or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could have a negative impact on us. If we are excluded from federal or state health care programs, our customers who participate in those programs could not do business with us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business, and damage our reputation. Our manufacturing operations and executive offices are located at a single facility that may be at risk from fire, earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters. Our manufacturing operations and executive offices are located at a single facility in Poway, California, near known fire areas and earthquake fault zones. Any future natural disaster could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage to our manufacturing equipment and inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have taken precautions to insure our facilities and continuing operations, this may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. A disaster could significantly harm our business and results of operations. The medical device industry is characterized by litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of our management’s time and efforts, and require us to pay damages which may not be covered by our insurance. Our operations entail risks relating to claims or litigation relating to product liability, radioactive contamination, patent infringement, trade secret disclosure, warranty claims, product recalls, property damage, misdiagnosis, personal injury and death. Any litigation or claims against us, or claims we bring against others, may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business and harm our reputation. We may incur significant liability in the event of any such litigation, regardless of the merit of the action. If we are unable to obtain insurance, or if our insurance is inadequate to cover claims, our cash reserves and other assets could be negatively impacted. Additionally, costs associated with maintaining our insurance could become prohibitively expensive, and our ability to become profitable could be diminished. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. Our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, which include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents, may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination or otherwise invalidated or eventually found unenforceable. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may attempt to challenge or invalidate our patents, or may be able to design alternative techniques or devices that avoid infringement of our patents, or develop products with functionalities that are comparable to ours. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others. 14 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, our Stockholders Rights Plan and Delaware law may prevent or delay removal of current management or a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. The rights issued pursuant to our Stockholder Rights Plan will become exercisable, subject to certain exceptions, the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 15% or more of our common stock. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 