ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE OUR TURNAROUND STRATEGY (THE TURNAROUND) WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT FUTURE EARNINGS. At the end of 2003, we adopted a Turnaround strategy that consisted of three distinct elements. These were: - In 2003, stabilizing AmeriServ and taking immediate steps to eliminate or minimize those risk elements that posed a threat to our survival; - In 2004 and 2005, initiating steps to eliminate the key structural impediments to sustainable, improved earnings; and - Articulating and executing, over the long-term, a strategy centered on community banking and continued expansion of our successful trust business that is intended to produce consistent future earnings. We believe we accomplished the first two elements of the Turnaround. The final element of the Turnaround requires sustained execution of our business plan. If we are unable to achieve the last element of the Turnaround, our financial condition and results of operations will not dramatically improve and may deteriorate. WEAK LOAN GROWTH MAY HINDER OUR ABILITY TO IMPROVE EARNINGS PERFORMANCE. In 2003, our Board of Directors articulated a strategy predicated upon a return to traditional community banking. In order to improve our performance in accordance with this strategy, we must increase our average balance of quality loans. However, our market area is characterized by an aging and declining population base and comparatively slow economic growth. Despite these unattractive fundamentals, our market also is highly competitive. Unless loan originations increase, our earnings performance may not improve to the degree we have planned. AMERISERV OPERATES UNDER LIQUIDITY CONSTRAINTS AND MAY DO SO IN THE FUTURE BECAUSE OF LOSSES AT THE BANK. The payment of dividends by the Bank to us is a primary source of funding for us and is also the principal source of funds for us to pay dividends to our shareholders. Under federal banking law, the Bank may only pay dividends out of accumulated earnings for the current year and the prior two calendar years. Because of the restructuring undertaken in 2005 and 2004, the Bank incurred aggregate losses of $16.6 million, which extended the date on which the Bank's dividend authority could be restored. As a consequence, we have relied on dividends from non-bank subsidiaries, a tax refund, inter-company tax payments, $3.2 million of retained proceeds from the 2004 Offering, and other short-term solutions to provide the cash needed to make interest payments on the debentures. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand at the holding company and from these alternative sources to make dividend payments on the debentures until the Bank's dividend authority is restored, which we believe will occur no later than the first quarter of 2008 if the Bank does not suffer future losses. However, we cannot assure you that the Bank's dividend authority will be restored. Moreover, we have no significant secondary sources of liquidity such as lines of credit. If the Bank's dividend authority is not restored or we are unable to develop meaningful secondary sources of liquidity, we may not be able to improve our liquidity. WE HAVE UNIONIZED EMPLOYEES, WHICH INCREASES OUR COSTS AND MAY DETER ANY ACQUISITION PROPOSAL. The Bank is party to a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America, which represents approximately 61% of our employees. A new three year agreement was executed in October 2004. As a result of provisions in the contract, generally known as work rules, we sometimes cannot take steps that would reduce our operating costs. Furthermore, to our knowledge, we are one of only 13 unionized banking institutions in the United States. The banking industry is a consolidating industry in which acquisitions are frequent. However, some banking institutions may be reluctant to buy a unionized bank because of a perception that operating costs may be higher or that it could result in unionization of its work force. Therefore, our stock price may 13 be adversely affected because investors may conclude that there is a reduced likelihood that we will be acquired or could be an acquiror. A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR TRUST BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON A UNION CLIENT BASE. In an effort to capitalize on the Bank's union affiliation, our Trust Company operates the ERECT Funds and the BUILD Funds that seek to attract investment from union pension funds. These funds then use the investments to make loans on construction projects that use union labor. At December 31, 2005, approximately $370 million was invested by unions in the ERECT and BUILD Funds. This represents approximately 25.8% of the total assets under management held by the Trust Company. Therefore, the Trust Company is dependent on a discrete union client base for a significant portion of its assets under management and its resulting revenue and net income. CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES COULD REDUCE OUR INCOME, CASH FLOWS AND ASSET VALUES. Our income, cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, as well as the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but it also will affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of our investment portfolio. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. BECAUSE OUR OPERATIONS ARE CONCENTRATED IN CAMBRIA AND SOMERSET COUNTIES, PENNSYLVANIA, WE ARE SUBJECT TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THIS AREA, WHICH TYPICALLY LAG BEHIND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN OTHER AREAS. Our loan and deposit activities are largely based in Cambria and Somerset Counties, located in southwestern Pennsylvania. As a result, our financial performance will depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. Economic activity in this geographic market generally lags behind the economic activity in Pennsylvania and the nation. Similarly, unemployment in this market area is typically higher than the unemployment rate in Pennsylvania and the nation. Adverse local economic conditions could cause us to experience an increase in loan delinquencies, a reduction in deposits, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our profitability. WE ARE SUBJECT TO LENDING RISKS. There are risks inherent in making all loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid and changes in the national economy or the economy of our regional market that affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. At December 31, 2005, 59.9% of our net loan portfolio consisted of commercial and commercial mortgage loans, including construction loans. Commercial loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans also are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial mortgage loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans would cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs. OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF OUR ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES IS NOT SUFFICIENT TO ABSORB ACTUAL LOSSES OR IF WE ARE REQUIRED TO INCREASE OUR ALLOWANCE. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses for reasons beyond our control, such as general economic conditions. At December 31, 2005, we had nonperforming assets equal to 0.78% of total loans, and loans held for sale, net of unearned income and other real estate owned. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming assets, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. We 14 may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS WILL DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKET AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our principal service area. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: - Our ability to build upon existing customer relationships and market position; - Competitors' interest rates and service fees; - The scope of our products and services; - The relevance of our products and services to customer needs and demands and the rate at which we and our competitors introduce them; - Satisfaction of our customers with our customer service; and - Industry and general economic trends. If we experience difficulty in any of these areas, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected, which will affect our growth and profitability. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions. As a result, those non-bank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY ASSOCIATED WITH LENDING ACTIVITIES COULD RESULT IN LOSSES. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY GOVERNMENT REGULATION. We are subject to extensive federal and state banking regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect our depositors' funds and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could result in the imposition of limitations on our operations that would adversely impact our operations and could, if capital levels drop significantly, result in our being required to cease operations. Changes in governing law, regulations or regulatory practices could impose additional costs on us or adversely affect our ability to obtain deposits or make loans and, as a consequence, our revenues and profitability. 15 FEDERAL AND STATE BANKING LAWS, OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND OUR BY-LAWS MAY HAVE AN ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECT. Federal law imposes restrictions, including regulatory approval requirements, on persons seeking to acquire control over us. Pennsylvania law also has provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws permit our board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock and additional shares of common stock that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of existing common shareholders. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE CAN BE VOLATILE. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company's stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: - Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; - Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; - News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; - Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; - New technology used, or services offered, by competitors; - Changes in government regulations; and - Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company's stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. THE TRADING VOLUME IN THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK IS LESS THAN THAT OF OTHER LARGER FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANIES. Although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on the National Market System (NASDAQ), the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company's common stock, significant sales of the Company's common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company's stock price to fall. AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK IS NOT AN INSURED DEPOSIT. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commonly referred to as the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this "Risk Factors" section and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved staff comments from the SEC for the reporting period presented. 