Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in PNBC’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation’s business. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K together with all of the other information incorporated by reference before deciding to purchase PNBC common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or deems immaterial may arise or become material in the future and affect PNBC’s business. If any of these risks actually occur, PNBC’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of PNBC common stock could decrease significantly. The allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses decreasing earnings. In determining the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses, management considers, among other things, the overall composition of the loan portfolio, types of loans, past loss experience, loan delinquencies, potential substandard and doubtful loans, underlying collateral, and other factors that, in management’s best judgment, deserve evaluation. Although management monitors the allowance monthly and considers it adequate to absorb probable losses at December 31, 2009, if any of the assumptions are incorrect, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Future adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Corporation to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses resulting in a reduction of earnings. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we do business could adversely affect our business and operating results. 11 Our business could be adversely affected to the extent that weaknesses in business and economic conditions have direct or indirect impacts on us or on our customers and counterparties. These conditions could lead, for example, to one or more of the following: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand for savings and investment products offered by us; and • An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. If the Bank or holding company were unable to borrow funds through access to capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and leases and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the subsidiary bank’s Funds Management Committee and approved annually by the Board of Directors. The Funds Management Committee regularly monitors the overall liquidity position of the Bank and the parent company to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. The Funds Management Committee also establishes policies and monitors guidelines to diversify the Bank’s wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds purchased; securities sold under repurchase agreements; non-core deposits; and medium- and long-term debt. The Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago (FHLB), which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include the sale or securitization of loans, the ability to acquire additional national market, non-core deposits, issuance of additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. The Bank also can apply to borrow from the Federal Reserve’s discount window. Starting in the middle of 2007, there has been significant turmoil and volatility in worldwide financial markets which is, at present, ongoing. These conditions have resulted in a disruption in the liquidity of financial markets, and could directly impact us to the extent we need to access capital markets to raise funds to support our business and overall liquidity position. This situation could affect the cost of such funds or our ability to raise such funds. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. PNBC’s concentration of commercial loans is subject to risks that could adversely affect earnings. PNBC’s commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolio total $443.0 million at December 31, 2009, comprising 55.5% of total loans. The primary risks associated with commercial loans are quality of the borrower’s management and the impact of national and local economic factors. 12 Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the financial condition and results of operations. PNBC’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income. However, certain assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in market interest rates. In a period of changing rates, interest expense may increase at different rates than the interest earned. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest income. The Internal Controls of PNBC may not be effective. Management reviews and tests on a quarterly basis its system of internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance polices and procedures. Any system of internal controls, however well designed, is based on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are actually being met. Any failure or circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. There is competition within the PNBC market areas which may limit growth and profitability. Because the banking business is highly competitive, PNBC faces significant competition both in originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition can not only be affected by the pricing of loans and deposits, but also by the variety of products offered. The ability of the Corporation to continue to grow in the markets served while effectively managing interest rate risk is contingent upon being able to operate in this competitive environment, which ultimately affects the Corporation’s profitability. The success of PNBC is dependent on hiring and retaining key personnel. PNBC’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Corporation relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business and the loss of any of these individuals may adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain and/or manage the business effectively. This could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. PNBC operates in a highly regulated environment. PNBC is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Any changes in the regulations or applicable laws and the failure of the Corporation to comply with any of the regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 