Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, United Community’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. United Community and the Bank have an enterprise risk management program. The Board Compliance and Risk Management Committee provides oversight of the program. The Board also adopted the Corporate Risk Management and Control Policy. The policy provides a framework for risk identification, monitoring and mitigation through a risk assessment process, including reviewing of policies and procedures to enhance the controls and risk management practices at United Community and the Bank. The Officers Risk Management Committee leads this process as part of an ongoing program. The Holding Company Order and the MOU prohibit dividends and restrict certain business activities. United Community’s ability to pay regular quarterly dividends to shareholders depends to a large extent on the dividends received from Home Savings. The MOU prohibits Home Savings from paying dividends to United Community without prior regulatory approval. In addition, the Holding Company Order prohibits United Community from paying dividends to shareholders without prior regulatory approval. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and Home Savings’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. United Community has not paid cash dividends in the past two years. Furthermore, there can be no assurance when dividend payments will resume in the future. 18 Table of Contents Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Dramatic declines in real estate values, along with high unemployment, have disrupted the national credit and capital markets over the last several years. As a result, many financial institutions have had to seek additional capital, merge with larger and stronger institutions, seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection and, in some cases, have been forced into a sale or closure by the bank regulatory agencies. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions, because of concern over the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected and to what extent, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. The reduced availability of credit, the lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to market competitive products and services Further, approximately 81.1% of the loans in Home Savings’ portfolio are secured in whole or in part by real estate. As residential real estate prices have declined since 2008, defaults and foreclosures have increased. Commercial real estate values also have declined, and the owners of many income-producing properties are experiencing declines in their revenue, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans. Foreclosures and resolutions of nonperforming loans require significant personnel resources, and given the number of foreclosures in the courts within our market area, the resolution of foreclosures has slowed significantly. Properties acquired through foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure are taking longer to sell in the current economy, which increases Home Savings expenses for managing, maintaining and insuring real estate owned. If we are unable to sell properties at a price that will cover our expenses as well as the unpaid principal and interest on the loan, the resulting write-downs and losses adversely affect Home Savings net income. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that Home Savings will be unable to collect both the contractual interest payments and the contractual principal payments, as scheduled in the loan agreement. Construction loans generally involve greater underwriting and default risks than loans secured by mortgages on existing properties because construction loans are more difficult to appraise and to monitor. In the event a default on a construction loan occurs and foreclosure follows, we may need to take control of the project and attempt either to arrange for completion of construction or dispose of the unfinished project. Approximately 4.5% of our total loans were construction loans at December 31, 2012. As a result, further deterioration in the portfolio may adversely impact our earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, the money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of available for sale securities, loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of these assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. Increasing credit risks could continue to adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply, declines in real estate value and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of our collateral. In addition, substantial portions of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio where foreclosure rates are among the highest in the nation. Consequently, any further decline in the state’s economy could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, substantial portions of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently any decline in the state’s economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from savings and loan associations, banks, credit unions, mortgage-banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms and insurance companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. In order to compete, Home Savings may need to lower interest rates on its products to match interest rates offered by its competition, which could have a negative impact on net interest margin and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry or our business, financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and are not necessarily intended to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that recent legislation and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions will stabilize the United States banking system and the enactment of these initiatives may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this 10-K under the heading Regulation. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations with significant discretion. Although some of the regulations have been adopted, many still have not, and the effect they will have on United Community will not be known for years. Among the provisions already implemented that have or may have an effect on United Community are the following: • the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) has been formed, which has broad powers to adopt and enforce consumer protection regulations; • the federal law prohibiting the payment of interest on commercial demand deposit accounts was eliminated effective July 21, 2011; • the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer was permanently increased to $250,000, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts had unlimited insurance through December 31, 2012; • the assessment base for determining deposit insurance premiums has been expanded from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity; • public companies in all industries are now required to provide stockholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation; and • the FRB has imposed on financial institutions with assets of $10 billion or more a cap on the debit card interchange fees the financial institutions may charge. Although the cap is not applicable to Home Savings, it may have an adverse effect on Home Savings as the debit cards issued by Home Savings and other smaller banks, which have higher interchange fees, may become less competitive. Additional provisions not yet implemented that may have an effect on United Community are the following: • new capital regulations for bank holding companies will be adopted, which may impose stricter requirements; and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010 will no longer constitute Tier I capital; and • new corporate governance requirements applicable generally to all public companies in all industries will require other new compensation practices and disclosure requirements, including requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, to consider the independence of compensation advisors and to make additional disclosures in proxy statements with respect to compensation matters. 20 Table of Contents As many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been implemented and will require interpretation and rule making, the ultimate effect on United Community cannot yet be determined. However, the implementation of certain provisions have already increased compliance costs and the implementation of future provisions will likely increase both compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possibly restricting the operations of United Community. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Three of the most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan losses, the fair value of real estate owned and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses, sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance or recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses and any loan losses that exceed our reserves would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Material breaches in security of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. Financial institutions are under continuous threat of loss due to cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand customer capabilities to utilize internet and other remote channels to transact business. The most significant cyber–attack risks that we face are e-fraud, denial of service, and loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds directly from customer or our accounts. Loss can occur as a result of negative customer experience in the event of a successful denial of service attack that disrupts availability of our on-line banking services. The attempts to breach sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to us if successful. The Company has security, backup and recovery systems in place and a comprehensive business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be inoperable. The Company also has security in place to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. Third party service providers also are required to maintain similar controls. However, The Company cannot be certain the measures will be successful to prevent a security breach. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking and mobile banking channels, and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. Security breaches also may increase reputational and legal risks, and the Company could experience an increase in expenses or losses resulting from such breaches. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We previously announced on January 11, 2013 that we entered into agreements with investors to sell common and preferred shares and to conduct a rights offering, for a total of approximately $47.0 million in additional capital. This offering will dilute existing shareholders. However, as we experience operating losses, additional capital may need to be infused into Home Savings. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required by our regulators to raise additional capital. Any such capital raises may dilute current shareholders’ ownership interest. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 21 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; the credit history of a particular borrower; changes in economic and industry conditions; and the duration of the loan. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates and real estate values, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising in foreclosure practices, including delays in the foreclosure process related to certain industry deficiencies, as well as potential losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market. Announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large seller/servicer financial institutions in 2010 have raised various concerns relating to mortgage foreclosure practices in the United States. The integrity of the foreclosure process is important to the Company’s business as an originator and servicer of residential mortgages. As a result of the Company’s continued focus of concentrating its lending efforts in its primary markets in Ohio, as well as servicing loans for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Company does not anticipate suspending any of its foreclosure activities. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company reviewed its foreclosure procedures. The results of our review to date have not given rise to any known demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that we reasonably expect to have a material favorable or unfavorable impact on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. We have implemented additional reviews and procedures of pending and future foreclosures to ensure that all appropriate actions are taken to enable foreclosure actions to continue. Nevertheless, the Company could face delays and challenges in the foreclosure process arising from claims relating to industry practices generally, which could adversely affect recoveries and the Company’s financial results, whether through increased expenses of litigation and property maintenance, deteriorating values of underlying mortgaged properties or unsuccessful litigation results generally. 22 Table of Contents In addition, in connection with the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market, the Company makes certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require it to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Although the Company believes that its mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate, it is possible that the Company will receive repurchase requests in the future and the Company may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. It is therefore possible that the Company may increase its reserves or may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people. There are a limited number of qualified persons in our market area with the knowledge and experience required to successfully manage our business. At this time, new senior executives of United Community are required to be approved by the FRB. Suitable candidates for positions may decline to consider employment with the Company given its financial condition and the current regulatory environment. In addition, it may be difficult for us to offer compensation packages that would be sufficient to convince candidates that are acceptable to the Company’s regulators and meet our requirements to agree to become our employee and/or relocate. Our financial condition and the existing uncertainties may result in existing employees seeking positions at other companies where these issues are not present. The unexpected loss of services of other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of a loss of their skills, knowledge of our market and years of industry experience. If the Company is not able to promptly recruit qualified personnel, which the Company requires to conduct our operations, our business and our ability to successfully implement our recovery plan could be affected. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits will increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on corporate checking accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. Beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could have commenced offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. As a result, Home Savings’ interest expense may increase and its net interest margin will be affected since Home Savings offers interest on demand deposits to attract new customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on Home Savings’ business, financial condition and results of operation. Volatility in the economy may negatively impact the fair value of our common shares. The market price for our common shares has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • Announcements of developments related to our business; • Fluctuations in our results of operations; • Sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • General conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • A shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to market expectations; • Our inability to pay dividends; and • Our announcement of other projects. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the availability of such funds in the future could adversely impact our growth strategy and prospects. Home Savings relies on deposits, advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund its banking operations. United Community has no debt outstanding. Although the Company considers its sources of funds to be adequate for its current funding needs, the Company may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to the Company’s shareholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require the Company to pledge some of its assets and enter into covenants that would restrict its ability to incur further indebtedness. Additional financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to the Company or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to it. If additional financing sources are unavailable, not available on reasonable terms or the Company is unable to obtain any required regulatory approval for additional debt, the Company’s growth strategy and future prospects could be adversely impacted. Our ability to pay cash dividends is subject to prior FRB approval. The Holding Company Order prohibits the Company from paying dividends without the FRB’s prior approval. United Community does not know how long this restriction will remain in place. Even if United Community is permitted to pay a dividend, United Community is dependent primarily upon the earnings of Home Savings for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by Home Savings is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. Currently, Home Savings is prohibited by the MOU from paying any dividends to United Community without the prior approval of the FDIC and the Division. In addition, federal law generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter and or continue to be undercapitalized. 23 Table of Contents In addition to our regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends from Home Savings to United Community, U.S. tax laws applicable to Home Savings would cause a taxable recapture of accumulated bad debt reserves of up to $21.1 million to the extent that Home Savings makes a distribution to United Community while Home Savings does not have sufficient tax earnings and profits at the time of such distribution. The income tax liability resulting from such a distribution could be as great as $7.3 million. No deferred tax liability has been recorded for this potential recapture liability. For a further description, refer to Note 14 to our financial statements contained in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Accordingly, until Home Savings restores its tax earnings and profits to an amount sufficient to avoid taxable bad debt reserve recapture upon distributions to United Community, we may be unwilling to approve a dividend from Home Savings to United Community even if Home Savings was otherwise permitted or able to make a dividend to United Community. As of December 31, 2012, the deficit in tax earnings and profits is approximately $10.7 million. Consequently, tax earnings and profits would need to increase by $10.7 million plus the amount of any anticipated distribution before such distribution was paid, in order to avoid any taxable bad debt reserve recapture. Tax earnings and profits is generally increased by taxable income and tax-exempt income and decreased by income taxes payable and non-deductible expenses. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future by United Community will be dependent, in large part, on Home Savings’ ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and its earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. We expect that the recent improvement in our financial condition will result in decreased rates over time. However, any deterioration in our financial condition could result in elevated FDIC premiums, which would only further negatively impact earnings. In addition, any further increases in FDIC assessment rates and/or special FDIC assessments would negatively impact our earnings and could offset any reduction that we anticipate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 